


 Chapter 0: 什么是积极心理学？


各位 早上好
Hi Good morning. 很高兴能回到这里
It's wonderful to be back here. 很高兴见到你们
Wonderful to see you here. 我教授这门课是因为
I'm teaching this class 在我读本科阶段时
because I wish a class like this had been taught 非常希望能学习这样一门课程
when I was sitting in your seat as an undergrad here. 可能这门课并不是你希望的那样
This does not mean it is a class you wish to be taught, 也可能并不适合你
nor does it mean that it is the right class for you. 但希望几堂课后 你能有个大概印象
But I hope to doing the next couple of lectures is giving you an idea what this class is about 让你决定这门课是否适合你
so that you can decide whether or not it is for you. 我1992年来到哈佛求学
I came here in 1992 大二期间 突然顿悟了
And then I had a mini epiphany half way through my sophomore year. 我意识到我身处让人神往大学校园
I realized that I was in a wonderful place 周围都是出色的同学 优秀的导师
with wonderful students around me, wonderful teachers. 我成绩优异
I was doing well academically. 擅长体育运动
I was doing well in athletics. 我当时在校队打壁球
i was playing varsity squash at the time. 社交也游刃有余
I was doing well socially. 一切都很顺利
Everything was going well. 除了一点
Except for the fact. 我不快乐
That I was unhappy. 而且我不明白为什么
And I didn't understand why. 也就是在那时
It was then in a matter of moments, 我决定要找出原因 变得快乐
that I decided that I had to find out why and become happier. 于是我将研究方向
And that was when I switched my concentration 从计算机科学转向了哲学及心理系
from computer science to philosophy and psychology 目标只有一个
with a single question: 如何变得更快乐?
how can I become happier? 渐渐地 我的确变得更快乐了
Over time I did become happier. 主要因为我接触了一个新的领域
What contributed most to my happiness was when I encountered a new emerging field 那时并未正式命名
that at that time didn't have the name that it has today. 但本质上属于积极心理学范畴
But essentially research that falls under or within the field of positive psychology. 研究积极心理学
Positive psychology, studying it, 把其理念应用到生活中 让我无比快乐
applying the ideas to my life has made me significantly happier. 而且这种快乐继续着
It continues to make me happier. 于是我决定将其与更多的人分享
And it was when I realized the impact that it had on me that I decided to share it with others. 选择教授这门学科
That's when I decided that I wanted to be a teacher and teach in this field. 这就是积极心理学
So this is positive psychology, 1504号心理学课程
psychology 1504. 我们将一起探索这一全新
And we'll be exploring this new, 相对新兴 令人倾倒的领域
relatively new and fascinating field. 希望同时还能探索我们自己
And hopefully, we will be exploring more than the field ourselves. 我第一次开设这门课程 是在2002年
When I first taught this class that was back in 2002, 是以讨论会的形式 只有8名学生
I taught it at a seminar and had eight students. 两名退出了
Two dropped out. 只剩我和其他六个人
That left me with six. 一年后
The year after, 学生稍微多了一点
the class became slightly larger. 有300多人参加
I had over three hundred students. 到了第三年 也就是上一次开课
And then third year when I taught it which was the last time, 有850人参加
I had 850 students in the class, 是当时哈佛人数最多的课程
making it at that point the largest course at Harvard. 这引起了媒体的关注
And that's when the media became interested. 因为他们想知道为什么
Because they wanted to understand why. 他们对这一奇特现象非常好奇
They wanted to understand this phenomenon that "here you have a class, "竟然有比经济学导论更热门的课程
that's larger than Introduction to Economics". 怎么可能呢?"
How could that be? 于是我被请去参加各类媒体采访
So I was invited by the media for interviews, 报纸 广播 电视
whether it was newspapers, radio, television. 从这些采访中 我发现了一种有趣的模式
And I started to notice a pattern during those interviews. 我前去参加采访
So I would walk into the interview. 进行采访
We would have the interview. 结束后 制片人或主持人会送我出来
And afterwards, the producer or the interviewer would walk me out 说些诸如"Tal 多谢你抽空参加采访
and say something to the effects of "well thank you Tal for the interview. "不过你跟我想象的不太一样"的话
But you know I expected you to be different". 我漫不经心地问
And I would ask, as nonchalant as I could of course. 我无所谓 不过总得回应
I didn't really care but had to ask anyway, "有何不同?" 他们会说
"how different?" And they would say, "这个嘛 我们以为你很外向"
"Well you know, we expected you to be more outgoing." 下一次采访 结束时仍是如此
Next interview, the end of the interview, same thing. "多谢接受采访
"Thank you for doing the interview. "不过Tal 你跟我想象得不太一样"
But you know Tal, I expected you to be different." 又一次 我漫不经心地问
And once again, nonchalant of course. "有何不同?"
would ask"how different?" 她说
And she would say, "这个嘛 我们没想到你会这么内向"
"Well you know, we expected you to be less, less itrovert." 下一次采访 仍是如此
Next interview, same thing. "有何不同?"
"How different?" "这个嘛 更开朗 更外向"
"Well, you know, more extroverted. More outgoing." 下一次采访 "这个嘛 太害羞了"
Next interview. "Well, you know, less shy." 因为采访中我容易紧张
Coz I get very nervous in interviews. 差不多有几十次采访
Interview after interview, literally dozens. 每次都是"好交际 更开朗"
More outgoing, more cheerful. "不含蓄 更外向"
Less introverted, more extroverted. 诸如此类
And on and on. 最绝的一次
But here is the best one. 是波士顿一家地方台
So this is one of the local channels here around Boston. 我去参加采访
I was going to the interview. 聊了很多
We had a quite long interview, 我觉得进行得不错
which I thought was actually pretty good. 采访结束
And at the end of the interview, 主持人是个热情开朗的男生
the interviewer is a very jolly guy. 他送我出门 拍着我的肩说
He walks me out and puts his hands on my shoulder, "多谢接受我们采访"
and says, "thank you very much for doing the interview." 然后又是那句
And then the usual comes. "不过 Tal 你跟我想象得不太一样"
"But you know Tal, I expected you to be different." 我问
And I said, "有何不同" 你要知道
"How different?" Just so you understand, 那时候 我已经完全被打击了
by this time, my self-esteem is short. 不过我还是漫不经心地问
But still with some resemblance of nonchalance I asked, "有何不同?"
"how different?" 他看着我说
And he looks at me and says, "我也说不上 Tal 我以为你会更高些"
"Well I don't know Tal. I expected you to be taller." 更高些?什么?
Taller? What? 1米70...是1米69不够格传授快乐吗
Five seven, well ok five six and a half is not enough to teach happiness? 我考虑了很久 仔细思量了
And I thought about it. I thought about it a lot. 整件事从头到尾
The whole pattern from the beginning. 我似乎明白为什么他们期望不同了
And I think I understand why they expected someone different. 因为他们要说服自己 说服观众
You see they had to explain to themselves as well as the audience, "这门课怎么会比经济学导论更热门?"
"how come this lecture is larger than the Introduction to Economics?" 唯一的解释就是
And the way to explain it must be that 导师非常外向
the teacher is very outgoing, 充满领袖气质
extremely charismatic, 乐观开朗 当然了 还很高
very cheerful and extrovert and of course, tall. 可惜我的名字少了一个L
Well, there is one L missing there. 但是
But... 是啊
Yeah. 真可惜
If only. 所以问题是
So the problem though is 他们找答案找错了地方
that they were looking in the wrong place for the explanation. 也就是说 他们不该关注信息传达者
In other words, they were looking at the messenger. 而应该关注信息本身
What they needed to look at was the message. 我怎么知道的呢
Now how do I know that? 因为我参与过其他大学积极心理学课
You see because I see other positive psychology classes on other campuses 遍及全国 乃至全球
around the country and around the world. 美国有超过200所大学开设了本课程
There are over 200 hundred campuses here in United States that teach positive psychology. 而且几乎其中所有院校 这门课
On almost every campus where this class is taught, 都是参与人数最多的或者最多的之一
it's either one of the or the largest class. 信息是关键
It's about the message. 越来越多的机构组织开设这门课
I see more and more organizations taking up positive psychology in their, 还有咨询公司
as consultant companies, 其中一些甚至是全球知名咨询公司
some of them the leading big consultant companies are taking it on. 越来越多的中学开始引入积极心理学
More and more high schools are introducing positive psychology class. 小学也是
Elementary schools are introducing it. 各国政府都对这一新领域表现出兴趣
The governments around the world are expressing interest in this new emerging field. 为什么?因为它有效
Why? Because it works. 它的的确确有效
Because it really works. 殷盛人生 快乐 幸福感这一整个领域
You see this whole realm on life flourishing, 在此之前一直被心理自助运动统治
on happiness, on well-being has been until recently dominated by the self-health movement. 心理自助运动带来了什么
What do we have in the self-health movement? 生动有趣
We have books that are very interesting, 通俗易懂的书籍
that are very accessible. 热情外向的宣讲者
We have speakers who are very outgoing, 颇具领袖气质 且身材高大
very charismatic and tall, 吸引大众参与他们的专题讨论讲座
attracting the masses into these workshops, seminars and lectures. 但是 有一个大大的转折
But, there is a very big "but" here. 其中许多书籍讨论都缺少实质内容
Many of these books, many of these workshops and seminars lack substance. 通常都言过其实 无法兑现
Very often, overpromising and under-delivering. 比如 快乐的五个关键
So these are five things you need to know to be happy. 成功领袖的三个要素
The three things to be the great leader. 成功 快乐 完美爱情的唯一秘诀
The one secret of success, happiness and a perfect love life. 夸大其词 效果甚微
Overpromising. Under-delivering. 再来说说学术界
On the other hand, we have academia. 学术界给我们带来了什么
What do we have in academia? 大量精确的实质内容
We have a lot of rigor, a lot of substance. 数据被一而再 再而三地反复分析
We have datas analyzed, reanalyzed and meta-analyzed. 行之有效的好东西
Things that actually work, good stuff. 但是 又有一个大大的转折
But, and there is also a very big "but" here. 很少有人会阅读专业学术期刊
Very few people read refereed academic journals. 想想看 这间教室之外有多少人
I mean Think about it: how many people outside this room of course 读过最近12期《个性与社会心理学》杂志?
have read the last twelve issues of the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology? 大多数人甚至不知道那是什么东西
Most people don't even know what that means. 我博士班的主任估算过
The head of my PHD programs actually estimated the average academic journal article 学术期刊上的一篇论文平均只有7人阅读
is read by seven people. 这话...
You know... 其中还包括作者的母亲
And that includes the author's mother. 这话虽然是半开玩笑 但其实很可悲
So you know I say half in jest but it's actually really sad. 因为...作为学者 我觉得很可悲
Because...certainly sad for me, as an academic. 因为这些论文都非常精彩
Because these things are good. 非常重要
They are important. 能大有作为
These things make a difference, 甚至不仅仅是作为
can even make more of a difference. 但是对大众来说晦涩难懂
But not accessible to most people. 所以我们需要积极心理学
And this is where positive psychology comes in. 需要这门课程
And this is also where this class comes in. 积极心理学及本课程的宗旨非常明确
The explicit mandate of positive psychology as well as of this class 就是要在象牙塔及大众间构建桥梁
is to create a bridge between Ivory tower and mainstreet. 换句话说 就是要把严谨
In other words, it is to bring the rigor, 实质 经验基础
the substance, the empirical foundation, 学术科学
the science from academia 与自助或新纪元运动的通俗易懂相结合
and merge it with accessibility of the self-help or New Age movement. 充分发挥两者所长
In a way the best of both worlds. 这也是积极心理学大受欢迎的原因:
And this explains the popularity of the field of positive psychology: 有用的科学
science that works. 本课程将分为两个部分
This class will be taught on two levels. 第一部分会和其他心理学
The first level it will be taught as any other class in psychology 或者其他任何课程一样
or any of the classes you've taken here. 我将向你们介绍相关知识
You'll be introduced here to studies, 调查研究 严谨的学术作品
to research, to rigorous academic work. 需要你们撰写报告 学术论文
You'll be writing paper, academic paper. 参加考试
You'll be taking exams. 跟其他课程一样
Just like every other class. 而教学内容的另一部分
But then it will also be taught at the second level, 你们读每一篇论文
which is for every paper that you'll read, 写每一篇论文时
every paper that you'll write, 都需要思考
you'll always be thinking, 如何把这些理念运用到生活中去
"Ok, how can I take these ideas and apply them to my life? 运用到恋爱中去
How can I apply them to my relationship? 运用到社交圈里去
How can I apply them to my community?" 就是这两个部分
Two levels. 学术与应用
The academic. Applied. 无论是论文还是讲座 我不会因为
I did not just introduce whether it's in the readings or in the lectures ideas 某个理论有趣而去介绍它
just because they are interesting for the sake of the idea. 而是因为这个理论严谨且能被应用
It is always an idea that is both rigorous and can be applied. 再唠叨几句题外话
Just a few words about housekeeping. 有几个问题课前就有人问我了
Some of the questions that I have already received from you before the class started. 不幸的是这学期将是我最后一次
So this, unfortunately, 在哈佛开设积极心理学或其他课程
is the last time that I am teaching positive psychology or any other class for that matter at Harvard. 但愿两年内 明年可能性不大
Hopefully within two years, probably not next year, 但是两年内
but within two years, 学校会再次开设积极心理学课程
there will be positive psychology class offered, 但我无法保证
but I certainly cannot guarantee it. 关于反馈与提问
About feedback and questions. 如果你有任何问题或不明白的地方
If you have any questions, anything that's not clear, 如果你同意或反对什么观点
if you agree or disagree with something, 请给我或助教写邮件
email me or email your TF (Teaching Fellow at Harvard, just like TA at other schools) 我们一定会回复的
and we'll always respond. 如果某个问题问的人数较多
Sometimes if the question is asked by enough people, 我们会公开回答
we'll respond to it publicly. 当然一定是匿名的
Always anonymously. 除非你特别注明可以提及你的名字
Unless you specified specifically that your name can be mentioned. 有时候讲座过程中 突然有紧急情况
Sometimes you may be listening to a lecture and then half way through it there is an emergency. 有什么非问不可的问题
There is something that you really have to ask, 无法等待
something that cannot wait. 如果那样的话 请直接举手
In that case, please just put your hand up. 因为就跟你要去厕所一样
Coz it's just like when you have to go to the bathroom. 无法忍耐
Just can't stop. 无法等待
Can't wait. 要去
And when you gotta go, 就去
you gotta go. 我们会为此进行积极心理休息
So we'll take a positive psychology break for that. 所以大可以打断我 我会回答任何问题
And just stop me half way through and I'll answer any question. 所有幻灯片以及课程视频都会放在网上
All the power points, as well as the videos of the classes will be online. 课后几天就能下载
Will be available within couple of days. 幻灯片其实课前就能下载
Well the power points will be available before, 这样你上课时就能用到
say for this lecture it will be before so that you can use them in class. 可惜视频不能提前提供 我们试了
The videos, unfortunately, cannot be made available before. We tried. 但效果不好
Couldn't figure it out. 所以会在课后一两天内放到网上
So it will be available within a day or two after. 这样做的原因
And the reason why they are up there. 首先 我当然更希望你们出席课程
First of all, I do prefer that you attend lecture. 能出现在课堂里
I do prefer that you are physically here. 和大家一起 在课堂的气氛中学习
You get things in the energy of the room with so many students 而不是仅仅对着电脑
so you wouldn't just get from your computer. 我之所以把资料放在网上是为了
The reason why I do put them up is so that you have the opportunity 让你们可以重温或者学习错过的课程
if you want to see it again or if you have to miss a class. 这很正常
That's perfectly fine. 另一个原因
And also because, 之所以提前提供幻灯片
and this is also the reason why the power points are always available, 我希望你们能充分理解材料
I want you to be engaged in the material. 充分参与课堂讨论
I want you to be engaged in whatever it is that we are discussing in class. 而不是忙于记录我说的每一个字
Not necessarily thinking about getting down every word that I say on paper, 记住每一个词 背诵每一句话
remembering everything, memorizing everything. 我不希望你们被动地记录
I want you to take rather than passive notes of writing down 幻灯片上的内容或者我说的话
what is on the power point or every word that I say. 而是要主动记录
I'd like you to take active notes. 也就是要充分理解材料
And that means being engaged with the material. 比如 如果你们听到某个理论 觉得
For example, if you heard something and idea and you say, "挺有趣的"
"Oh, that's interesting." 标上星号 写下来
Star it. Write it down. 或者觉得"也许我可以应用这点"
Or "Ok I think I'll start applying this." 那就写下来
Write it down. 或者"跟我妈妈讲讲"
"Or I want to tell my mom about this later." 或者"跟我室友队友讲讲"
Or "I want to talk to my roommates or my team about this idea." 那就写下来
Write it down. 主动笔记与被动笔记有两方面不同
Active note-taking is opposed to passive note-taking for two reasons. 首先 正如我刚才说的
First of all, as I said, 这门课是关于如何改变生活
this class is a class about making a difference in people's lives. 我不会仅为了学术之美而教授此课
I would not be teaching the class just for its academic beauty, 虽然这一领域的确有许多学术之美
although there is a lot of academic beauty in this field. 所以发现可以实际运用的 就写下来
So write down if you have an idea that you think you can apply. 第二个原因是 你会记住更多
The second reason why we should that is because you'll remember more. 主动参与 集中注意 更好地理解材料
Better attention, better understanding of the material if you are actively engaged, 而不是被动做笔记
as opposed to just taking down passive notes. 在这整个课程中
Throughout the class, 从下周开始
starting next week, 我们将进行我所说的
we'll take what I called, "练习时间" 而不是"休息时间"
"time-ins" as opposed to "time-outs". 其实类似"休息时间"
it's like a time-out. 这段时间会我们停止课程 进行内省
It's the time where we stop the class and you look inward. 也就是课堂上的安静时刻
And this is literally a time of silence in a class. 我会停一两分钟
I will stop for a minute or two. 你们可以盯着我或者周围人发呆
And you'll have a chance either to just stare at me or anyone else, 或者思考一下之前讨论的内容
or think about what we've just discussed, 或者解答我提出的提示问题
or have a guiding question that I will provide you that you'll address during the class. 之所以进行"练习时间"
The reason why I have "Time-ins"... 这是今年新提出的
This is something that I am introducing this year for the first time. 上学期并没有
We didn't have it last time. 因为上次课程结束后到现在的两年
It's because over the last two years since I last taught it, 我做了大量关于安静的研究
I've done a lot work in the area of silence. 关于安静时刻的重要性 无论是课堂里
I've read a lot of research in this area about the importance of quiet times whether it's in a class, 讲座里 还是家中
in a lecture, whether it is at home, 无论是对公司领导
whether it is for a leader in the business, 爱情关系 甚至学龄前儿童
for relationship, for children starting from pre-schools. 你们中很多人
Now many of you, 在经历"练习时间"时可能会疑惑
as you are going through these "time-ins" if you decide to take this class may think, "我一年付四万美金就是为了这个?"
"Well, is this what I'm paying 40,000 dollars a year for? "坐在教室里发呆?"
To sit a class and be quiet?" 首先 每次只有一两分钟
First of all, it will only be a minute or two at a time, 一堂课最多不超过两次
maybe once or twice a lecture. 第二 这可能是
But second, 你从本课程中学到的最重要的东西
it is maybe the most important thing you'll take from this class. 即享受安静这一理念
The notion of embracing stillness. 我来读一段麻省理工两位教授的研究
Let me read to you an excerpt from a study that was run by two MIT professors. 我所提到名字不会出现在幻灯片上
By the way, all the names that I read and that are not on the power points, 不必背诵或记录
you don't need to remember or write down. 只是为了启发你们
This is just for your edification. David Foster和Matthew Wilson教授
So David Foster and Matthew Wilson. 都来自麻省理工大学
Both of them are from MIT. 他们研究证实了"练习时间"的重要性
Indeed the following study that I think confirms the importance of "time-in", 开始内省的时间
time to look inside. 他们在老鼠处在迷宫中及脱离迷宫后
What they did is they scanned the brains of rats 分别对它们进行了脑扫描
while they were in a maze and after they went through the maze. 以下是他们的发现
And here's what they found. 实验结果表明 当某种经历正在进行时
"What the results suggest is that while there certainly is some record of your experience 即老鼠进行迷宫时
as it is occurring. in other words when they were doing the maze, 真正的学习阶段
the actual learning – 是当你尝试分辨
when you try to figure out: 什么才是重要的 什么舍弃什么保留
'What was important? What should I keep and throw away?' 这些发生在经历之后
– that happens after the fact, 进行安静的自省时
during periods of quiet wakeful introspection. 他们的实验表明
What they show was rats who went through the maze 接连不断反复进入迷宫的老鼠
and went through the maze again and again, 比进行一次迷宫后
learned far less than rats who took time aside, 稍事放松 来点小酒的老鼠
chilled out a little bit after a maze, 学到的少得多
had more margarita. 经历 享受安静
Experience, embrace stillness. 这很能说明问题 对人类也一样
This has implications and they showed implications to human beings as well. 不仅仅是实验小白鼠
Not only those of the rat race, 所有人类都是
all human beings. 他们认为"重现可能形成一种学习记忆机制"
So what they say is that "replay might constitute a general mechanism of learning and memory". 包括学习 理解
Both learning, understanding, 记忆 保留
as well as memory, retention. 当我们思考时 我们重放素材时
When we reflect, when we replay the material, 更容易保留
we are much more likely to retain, 记住之前的经历
to remember what we have just been through. 所以休息时间的重要性不能被忽视
So the importance of time aside cannot be over-emphasized. Parker Palmer在他的教学著作
In his wonderful book of teaching, 《教学的勇气》一书中
Parker Palmer-- it's called The Courage to Teach, 提到了以下一段话
says the following-- 语言不是教学的唯一媒介
Words are not the sole medium of exchange in teaching and learning. 安静同样可以进行教育
We educate with silence as well. 安静让我们有机会反省我们所说所闻
Silence gives us a chance to reflect on what we have said and heard. 在真正的教育中
In authentic education, 安静为学生进行内省提供可靠环境
silence is treated as a trustworthy matrix for the inner work students must do, 是一种最深层次的学习媒介
a medium for learning of the deepest sort." 而安静恰恰是我们文化所缺失的
Silence is something that is missing from our culture. 很多人可能读过《万里任禅游》
I know that many of you have probably read Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, 作者Robert M Pirsig
Robert M. Pirsig. 还写过另一本书
He had a second book out, 没那么知名 叫《寻找莱拉》
less well-known, called Lila (Lila: an Inquiry into Morals). 这本书是对印第安人的人类学研究
And Lila is an anthropological study of Native Americans. 将他们的文化与美国传承的欧洲文化进行对比
What he does there is compare their culture to Americans' from European ancestry. 两种文化最突出的特点之一是
And one of the distinguishing characteristics between these two cultures 印第安人崇尚安静
is their approach were silence. 他发现和印第安人坐在一起
What he found was when he went and sat around with Native Americans. 他们围坐在篝火边两三个小时
They would sit around the fire and hang out for two, 一句话也没说
three hours without saying a word. 只是坐在那儿
Just sit around. 看着对方
Look at one another. 微笑 享受美好时光
Smile. Have a good time. 内省
Introspect. 就这样几个小时
Just be there for hours. 他指出 在我们文化中沉默
While he points out that in our culture we feel very uncomfortable with the absence of words, 让人不适
with the absence of sound or noise. 我们试图打破沉默
We have to fill up all the gaps. 这是一项重要的文化差异
This is an important cultural difference. 我们为缺乏安静付出了代价
And we pay a price for this lack of stillness. 我们会重点讨论这一代价
A price that we'll talk about a lot, 涉及到恋爱
when I talk about relationships, 美德与道德
when I talk about virtue and morality 以及快乐与幸福感
and when we talk about happiness and wellbeing in general. 下面介绍一下积极心理学的背景
Let me give a little bit background on positive psychology: 它是如何诞生的 这门课是如何诞生的
how we came about and how this class came about. 从很多方面来说 积极心理学是
In many ways, positive psychology is the brainchild, 人本主义心理学的产物和衍生
the product and the grandchild of humanistic psychology. 人本主义心理学本质上是
What we have in humanistic psychology is essentially a reaction 对当时各种心理学派系的不同意见
to the existing psychologies of the time. 人本主义心理学的创始人
The founders, considered the founders of humanistic psychology 称之为心理学上的"第三势力"
in fact called it "the third force". 为什么是"第三势力"
Why the "third force"? 因为第一势力是行为主义
Because the first force was behaviorism. 代表人物有斯金纳
The work of Skinner (B. F. Skinner), 华生
the work of Watson (John B. Watson), 桑代克
the work of Thorndik (Edward Thorndik). 这是第一势力
This was the first force. 第二势力是精神分析学
The second force was psychoanalysis. 创建者包括弗洛伊德 荣格以及阿德勒
The work of Freud (Sigmund Freud), Jung (Carl Jung), Adler (Alfred Adler) to some extent. 这是第二势力
This was the second force. 第三势力
And the third force, 人本主义心理学作为对其的异议出现
humanistic psychology came as a reaction to it. 首先是对行为主义的异议
First it is a reaction to behaviorism. 行为主义认为人的主体性
Behaviorism looks at the human entity, 认为人是一个行为集合
at the person as basically a collection of behaviors as a box, 就像一只被击打而四处滚动的台球
like a billiard ball knocked around by reinforcements, 被增强 奖惩驱动
by punishment, by reward. 而人本主义心理学认为
And what humanistic psychology said was that 我们不只是被击打的台球
we are much more than a billiard ball being knocked around. 我们有精神 有灵魂
We have spirit. We have a soul. 我们有重要的认知与思想
We have cognitions and thoughts that matter. 不能只靠行为观察 改善人生
It's not just behavior that is important for understanding as well as improving life. 然后是第二势力精神分析学
And then psychoanalysis, the second force. 精神分析学主要通过潜意识分析
The psychoanalysis is about basically understanding mostly through the subconscious: 它决定你的理解
that's how you understand it; 决定如何改善生活
that's how you improve the quality of life. 还有防卫机制
There are defense mechanisms, 人类本能论 神经症
there are biological instincts, neurosis-- 如果你理解这些黑暗势力
and if you understand these very often dark forces, 就能更好地处理生活
were better able to deal with life: 了解并改善生活质量
understand as well as improve the quality of life. 人本主义心理学认为人类不止如此
Humanistic psychology says human beings are much more than that. 不仅仅是生理本能
Much more than biological instincts, 不仅仅是神经症
much more than neurosis, 不仅仅是牛顿学说世界里的台球
much more than the person who exists in a Newtonian reality like a billiard ball. 我们要重视人的本质
We need to value much more the human being. 给予人更多的自尊和自由
We need to give much more dignity and freedom to the person. 但有一个问题
There was a problem. 人本主义心理学缺少严谨的方法论
The problem was humanistic psychology is said lacked the rigorous methodology. 但它引入了许多精彩的理念
While it brought in many wonderful ideas, 对于幸福感的研究
talked about the study of well-being, 乐观主义的研究
talked about the study of optimism, 善良 道德 美德
of kindness, of morality, of virtue, 爱 两性关系 巅峰体验
of love, of relationships, of peak experiences, 自我实现 移情
of self-actualization, of empathy. 这些精彩的概念都会在本学期探讨
All these wonderful concepts that we'll talk about throughout the semester. 它的认识论并不严谨
It wasn't as rigorous about its epistemology, 如何形成理念 如何学习
about how we form ideas and how we learn. 所以在很多方面 大部分
And that's why, in many ways, largely, 不完全但大部分成为了自助运动
not completely but largely more of into the self-health movement. 有趣 有益 重要的理念
Interesting ideas, good ideas, important ideas, 意图当然是好的
certainly good intentions, 但就某种程度上
but to some extent, 缺乏学术严谨性
without the academic rigor. 所以它在学术上影响很小
And that's why it lacked the impact on academia. 所以很少有大学开设人本主义心理学
That's why we don't have partly any humanistic psychology classes offered in universities today. 几乎没有
There are very few still around. 所以本质上成为了新纪元运动
And this is why also a lot of it became the New Age essentially. 但是
But still, 我们很快会了解到 人本主义心理学
it's humanistic psychology that has in many ways fathered and mothered, 孕育了积极心理学
as we'll see, positive psychology. 然我们先见见祖父祖母
So let's meet the grandparents. 比如Rollo May和Carl Rogers
People like Rollo May. People like Carl Rogers. 还有最著名的Abraham Maslow
And more than anyone, Abraham Maslow. 曾是美国心理学会主席
Was the American Psychological Association President. 布兰迪斯大学教授
Was the professor just down the road here at Brandeis (Brandeis University). 他于1954年提出了人本主义心理学
And he introduced this humanistic psychology in 1954. 他写了一章《为了积极心理学》
He wrote a chapter, called "Toward the Positive Psychology". 1954年 他在其中写到 我们需要研究
1954. In it he said we need to also research kindness, 善良 美德 快乐与乐观
goodness and happiness and optimism. 可以说这是超前于他时代的
In many ways it was way ahead of his time. 如果说Maslow是祖父
Then if Maslow is the grandfather, 那Karen Horney就是祖母了
then Karen Horney is the grandmother. 她最初是精神分析学者
Initially a psychoanalyst, 学习弗洛伊德的理论
trained through the works of Freud, 意识到其过于注重消极面
she realized the focuses had been too much on the negative-- 神经症 精神病 她认为
on neurosis, on psychosis and said we also, 还必须关注影响人类生命体的东西
not only but also have to focus on what is working on human organism. 我们需要研究培养那些好的品质
We have to work and look at the fine qualities and cultivate those. 因为它们也是我们的一部分
Because part of being human is being those things as well. 反而向人本主义靠近了 并由此产生了
In many ways, brought about the movement toward humanistic psychology and through that-- 积极心理学
positive psychology. 还有Aaron Antonovsky
Aaron Antonovsky, 第三位祖父级人物
the third person I would consider the grandfather, 提出了关注健康的理念
brought in the idea of focusing on health. 他提出了一个新概念
He has a new concept. 或者说他引进了一个新概念
Or he introduced a new concept. 我还在 别担心
I'm still here. Don't worry. 他引进了一个新概念 他称之为
He introduced a new concept, which he called-- 他个人创造的新词
his own neologism, 健康本源学
"salutogenesis". 由两部分组成 saluto健康 geneis起源
Salutogenesis: saluto--(which is) health; geneis (which is) origin. 健康的起源
The origin of health. 这是病理学常规模型的
And this was an alternative model, 替代模型
to the conventional ways model of pathologies. 也就是说除了研究病理学
So instead of just studying pathologies 无论是生理健康 还是心理健康
whether it's in physical health or psychological health, 还需要研究健康的起源
we should also study the origin of health. 这也是预防医学所关注的
In many ways that is what prevented medicine is about. 这在1970年代 是一个全新的理念
So this was a novel idea back in 1970s when he introduced it. 我们会仔细讨论Aaron Antonovsky
And we'll talk a lot about Aaron Antonovsky. 现在转到父辈
Now the parents. Martin Seligman被认为是积极心理学之父
Martin Seligman, considered the father of the positive psychology, 与一群相关学者
network of scholars, 于1998年确立了这一领域
started the field in 1998. 和马斯洛一样 也是美国心理协会会长
Like Maslow, he too, was the President of American Psychological Association. 他任职期间的首要任务
And as his mandate, during his presidency, 是实现两个目标
he had two aims: 第一 让学院式心理学变得通俗
the first aim-- to make academic psychology more accessible, 也就是说
-- in other words-- 连接起象牙塔与普罗大众
bridge Ivory tower and mainstream. 这是他任职期间的第一目标
This was the first aim of his presidency. 第二 是引进一个积极的心理学
The second aim was introduce a positive psychology. 需要着眼于有用的东西
A psychology that will look at also things that work, 不仅仅是研究
that were not just study-- 抑郁 焦虑 精神分裂 神经症
depression, anxiety, schizophrenia and neurosis. 还需要关注
A psychology a network of scholars who will focus on 爱 两性关系 自尊
-- love, relationships, self-esteem, 动机 恢复以及幸福感
motivation, resilience and well-being. 他提出了这些理念
And he introduced these ideas 从那时起便蓬勃发展起来
and it's all been literally uphill from then. 在Martin Seligman之前
Before Martin Seligman, 都发生在1998年 下次我们会详谈
this all happened in 1998 and we'll talk about it a little bit more next time. 这都诞生于1998年
This all  happened in 1998. 而早在1998年前
Long before 1998, Ellen Langer教授就已研究了这些领域
our very own professor Ellen Langer did research in all these areas, 将人本主义精神与学术科学严谨性结合
bringing the humanistic spirit and combining it with the academic scientific rigor. 我们对她的讨论会比对其他人多
We'll be talking probably more than any other scholar about her work in this class. 还有一位哈佛的教授
And another person from Harvard, 积极心理学的另一位父辈 Philip Stone
one of the parents of positive psychology was Philip Stone, 两年前的昨天去世了
who passed away two years ago, yesterday. 两位都是我的物理学导师
Both Langer and Stone were my physicist advisors, 带我进入了积极心理学领域的研究
introduced me to the field of positive psychology into this research. 1998年我第一次参加积极心理学峰会
In 1998 when I had the first positive psychology summit, Stone教授带我同去
Professor Stone took me along with him. 我那时在攻读硕士学位
I was a graduate student. 1999年 他首次在哈佛开设了本课程
In 1999 he taught the first positive psychology class at Harvard, 在全球范围内也是首批
one of the first in the world. 我是他的教研员
I was his teaching fellow. 两年后 他又重新开设了课程
A couple of years later, he taught it again. 我仍旧担任教研员
Again I was his teaching fellow. 后来我毕业了
And then when I graduated, 他提议我接手他的课程
he suggested I take over his class. 直到今天
And here we are today. 这就是1504号心理学课程
So this is 1504. 我再来讲讲...
Let me give you a sense of, 接下来的半小时
in the next half an hour and so, 我会向你们介绍下这门课的内容
a sense of what you expect in this class. 首先 这门课不光是传授信息
The first thing is this class is not just about information, 而且关于如何变形 显而易见
it is also explicitly about transformation. 这是什么意思
What do I mean by that? 如今大多数教育都只是传达信息
You see most of education today is about information. 什么是信息
What is information? 比如 我们有一个容器
So we have a container, 也就是我们的思想
which is our mind. 信息就是接收数据
And information is about taking data, 接收科学 接收信息 储存到容器里
taking science, taking information and putting it inside the form. 这就是信息
That is information. 等容器填满了
Now when this form is filled, 我们就毕业了
that's when we are educated. 信息数据越多越好
More information, more data, better. 这还不够
Not enough. 因为信息无法决定我们的幸福感
Because it's not just information that determines our wellbeing, 我们的成功 自尊 动机水平
our success, our self-esteem, our motivational level, 两性关系及其质量
the relationship and the quality of our relationships. 光有信息还不够
It's much more than information. 变形则是把容器的形状改变
Transformation is about taking this form and changing it. "trans"即改变 "form"即形状
Trans, (which is) change, form, (which is) shape. 改变形状
Change the form. 这就是变形
This is transformation. 这是Robert Kegan教授
This is the distinction that I learned first from at the school Professor Robert Kegan 教我的第一区别
who taught about this. 接收信息 关注信息本身是不够的
Information in and of itself is not enough. 听听这个例子
Think about this example. 你去参加运动会
You go for an athletic meet. 目标是进入前三
Your aim is to get into the top three-- 获得奖牌
to be a medalist. 但是只获得第八名
You come in number eight. 你会如何分析
What's the analysis? 你会如何解读? 太糟糕了
What's the interpretation? -- Terrible. 我彻底失败了
I just failed. 你灰心丧气 感到无力
You feel deflated. Enervated. 但从另一角度看
On the other hand, 同样的比赛
the exact same event. 你期望获得前三 但只得到第八
You came eight when you expected to be top three. 你可以解读为"我学到了什么?
You can interpret it as "Ok, so what have I learned? 我还需要更努力地训练"
I need to work even harder." 你会更有动力
You become more energized. 从经验中学习
You learned from the experience. 也就是说 同样的客观信息
In other words, the same objective information which is "我是第八名 我目标前三"
"I got eighth; I expected top three". 同样的信息
The same information, 截然不同的解读
very different interpretation. 一个认为是灾难
One is a disaster, 另一个则当成机遇
the other interpretation is an opportunity. 一个让人失去动力
One leads to loss of energy, 另一个增加动力
the other one to increasing energy. 还有一个很普遍的例子
Or think about another very common example. 世界各地很多人似乎拥有了一切
We know of many people around the world who seemingly have everything, 人生顺利
who are doing well, 生活富庶
who have more than they need. 但仍旧不快乐
And yet they are unhappy. 而另一些人拥有的不多
And then there are people around the world who have very little. 但从未中断
And yet they never cease, 从未停止享受人生
never stop to celebrate life. 还有相反的情况
And we have another way around as well. 拥有一切的人 充满感恩 享受生活
People who have everything and appreciate it and enjoy life. 生活窘迫的人觉得自己是受害者
People who have very little and who see themselves as victim. 也就是说 重要的不仅仅是获得了什么信息
In other words, it's not just the information that goes in. 还有是何形状
It's also the shape, 如何解读 如何理解 关注的重点
the interpretation, the perception, the focus. 这就是由容器的形状所决定的
And that is determined by the shape of the form. 这是我在本科生阶段所认识到的
This is what I realized when I was an undergrad here. 表面上看 我拥有了一切
Seemingly, looking in from the outside, I had everything. 体育运动
Doing well (in) sports, 学术 社交都很成功
academics and socially. 但是我对生命的理解
And yet my perception, 关注和解读并不正面
my focus, my interpretation of life-- not that great. 我不快乐
I wasn't happy. 我们后面会讲 通常解读比信息更重要
The interpretation matters very often a lot more as we'll see than the information that goes in. 有一句话我会在课程中经常引用
One of the sentences that I'll repeat throughout the class is that 快乐由我们的精神状态而定 而不是社会地位或银行存款
happiness is much more contingent on our state of mind than our status or the state of our bank account. 所以需要变形
And that's where transformation comes in. 这对建立幸福感来说很重要
And that's why it's so important for wellbeing. 所以我们在实际操作时
What that will look like in practice 不会传达过多信息方面的东西
is that we'll cover not so much information. 而是挖掘更多东西 不是联想意义上的
We'll uncover much more and I don't mean that in the Berkeley (George Berkeley) sense of the word. 而是学术意义上的
I mean that in the academic sense of the word. 也就是说
In other words, 我们要挖掘自身潜能
what we'll do is uncover potential that we have inside, 这种潜能一直存在
that we have inside of us all along. 只是我们没有发现
Maybe we just didn't see. 或者被其他东西掩盖了
Or maybe it's obscured by something or another. 我们要发现利用它
We'll uncover it so that we can utilize it, 以便关注它
so that we can focus on it, 以便理解它
so that we can perceive it. 我讲个故事来说明吧
Here is a story just to illustrate it. 比如米开朗基罗
So this is Michelangelo. 曾经有个记者问他
One day he was asked by a journalist of his time, 您是如何创造出《大卫》这件巨作的?
"how did you create this most amazing masterpiece, David?", 米开朗基罗回答
to which Michelangelo responded, 很简单
"it was easy. 我去了趟采石场
I went to the quarry. 看见一块巨大的大理石
I saw this huge piece of marble. 我在它身上看到了大卫
And in it I saw David. 我只要凿去多余的石头
All I needed to do was to chip away the excess stone, 只留下有用的
to get rid of the marble that shouldn't have been there. 凿去多余的石头之后 大卫就诞生了
And when I got rid of this excess stone, there was David. 虽然说的比做的容易
" Not obviously easier said than done. 但是这个故事抓住了这门课程精髓
But the story captured the metaphor of what this class very much is about. 即凿除多余石块
It's about chipping away the excess stone. 也就是摆脱限制 阻碍
It's about getting rid of limitations, of barriers, 或者对失败的恐惧
whether it's the fear of failure, 这些东西在并不是与生俱来的
something that we didn't have as kids. 但如今却出现在了大多数人身上
But today most people in our culture have it. 要凿除削弱甚至伤害我们的完美主义
It's about chipping away perfectionism that is debilitating and often hurts us. 凿除胜利的能力
It's about chipping away our ability for success, 因为我们可能害怕胜利
because maybe we are afraid of success. 可能对生命中一些东西感到内疚
Maybe we feel guilty about some of the things that we have in our life, 这些都会反过来限制我们
and that in turn limits us. 也许甚至还要凿除两性关系中的限制
Maybe it's about chipping away the limitations on our relationships 尤其是带来消极面的时候
in while we don't thrive within them. 这些就是本课程的主要内容
This is what this class is mostly about. 就像梭罗说的那样
As Thoreau says, "做减法比做加法让灵魂成长得更快"
"soul grows more by subtraction than by addition", 减法包括除去那些
by getting rid of these limitations, 阻碍我们发挥潜能的限制
limitations that are preventing us from fulfilling our potential. 因为我们的潜能是天生的
Because our potential is in there in nature. 我们关注人类本性
We talk a lot about human nature. 是与生俱来的 无论是上帝赐予的
It's there whether it's through God, 还是进化产生的
whether it's through evolution. 但是渐渐地受到外部文化压力
We have a lot of potential that over time with we fix (?) stone of voices with being part of our culture 像多余石料一样 把我们禁锢起来了
that very often these limitations are put on top of us just like the excess stone. 老子说过
Lao Tzu, "In pursuit of knowledge every day something is acquired. "为学日益
In pursuit of wisdom, 为道日损"
every day something is dropped." "学"即信息
Knowledge is about information. "道"即变形
Wisdom is about transformation. 我最近参加一次大型咨询业会议时
I was recently interviewed for a newsletter on coaching 接受了一家相关期刊的采访
before a large conference on the topic. 采访者问我
And the interviewer asked me, "能给读者传授些积极心理学建议吗"
"So what tips, what tools can you give from positive psychology?" 于是我谈到了一些热门话题
So I talked about some of "the greatest hits": 感恩的重要性
the importance of gratitude, 体育锻炼的重要性
the importance of physical exercise. 我谈到了花时间经营爱情的重要性
I talked about the importance of spending time on our relationships, 谈到了休息 简化 等等
about taking time aside and simplifying and so on and so on. 我正滔滔不绝时
As I was going through my long list, 她打断了我 说
she stopped me and she said, 谢谢 Tal 这些都不错
"You know Tal, this is all good. 那些事情的重要性 我明白
The importance of stuff, I know. 但这些我们的读者都已经知道了
But our readers already know that. 我想要的是轰动的因素
I am looking for the Wow factor. 能让我意外的东西
Come on, surprise me. 能否告诉我们的读者?"
What can you tell our readers?" 我想了一会这个问题
And I thought about this question for a minute 然后意识到根本没有什么惊奇可言
and I realized that there is no Wow. 我跟她这么说了
And I told her that, "所谓的轰动之处就是没有轰动之处"
"you know if there is a wow, the wow is that there is no wow." 就是这样
That's it. 因为没有经过转变
Because the over-not-transformation emperor, 快速见效的说法都是皇帝的新衣
the emperor of quick fixes has no clothes. 是不存在的
It doesn't exist. 是过高的承诺和过低的兑现
it's over-promising and under-delivering. 生活 令人满意的生活
A life, a fulfilling life, 丰富的生活包括了起起落落
a rich life includes ups and downs, 包括了痛苦和再次振作
includes pain and getting up again, 包括了失败和再次奋斗
includes failure and getting up again. 它包括了成功和庆祝成功
It includes success and celebrating it. 胜利和失败 起起和落落
Victories and losses, ups and downs, 我们下个星期会讲到
as we'll talk about next week. 而不是关乎一个秘密
It's not about this one secret. 一个能让人过上幸福生活的令人惊奇的诀窍
One Wow to the good life. 而你们将在本课程中学到的许多东西
And many of the things you will learn in this class, 都是你们之前听说过的
you've heard of before. 也许对你来说没有什么新鲜的内容
Probably nothing new to you. 在你内心深处你已经知道了
You already know it inside of you. 你会说"这是常识"
And you are going to say, "Well, it is common sense." 是的 很多都是常识
And yes, a lot of it is common sense. 但是 伏尔泰曾经说过
However, it is Voltaire once said, "常识并非那么平常"
"Common sense is not that common." 特别是应用于实际
And this especially applies to application. 所以本课程的目标是让常识更平常
So the aim of this class is to make common sense more common, 特别是应用到实际中
especially in the real world application. 在本课程结束时
At the end of the class, 我所希望的是
here's what I am hoping for, 在本课程结束之时
at the end of the class, 如果你打算上这门课的话
if you decide to take it. 在本学期结束时
At the end of the semester, 我不想 我不期待你跑来告诉我
I don't think-- I am not expecting you to come and tell me, "谢谢你教给了这么多新东西"
"Wow! Thank you for teaching me so many new things." 那不是我所期待的
That's not what I am expecting. 我不认为那会发生
I don't think that is what will happen. 我所希望发生的是你过来跟我说
What I hope will happen is for you to come and say, 不是说"谢谢你教了我"
rather than "thank you for teaching me", 之类的话
something you would say 而是"谢谢提醒了我一些我熟知事情"
"thank you for reminding me of something that I've already known". 这就是本课程要做的
And this is what this class is about. 经常性的提醒 一周两次
It's constant reminder, twice a week. 经常提醒你们记起你们已知的东西
Constant reminder of what you already know, 你们内心深处的东西
of what is inside you. 你们心中的大卫
The David that is inside you. 本课程希望做到的是帮助你们凿掉一些束缚
And what this class will hopefully do is to help you chip away some of these limitations, 不管是哪种束缚
whether it's limitation, 是阻碍你认识已熟知事物的认知束缚
cognitive limitations that prevent you from seeing what you already knew, 还是阻碍你从已熟知事物中获取益处的情绪束缚
emotional limitations that are preventing you from deriving the benefits of what you already know, 抑或是行为束缚
or behavioral limitations. 基本要素是影响 行为和认知
The ABC: affect, behavior, and cognition 正是我们在改变周将要讨论的
that we'll talk about during the change week. 我要让常识更平常
So I'm making common sense more common. 信息本身还不够
Information in and of itself is simply not enough. 还不够 而我们除了信息高速公路外还需要转变高速公路
It's not enough and what we need in addition to our information highway is a transformation highway. 是在转变高速公路
Transformation high way, 还是转变乡村小道上
or transformation back roads, 来经历快速增长的步伐
to come through the fast increasing pace. 因为就像我们下次课会说到的那样
Because as we'll talk about next time, 抑郁率呈上升趋势
rates of depression are on the rise, 焦虑率呈上升趋势
rates of anxiety are on the rise, 不只是在这个国家 是全球化的现象
not just in this country, globally. 简直就是全球传染病
It's literally global epidemic. 而为了应对它
And to deal with it, 更多的信息也并不够
more information will just not do. 并不够
Just not enough. 下面是Archibald MacLeish的话
Here is Archibald MacLeish. 他生前是一位诗人 是哈佛的教授
He was a poet, was a Harvard professor, "错的不是科学的重大发现
"What is wrong is not the great discoveries of science-- 有信息永远比无知强
information is always better than ignorance, 不管是什么样信息和什么样无知
no matter what information or what ignorance. 错在于信息背后的信念
What is wrong is the belief behind the information, 认为信息会改变世界的信念
the belief that information will change the world. 但它不会"
It won't." 往我们的容器里增加 装上越来越多的东西
Just adding it and filling up our containers with more and more stuff. 越来越多的信息 越来越多的数据
More and more information, more and more data. 还是不够
It's just not enough. 我们需要更多
We need more than that. 本课程将采用一种人性的方法
This class will take a humanistic approach. 我来给你们读一小段Abraham Maslow的话
Let me read you a quick excerpt by Abraham Maslow who talks about this approach, "如果有人上了一门关于心理学学习的课
"If one took a course or picked up a book on the psychology of learning, 或者看了一本这方面的书
most of it, 大部分内容 在我看来 是与重点无关的
in my opinion, would be beside the point - 也就是 与人性无关
that is, beside the 'humanistic' point. 大部分内容把学习展现为获得联想
Most of it would present learning as the acquisition of associations, 技能和能力 这些对于人的性格 人的个性
of skills and capacities that are external and not intrinsic to the human character, 人本身来说只是外在而并非本质的"
to the human personality, to the person himself." 外在是指信息
External refers to information. 内在是指转变
Internal refers to the transformation, 形态的改变
the changing of the form. 当我们谈到转变时
And when we talk about transformation, 实际上是非常字面的说法
actually mean it quite literally-- 形态的改变
changing of the form, 大脑的改变 我们一会就谈到
changing of the brain as we'll talk about. 比如我们会谈到冥想
We'll talk about meditation for instance. 1998年通过的核磁共振研究我们知道大脑可以被改变
We know our brain today can actually change through MRI studies since 1998. 一个新的概念叫做神经形成或者神经可塑性
A new concept came up which is Neurogenesis or Neuroplasticity, 是指我们的大脑实际上会改变和转变
meaning our brain actually changes and transforms. 在我们的一生中其形态都在改变
It changes its form throughout our life. 所以我不只是在打比方
So I don't just mean it metaphorically, 我也经常指的是字面意义
I also very often mean it literally. 继续Abraham Maslow的话
Abraham Maslow continues, "人性的哲学衍生出关于学习
"Humanistic philosophy offers a new conception of learning, 教学和教育的新概念
of teaching, and of education. 简单地说 这一概念认为教育的功能
Stated simply, such a concept holds that the function of education, 教育的目标
the goal of education— 人的目标 人性的目标
the human goal, the humanistic goal, 只要人还是被关注的目标
the goal so far as human beings are concerned— 从根本上是一个人的自我实现
is ultimately the "self-actualization" of a person, 完全成为一个人
the becoming fully human, 达到人类或者是特定的某个个人
the development of the fullest height that the human species can stand up to 能达到的最高高度
or that the particular individual can come to. 通俗点讲
In a less technical way, 就是帮助一个人成为最好的自己"
it is helping the person to become the best that he is able to become." 这些是军队的广告
And this was before the Ad came up for the army. "做最好的自己"
That "Be all you can be." 这就是本课程所要讲的
This is what the class is about. 这就是人性的方法
It's the humanistic approach. 关于实现我们的潜能
It's about fulfilling our potential, 凿掉那些束缚
chipping away those limitations. 现在对于你们许多人这种方式似乎很天真 很理想主义
Now to many of you this may sound naive, idealistic. 并不天真 但理想主义
Naive it is not. Idealistic, it is. 我们会谈到和讨论理想主义和保持理想主义
And we'll talk about and discuss the importance of idealism and maintaining idealism 的重要性 如果我们要介绍个人的改变
if we are to introduce personal change, 个人之间的改变
inter-personal change, 或群体与社会的改变的话
or community or society change. 本课程不是提供
This class is not about providing answers, 关于美好生活和幸福的答案的
concerning the good life and happiness. 是关于辨识正确的问题
It is about identifying the right questions. "问过之后便会有收获" 圣经如是说
"Ask and ye shall you receive", say the Scripture. 本课程就是我认为的教育的宗旨
This class is what I think education is all about, 也就是对信息和转变的探索 必须由一个问题开始
which is that the quest for information and transformation must begin with the question. 探索 问题
Quest, question, 这两者在词源上有所关联并非巧合
there is no coincidence that there is an etymological link between the two. 在本课程中 我们会问
In this class we'll be asking, 你们会被问许多问题
you'll be asked many questions, 你们将会看到那些问题 创造了现实
questions that as you'll see, create reality. 我们下次会讲到
We'll talk about it already next time. 那些你首先向你自己
The importance of the questions you ask of yourselves first and foremost, 然后向你的搭档 学生
of your partner, of your students, 搭档 未来的雇员
of your parents, of your employees in the future, 和同事提出的问题的重要性
teammates and so on. 问题十分重要
Questions make a difference. Peter Drucker说"在管理决策中最常见的
Peter Drucker, "The most common source of mistakes in management decisions 错误来源是强调找到正确答案而非正确的问题"
is the emphasis on finding the right answer rather than the right question." Peter Drucker是20世纪最重要的管理学学者
Peter Drucker, considered the most important management scholar of 20th century, 最近刚刚去世
just recently passed away, 说最大的错误是没有问正确的问题
saying the biggest mistake is not asking the right questions. 我们下次会看到
As we'll see next time, 这也是在研究中潜在的最大的错误
this is the biggest mistake in research potentially. 这也是在应用中最大的错误
This is the biggest mistake in application. 没有问正确的问题
Not asking the right questions as well, 不论是在管理组织
whether it's in managing organizations, 还是在管理我们的生活
whether it's managing our lives. 现在
Now. 当我说问题重要而答案没那么重要时
When I said that questions are important and answers matter less, 我不是从相对论的观点来说的
I am not coming from a point of relativism. 我不是相对论者
I'm not a relativist. 我认为他们...
I think they are ... 对于某些问题 知道决定性的答案很重要
To some questions definitive answers that are important to know. 但是 我所说的是当提到教育时
However, what I'm saying is that it's important, 关注问题很重要 而不是较不重要
not less important to focus on questions when it comes to education. 教育家Neil Postman曾经说过
The educator, Neil Postman once said, "孩子进校时像问号而毕业时像句号"
"The kids enter schools as question marks and they leave as periods." 我的希望是本课程培养的问号要比句号多
My hope in this class is to bring up many more question marks than periods. 再一次 这是关于凿掉多余的石头
Once again, it's about chipping away the excess stone because as kids, 因为作为孩子 我们永远都在问问题
we are always asking questions. 我们永远都很好奇
We are always curious. 我来放一段我最喜爱的心理学家之一的录影
Let me show you a quick excerpt from a video of one of my favorite psychologists, 其实是喜剧演员宋飞
actually the commedian, Seinfeld. 他要讲的是...
Here he is talking about... 我们这个学期会看很多录影
We will watch a lot of excerpts throughout the semester. 如果像孩子一样我们会是怎样
Talking about what we were like as kids. 看看你们看得见不
See is this in your way "于是前两年 我自己做服装 当然不怎么样
"So, the first couple of years I made my own costumes which of course sucked: 鬼啊 流浪汉啊...
the ghost, the hobo... 第三年我终于求了爸妈
Then, finally, the third year, begging the parents, 我得到了超人的万圣节服装
I got the Superman Halloween costume. 并不奇怪
Not surprisingly. 纸盒箱 自己做的上衣 还有面具
Cardboard box, self-made top, mask included. 还记得面具后面的橡皮筋不?
Remember the rubber band on the back of that mask? 那可是个质量不错的玩意 不是吗?
That was a quality item there, wasn't it? 它可以坚持用10秒钟
That was good for about 10 seconds 之后就会从那个廉价订书钉里掉出来
before it snapped out of that cheap little staple they put it in there with. 你去了第一个人家
You go to your first house: "不给糖就..."啪嗒 橡皮筋断了
"Trick or..." Snap!" It broke. 简直不敢相信!
I don't believe it!" "你们等我一下! 我能修好它!
"Wait up you guys! I gotta fix it! 等我一下! 等我一下!"
Hey wait up! Wait up!" 孩子们不说"等"
Kids don't say "wait". 他们说"等我一下! 等我一下!"
They say "wait up! Hey wait up!" 因为当你还小的时候 你的生活都在上面
Coz when you are little your life is up. 你的未来在上面 你所要的一切都在上面
Your future is up. Everything you want is up. "等一下! 举起来! 闭嘴!"
"Wait up! Hold up! Shut up! "妈妈 打扫一下! 让我晚点睡吧!"
Momma, clean up! Let me stay up!" 父母当然刚好相反 一切都在下面
Parents of course are just the opposite. Everything is down. "冷静! 慢一点!
"Just calm down! Slow down! 给我冷静! 坐下 把那个放下!"
Calm down here! Sit down. Put that down!" 所以孩子们的这种好奇
So again this curiosity, 这种寻找
this looking up, 这种开放的心态是与封闭相反的
this opening up is opposed to closing down that kids have. 我希望在本课程中会产生这种观念
This notion. This is what I hope will happen in this class. 教育的真正目的
The one real objective of education 是让一个人可以连续发问
is to leave a man in the condition of continually asking questions. 所以下面讲讲John Carter所作的纵向研究
So here is a longitudinal study that was done by John Carter. John Carter 河对面的商学院的领导管理学教授
John Carter, professor of leadership management of the business school across the river, 1972年来到哈佛
came to Harvard in 1972, 做了老师并开始关注哈佛的课程
joined the faculty and started to follow Harvard class, 从1973年起一直关注了20年MBA课程
MBA class of 1973 and followed them through 20 years. 他想尽可能收集所有关于这门课的信息
And what he was interested in was to find all the information he could about this class. 20年后 90年代初当这个研究结束时
What he found 20 years later, 他发现这些学生都极其成功
early 90s when this study ended was these students were extremely successful, 以前的学生都极其成功 学生们都极其成功
Or ex-students were extremely successful, students were extremely successful, 非常有钱 有很大的影响力
very wealthy, having a lot of impact, 不论是在组织上 还是社会上
whether it's on the organizations, on the community. 他们都做得极其好
They did extremely well. 但是在这群极其成功的哈佛MBA里
But within the large group of highly successful Harvard MBAs, 他发现有一小部分人是格外成功的
he found a small group that was extraordinarily successful, 比其它人要更成功
more successful than the rest of group, 无论是在收入上
whether in terms of income, 还是在影响力上
whether in terms of impact, 抑或是在总体生活质量上
whether in terms of overall quality of life. 格外的成功
Extraordinarily successful. 他想弄明白其中的原因
What he wanted to identify was why-- 这一小部分人和其他人有何区别
what distinguishes this small group from the rest of the pack: 其他人也非常成功 但没有那一小组人那么成功
very successful, but not quite as successful as that small group. 他只找出了两件事
And he found only two things. 不是他们的智商对他们长期成功的因素没有影响
It was not their IQs that made no difference whatsoever to their long-term success. 不是他们在念MBA之前的出身
It was not where they came from, pre-MBA, 他们做的事和这一点关系都没有
what they did had nothing to do with it. 只有两件事会决定谁会成为格外成功的人
Two and two things along mattered in terms of determining 和其余的人上有关系
who will be the extraordinarily successful and the rest: 第一是那部分人真的相信自己
the first thing was the extraordinarily successful groups really believe in themselves. 他们认为自己能做好
They thought they could do well. 他们有目的
They were driven. 他们有动力
They were motivated. 我们会在下一次课讲到自我实现的预言
And we'll talk about it in future lecture as belief in self-fulfilling prophecies. 他们认为"我会做到
They thought "I'm going to make it. 我会成功"
I'm going to succeed." 这是第一件事
That's the first thing. 自信
The sense of the confidence. 他发现的第二件事是 这部分人
The second thing that he found was this group, 一直在问问题
they were always asking questions, 一直问问题
--always asking questions, 最初是问他们的老板
initially of their boss, 后来是问他们的雇员
later of their employees, 他们的搭档 孩子 父母 朋友
of their partners, children, parents, friends. 他们一直在问问题
They were always asking question. 他们一直处于好奇的状态
They were always at the state of curiosity. 一直在寻找 有开放的心态
Always looking up, opening up, 想要更加了解世界
wanting to understand the world the more. 他们没有说"我现在有了MBA学位
They didn't say "Now I have my MBA. 就行了 我知道的够多了"
That's it. I know enough. 他们是终身学习者
" They were life-long learners. 他们一直在问问题
They were always asking questions. 这两个区别性的特质
These two distinguishing characteristics 导致了格外成功和成功的人之间的差别
account for the difference between the extraordinarily successful and those who were successful. 那个指引了我的问题 不论是写书
The question that has guided me whether it's in writing the book, 还是开设这门课程
whether it's in creating this class, 还是被我所称的"问题的问题"
whether it's first and foremost my personal life is what I call "the question of the question", 就是"我们如何能帮助自己和他人
which is "how can we help ourselves and others, 个人 群体和社会变得更幸福?"
individuals, communities and society become happier?" 注意这不是关于帮助我们自己和他人变得幸福
Note that it is not about helping ourselves and others become happy. 而是关于变得更幸福
It is about becoming happier. 为什么? 因为很多人问我
Why? Because many people ask me, "那么Tal 你幸福吗?"
"So Tal, are you happy?" 我真的不能回答那个问题
And I can't really answer that question. 我不知道那是什么意思
I don't know what it means. 我如何判断自己是否幸福?
How do I determine whether or not I am happy? 是和别人比较?
Is it compared to someone else? 是不是存在一个点 超过之后就变幸福了?
Is there a certain point beyond which I become happy? 幸福不是二进制的非此即彼 0或1
Happiness is not a binary either-or, zero-one-- 要么幸福要么不幸福
either I'm happy or I'm unhappy. 幸福存在于一个连续统一体
Happiness resides on a continuum. 所以我对这个问题的回答-- "我幸福吗?"
So my answer to this question-- "am I happy?" 我今天是否比我15年前刚开始关注幸福时更幸福
is today I'm happier than I was 15 years ago when I started focusing on this pursuit. 15年后我当然希望自己能比今天幸福
15 years from now I certainly hope to be happier than I am today. 幸福是终身的追求
Happiness is lifelong pursuit. 希望本课程是这种追求的一部分
Hopefully this class is part of that pursuit, 但只是一部分
but just part. 你们不会在课结束时幸福
You'll not be happy at the end of class. 希望你们能比现在幸福
Hopefully you'll be happier. 因为很多人坐在这听有关自尊的讲座时 比如
Cos many people sit here during the lectures on self-esteem, for example, 或者当我们明确地讨论幸福时
or when we talk explicitly about happiness, 他们说 "等等 我的自尊心强吗?"
they say, "Wait. Do I have self-esteem?"-- 他们自己想到
Thinking to themselves. "我的自尊是较强的还是较弱的?"
"Do I have high self-esteem or low self-esteem?" Irrelevant. 这也是没有意义 无法回答的
Impossible to answer also. 问题是"我如何能提高我的自尊
The question is "how can I improve my self-esteem, 我健康的自尊
my healthy self-esteem, 而当然不是自恋?
not narcissism of course? 我怎样才能变得幸福?"
How can I become happier?" 那是一个重要的问题
That's an important question. 这是问题的问题
And this is the question of questions. 本课程不是一个积极心理学的概论
This class is not a survey of positive psychology. 如果你想要关于积极心理学的概论
If you want a survey on positive psychology, 我可以推荐一些很不错的课本
I can recommend some excellent textbooks Lopez或是Peterson的书
whether it's by Lopez (Shane J. Lopez) or by Peterson (Chris Peterson). 很不错的课本 还有一本积极心理学手册
Great textbooks. There is also The Handbook of Positive Psychology 一本很厚的书 里面有这个领域里大多数你想知道的内容
which is a huge book with most what you want to know about this field. 你也可以用它自卫
You can also use it in self-defense. 自卫非常管用
Very useful in that respect. 但是本很棒的书 写得非常好
But a wonderful book, very well-written, 让人很容易理解积极心理学
very accessible in the spirit of positive psychology. 但这里讲的不是那些
But this is not that. 不是积极心理学概论
This is not a survey of positive psychology. 而是对"问题中的问题"的选择性探索
What it is is a selective exploration of the question of the questions. 从那个角度讲 它是折衷的
In that way, it is eclectic. 我的背景是心理学和哲学
My background is in psychology and philosophy. 我学了组织行为学
I studies organizational behavior. 我做过几年商业顾问
I worked as a consultant in business for a few years. 仍然还做一些这方面的工作
Still do some work there. 我在教育领域工作过
I worked in the field of education, 在教育领域内做过很多工作
doing a lot of work in field of education. 我从所有这些领域中吸取内容
And I take from all these areas. 我还不只是从积极心理学中吸取内容
I also draw on not just from positive psychology. 我把临床心理学的内容融入这个课程中
I draw on clinical psychology in this class. 我融入了认知心理学
I draw on cognitive psychology, 社会心理学等等内容
social psychology and so on. 这是一个折衷的课程
It's an eclectic class. 因为我的问题
Because my question, 我的引导性问题是"什么会对幸福有贡献?"
my guiding question was "what would contribute to happiness?" 如果我认为精神病理学的内容
And if something within psychopathology I thought could contribute to our wellbeing, 能对我们的幸福有贡献 我会吸取并利用之
I took that and used that. 而如果一些有关组织行为学的咨询领域的东西有用
And if something from the field of consulting in organizational behavior could contribute, 那也会成为本课程的一部分
that became part of the class, 只要能在一个学期内讲完
as much as I could fit in of course in one semester. 所以本课程是折衷的
So the class is eclectic. 本课程不是跨文化交流
The class is not cross-cultural. 我会引进一些东方思想的观点
I will bring in ideas from eastern thoughts. 我在亚洲住过几年
I lived in Asia for a few years. 我在那工作
I worked there. 持续研究东方哲学和心理学
Studied and continue to study the eastern philosophies and psychologies. 但我的专业主要是在西方心理学上
But my train primarily is in western psychology. 而课程的重点将会是西方心理学
And the focus of the class will be that. 但是那并不意味着
However that doesn't mean 积极心理学不适用于世界上其他地方的人
that positive psychology doesn't apply to people from different places in the world. 最近有一场高资历科学家之间的会议
There was recently a meeting between senior scientists, 来自西方的心理学家
psychologists from the west, 像Paul Ekman和Richard Davidson
people like Paul Ekman, Richard Davidson- 这些在心理学领域内最重要的人物
some of the most important minds in the field of psychology 和达赖喇嘛还有他的一些僧侣进行会谈
meeting with the Dalai Lama and some of his monks. 他们谈论了心理学的未来 研究
They were talking about the future of psychology, about the research, 还有如何研究冥想等等
and how can you research meditation and so on. 而他们谈论较多的话题之一就是文化差异
And one of the things they were talking a lot about is the cross-cultural differences. 当提到这个问题时
And when that came up, 达赖喇嘛突然好像很不舒服
the Dalai Lama suddenly seemed uneasy. 当记录整个会议的Daniel Goleman
And when Daniel Goleman who was writting about this whole event 会议是在印度开的 问他怎么了
and it was held in India asked him what's wrong, 他说他不是因为谈到并强调文化差异而不舒服
Dalai Lama said that he was not comfortable with talking and emphasizing so much cultural differences. 对达赖喇嘛你可以有很多评价
You can say many things about Dalai Lama. 但你不能说他在文化方面不敏感
One thing you cannot say about him is that he's culturally insensitive, 他可以说是还在世的最敏感的人之一
arguably one of the most sensitive people alive. 然而他说 我们对文化差异的关注太多了
And yet he said  we are focusing too much on cultural differences 他补充道不是因为没有文化差异
and he added not because there are no cultural differences. 当然有而且很重要
Of course there are and they are important. 但文化共同性要比差异多
But there are many more similarities than differences. 而我们不应该无视这些共同性
And we shouldn't ignore those similarities. Daniel Goleman如此评价达赖喇嘛
Daniel Goleman about the Dalai Lama, "我们有点惊讶于达赖喇嘛这种表面上的
"We were a little bit surprised by the Dalai Lama's seeming resistance 对文化差异概念的抵触"
to the notion of cultural differences. 所以我想介绍这些观点 但是首先
So I am willing to introduce these ideas but A, 因为这不是我的专业
because it's not my training and people 研究文化差异的人会比我做得更好
who are focusing on cultural differences will do a much better job than I do; 其次 因为我所希望研究的是普遍事物
and second, because what I hope to look into is the universal, 不同文化中普遍的东西
things are common across cultures. 所以我们会在这方面进行研究
So we'll study research in this area. 但不只是这样
But even more than that, 我们的讨论比这部分心理学更具体
we'll become even more particular than just talking about psychology in this part of the world. 我们将会研究你们自己
We'll study yourselves. 我们会如此具体
We are going to go that particular. 为什么? 当我开这门课程时
Now why? When I put this class together, 我自己没想过
I didn't think to myself, "好的 我需要介绍些什么东西
"Ok, so what are the things that I need to introduce 以便能取悦课程的参与者 这些学生呢?"
in order to please the participants in the class, the students?" 那不是我所想的
That's not what I thought. 我所想的是"如果我是个本科生 会想上什么课?
What I thought about was "what was the class that I would have wanted to take as an undergraduate here? 如果我坐在这 什么能让我更幸福?"
What would help me become happier if I were sitting there?" 换言之 从我的观点 从非常个人的观点出发
In other words, thinking from my perspective from very personal perspective. 在我们的课上 我会鼓励你们
In this class I am going to encourage you. 当然你们可以看和阅读关于别人的研究
Of course you'll look at research and read research about other people, 有大量的样本
about large sample sizes. 但最主要的 我会鼓励你们去看自己的内心
But I'm going to encourage you more than anything to look inside yourselves. 去研究自己
To study yourselves. 无论是通过两周后开始的每周一次的课后论文
Whether it's through response papers that will be due weekly starting in 2 weeks; 还是你们最后的演示作业 你们不用做演示
whether it's in your final project that will be a presentation 但要写出来 一个关于你最感兴趣的话题
that you won't have to give but you'll have to write out-- 或者对你来说最重要的话题的演示
a presentation about your favorite topic or the topic that matters most to you; 还是关于如何能把这些观点应用于我的生活
whether it's in sections that you'll be talking about how can I apply these ideas to my life. "练习时间"是关于如何接受和利用一些观点
The time-ins are about thinking about how can I take in the ideas and use them. 是关于研究我们自己
It's about studying ourselves. 因为正如Carl Rogers所说
Because as Carl Rogers says, "越是个人的东西越普遍"
"What is most personal is most general." "越是个人的东西越普遍"
"What is most personal is most general." 正如Maslow所补充
And as Maslow adds, "我们必须记住对一个人深层本性的认识
"We must remember that knowledge of one's own deep nature 同时也是对普遍人类本性的认识"
is also simultaneously knowledge of human nature in general." 当我们更了解自己时
When we understand ourselves better, 当我们认识到自己时
when we identify ourselves, 我们就更能认识他人
we are better able to identify with others. 事实上 从许多方面说这是有益移情的来源
In fact, this is in many ways the source of empathy, of the healthy empathy. 有些研究表明了解自己的人
And there are some studies showing that people who know themselves, 研究自己的人 反思自己的人
who study themselves, who are self-reflective, 对别人做出过分的行为
display less egregious behavior, 不道德的行为会相对较少
less immoral behavior toward others. 那种比如说种族歧视的行为
Behavior that would fall under say, racism. 在一定程度上这是反直觉的
And it's counter-intuitive to some extent. "等等 你难道不要首先研究别人
"Wait. Don't you first need to study the other 才能对别人更敏感吗?"
so that you can be more sensitive to others?" 是的 那也需要
Yes, that too. 不过还不够
But it's not enough. 研究我们自己也很重要
It is important to also study ourselves, 因为当我们看到自己的深层本性时
because when we see our deep nature, 我们看到的是部分普遍的本性
what we encounter there is part of the universal nature, 我们所有人之间的共性
the similarities among us all, 不管我们来自哪里
regardless of where we are from. 而这就是达赖喇嘛所说的
And this was what Dalai Lama was talking about: 不是阻止跨文化研究
not stop cross-cultural. 去做吧 很重要
Do it. Important. 但同时 不要忽视自己
But at the same time, not ignore the self. 不要忽视我们每一个人身上的普遍性
Not ignore the universal within each one of us. C.S. Lewis说 "整个宇宙中有且只有一件
C.S. Lewis, "There is one thing and only one in the whole universe 我们知道我们可以从外部观察中学习到的事
which we know about that we could learn from external observation. 那就是我们自己
That one thing is ourselves. 我们有 可以说是 内在的信息
We have, so to speak, inside information; 我们是知道的"
we are in the know." 当我们研究自己时当然会有偏颇
Now there are of course biases when we study ourselves 这就是为什么只研究自己是不够的
which is why it's not enough to just study the self. 要克服这个问题
It's important to counter it, 把学术工作 研究他人融入进去很重要
to add to it, academic work, studying others. 那就是为什么我们除了探究我们的内心外
That's why we'll do some research or study research as well as do some search-- 也会做一些研究或调查研究
searching inside us. 两者并重
Both are important. 我们不应该 只是因为会有潜在的偏颇和错误
We shouldn't, just because there are biases and mistakes that potentially can be made, 这并不意味着我们要因噎废食
it doesn't mean we need to throw out the baby with the bath water 停止探究自己
and stop studying ourselves. 所以我们会 更准确地说是你们会这样做 比学校里的其他课程做得要多
So we'll do that or rather you'll do that probably more than any other class on campus. 最后这个可能对你们来说有些新
Finally this may be news to you, 但这不是10A号英语课和55号数学课 就是说
but this is not English 10A or Math 55, 你不用像10A号课或者历史课那样做大量的阅读
meaning you'll not have to read as much as you will read for 10A or for a history class, 也不像55号数学课一样难 所以你们可以轻松些
and this class is not as difficult as Math 55 so you rest. 我相信这有些人上过这门课
I'm sure there are some people here who took the class. 本课程同时是一种严格的乐趣
This class at the same time is about rigorous fun. 乐趣...因为研究我们自己很有意思
Fun...because it's fun to study ourselves. 有时会让我们受伤 有时我们看到一些我们不愿意看到的东西
Sometimes it hurts and sometimes we see things that we may not like, 但总的来说还是有趣的
but overall it's fun. 很有意思
It's interesting. 同时又是严格的 以研究为基础
And at the same time it's rigorous, based on research. 你们将在本课程中遇到的许多观点都很简单
Now many of the ideas that you'll encounter in this class are very simple, 很容易理解
very accessible. 常识
Common sense. 但它们是简单 不是过分简单化
However they are simple, not simplistic. 这两者是有区别的
And here is the difference. Oliver Wendell Holmes
Oliver Wendell Holmes-- 这个报告厅就是他捐建的
this court is attributed to him, 但不能完全确定是他所有的--说过
not 100% sure it's his-- said, "我不会认为与复杂性一致的简单性是微不足道的
"I would not give a fig for the simplicity on this side of complexity, 但我会把一生用来研究与复杂性相对的简单性"
but I would give my life for the simplicity on the other side of complexity." Homles这里的意思是他关心的不只是简单性
What Holmes means here is that he doesn't care about just simplicity, 简单的 随意的 难以预料的想法
easy, off-the-cuff, whimsical ideas. 而他所关心的是之后的简单性
What he does care about though is the simplicity that comes after. 我们深思了这个观点
We have chewed the idea, 在我们吸收了它之后
after we have digested it, 在我们考虑过它之后
after we have thought about it. 那些我们所研究的观点
Ideas that have been worked on. 而如果与复杂性相反 我们能看出简单性和常识
And if on the other side of complexity we can read simplicity and common sense, 那就很好
that's great. 那是他所感兴趣的
That's what he's interested in. 那也是我们整个学期要讨论的
That is also positive psychology researchers 积极心理学研究者所感兴趣的
that we'll discuss throughout the semester are interested in. 与复杂性相对的简单性
The simplicity on the other side of complexity. 这两种简单性之间有很大的区别
And there is a very big difference between these two simplicities, 尽管乍看起来
even though on the face of it, 他们有时也许是相似的
they may at times look similar. 本课程需要的是一种非常不同的努力
What this class requires is a very different kind of effort. 与别的课程非常不同的努力
A very different kind of effort to other class. 它不需要你像55号课和10A号英语课那样的努力
Again it doesn't require the effort that you'll need in 55 or in English 10A. 它所需要的努力是一种应用的努力
The kind of effort that it does require is the effort of application, 努力把它应用到你的生活里
of applying into your life, 努力把行为的实际改变带入你的生活
of introducing behavioral actual change to your life. 在我们开始讲本课程的一些细节像教学大纲之前
And before we go into some of the technicalities of the class such as the syllabus, 我想先讲一个关于Peter Drucker的故事
I want to end with a story about Peter Drucker. Peter Drucker 我之前引用过他的话
Peter Drucker, who I quoted earlier, 是现代管理学研究之父
father of study of management in modern times. Peter Drucker享年94岁
Peter Drucker lived to the grand old age of 94, 是几年前过世的
passed away just a couple of years ago. 在他生命的最后当他头脑还百分百清醒时
Toward the end of his life while he was still 100% lucid, 活动和参加组织活动对他来说更加困难了
it was more difficult for him to be mobile and to go into organizations. 于是他邀请想咨询他问题的人
So what he did was invite people who wanted consulting from him, 想跟他学习的人来他家
wanted to learn from him to come to his home. 有国家总统
And he had Presidents, 总理
Premier Ministers of countries. 财富500强公司的CEO和他一起过周末
He had CEOs of Fortune 500 companies coming spend the weekend with him. 而在星期五 每一次聚会都是这样开始的
And on Friday, this was how we started with every session, 对每一个世界级领袖
with every world leader, 无论是商界的 非盈利机构的 还是政界的
whether in business, whether in non-for-profit, whether in politics. 他都会对他们说如下的一番话
He would say to them the following, "星期一我不想听到你们说这有多美好"
"on Monday I don't want you to call me up and tell me how wonderful it was, 意思是这个周末有多美好
"-- meaning how wonderful the weekend was, "星期一我想听到你们跟我说
"on Monday I want you to call me up 你们做了些什么改变"
and tell me what you are doing differently." 在这学期结束后或者在这个讲座结束后
At the end of the semester or at the end of the lecture, 如果你们喜欢它
if you enjoyed it, 务必告诉我你们喜欢 你们获得了乐趣
by all means tell me that you enjoyed it, that you had fun. 但更重要的是你们所做的改变是什么
But more important, it is what you are doing differently, 这对你们的生活有怎样的影响 而那需要我们的努力
how this has an impact on your life and that takes effort. 我们将用一周的时间讲改变
We are going to spend a whole week talking just about change, 和积极心理学一点直接的关系也没有
nothing directly related to positive psychology. 只是讲改变
Just about change. 因为改变是那么难
Because it is so difficult to change. 因为我们知道大多数组织上的改变都失败了
Because we know most organizational change fails, 因为我们知道更多的个人改变失败了
because we know more individual change fails. 除非我们在引入行为上的改变的同时 引入认知上和情绪上的改变
Unless we introduce behavioral change along with our cognitive and emotional change. 影响和认知还不够 还要有行为
Affect and cognition is not enough; behavior has to be there as well. 你所做的改变
What you are doing differently. 经常用不同的方式做事需要勇气
To do things differently very often takes courage. 一些你们要交上来的课后论文
Some of your response papers that you'll hand in-- 都不会被打分 都只会有"及格和不及格"
none of them are graded; they are all just graded "pass/failed"-- 你们必须交论文 然后你们就及格了
you'll have to hand them in and then you'll pass. 但一些也许是你所写过的最困难的论文
But some of them may be the most difficult papers that you've written here. 有一些会是最简单的
For some they'll be the easiest. 很自然地就能写出来
And things will just flow out. 那就是关于引入改变
That's about introducing change. 那就是关于反思
That's about reflecting. 那就是关于花时间接受
That's about taking time-in. 那就是关于凿掉多余的石头
That's about chipping away the excess stone. 而这只能通过这种努力而实现
And it can only be done through this kind of effort. 所以如果你真的想通过这门课改变生活 一切取决于你
So if you really want class to make a difference in your life, it's up to you. 我将会给你们介绍材料
I'm going to introduce to you the material. 我将会给你们介绍这个积极心理学的精彩新领域
I'm going to introduce to you this wonderful new field of positive psychology. 而取决于你们的就是接受并应用它
what is up to you is to then take it and apply it. 我想谈一下教学大纲及要求
I want to talk a little about the syllabus and the requirements. 我会给你们一点时间去问问题
And I'll give you a little time for questions. 但在这之前
But before I do that, 我也想对
I would also like to welcome-- 我知道你们中的有些人正在家里看这堂课
I know that some of you are watching this from home, 对进修学校的同学们表示欢迎
to the extension school students, 很高兴你们能听我的课
it's wonderful to have you here. 有空过来看看
Do come and visit once a while. 而你们将显然参与到我们的课程中来
And you'll be working with obviously part of this class, 但也可以找Deb Levy
but also with Deb Levy who is the, 他是进修学校的助教
they had teaching fellow for the extension school. Sean Achor是文理学院的助教
They had teaching fellow for the FAS class is Sean Achor 我想请他来说几句话
and I'd like just to invite him for just a few words, 向你们做个自我介绍
just to introduce himself to you. 而你们会被介绍给我们的其他助教
And you'll be introduced to other TFs we have. 我们今年有支很棒的团队
We have an amazing team this year. 这就是Sean
This is Sean. 嘿 上午好
Sean:Hey good morning. 能听到我吗?
Can you guys hear me? 现在能听得到吗? 很好
Can you hear me now? Great. 能回来再次为积极心理学做助教非常荣幸
This is absolutely honored to be back teaching positive psychology again. Tal太谦虚了
Tal is too humble. 很荣幸他能给我们上课
This is not only extraordinary that he is sharing his time with us, 他还把家搬来了
but he's actually moved here back, 把家从以色列搬到这一整个学期
moved his family back from Israel for the entire semester,-- 包括他的妻子和他的两个孩子 只是为了能和我们一起教这门课
his wife and his two little children just so he can teach this class with us. 对我们来说能和他们一起共事是个极好的机会
And this is absolutely an extraordinary opportunity for us to share this moment with them. 我真的很激动
And I'm really excited about it. 上一次我们教这门课时
Last time we taught this class, 我们做了一个调查 看看坐在这上课的都是什么类型的人
we did a survey to find out what type of people were sitting in this room-- 他们就像你们一样
they are just like yourselves-- 看看为什么你们会上这门课
and find out why you'll be taking this class. 因为我们得到的关于这门课的评价常常是
Coz the comment that we get so often about this class 为什么哈佛的学生会不幸福?
is why would Harvard students possibly be unhappy? 他们有什么可不快乐的?
what do they have to be unhappy about? 他们认为每个上这门课的人会上这门课
They thought everyone who'd be taking this class would be taking it 是因为他们已经很幸福了
because they are already really happy 他们想研究自己到底有多棒
and they want to study about how amazing they are. 他们想学一些能明白地告诉室友他们得意的东西
And they'd like to learn things that they can tell the roommates so clearly that (?) themselves. 但是结果是去年有超过三分之一的人
But it turns out actually over a third of people who took this class last year took the class 选这门课是因为他们感觉抑郁
because they felt depressed. 他们想学习积极心理学
And they were trying to learn about the research about positive psychology. 还有三分之一是因为他们想学会乐观
And another third because they wanted to learn about optimism. 另外三分之一的原因则完全不同
Another third did it for completely different reasons. 我想 今年还有三分之一的人选这门课是因为
I think. Additional third this year did it because Tal was on the Jon Stewart Daily Show. Tal上了Jon Stewart的Daily Show 我很喜欢这门课
I am absolutely thrilled about this class. Tal要告诉你们的教学大纲是...
The syllabus which Tal is about to tell you about is.. 其实我们了解你们的一些其他事
Actually we learned a couple of other things about you guys. 你知不知道选了积极心理学的人中
Did you know that of people who take positive psychology, 有75%的人是俱乐部的干部
75% of you are officers of club, 35%是俱乐部的高层干部
35% of you are the highest ranking officers of club, 这意味着 你认为哈佛有大约2000个俱乐部
which means that you think there are about 2000 clubs at Harvard, 你在一个只有3个人的俱乐部里
you are in club of three, 又恰好是主席
and you happen to be the president. 我们了解到你们不快乐的其他原因
We learned other reasons why you are not happy. 我们了解到上积极心理学课的人
we learned that the average number of romantic relationships 在4年里恋爱次数的平均数在0到1之间
for people to take positive psychology in 4 years is between zero and one. 0到1之间
Zero and one. 不! 我不信
(Tal: No! I don't believe it.) 不要走
Don't leave. - 但那是在上积极心理学课之前
- 是在上课之前
- But that was before taking positive psychology class.
- That was before taking the class. 我们之后会调查一下你们
We are going to test you afterwards. 性伴侣数目的平均数是在0到0.5之间
The average number of sexual partners is between zero and .5. 我实在不知道0.5个性伴侣是什么
I have no idea what .5 sexual partners is. 这门课程将会很棒
This class is going to be amazing. 它过去就很棒 而且我们有一个很出色的教学团队
It was amazing in the past and Tal we actually have extraordinary teaching staff here with us. 很大的教学团队
It's a large teaching staff. Tal实际上已经给我们布置了作业
And Tal has actually already given us home works 所以老师们不仅要学你们学的那些材料
so the teachers are going to be learning not only the material you are doing 和你们讨论专业的内容
and talk you about which the experts (?), 还要学习如何成为更好的老师
but learning how to be better teachers. 他给了我们要读的书
He's given us books to read. 他事实上给我们布置了任务
He's actually given us assignment. 从那个意义上说这是个很特别的课程
It's a big extraordinary class in that sense. 至于教学大纲 网上会有
In terms of the syllabus, it's going to be online. Tal说现在我们决定要环保
Tal just described now we've decided to go green, 所以这门课程中不能使用树木制品 除了这个木制的大礼堂
so no trees are in making of this class except the large auditorium made of wood. 我们下周会在网上分组
Sections-- we are going to try sections online next weekend. 所以我们星期三会知道有多少分组
So we are going to get the numbers on Wednesday. 下个周末我们会做分组任务
On following weekend we will be doing sectioning 给你们的周转时间就非常少了
that gives you a very short of turnaround time. 如果需要的话 你们可以在周一换组
But that way you can give me Monday to change your section if you need to, 虽然我不希望你们改
which I hope you won't. 分组会在下一个星期开始
And sections will start the following week. 非常谢谢 如果还有什么问题 给我发邮件
Thank you very much. If you have any questions, send me an email. 好的 那么...
Ok, so... 我想我不需要跟你们解释
I think I don't need to explain to you 为什么这学期有一节课不是我教而是Sean教的
why there is one lecture in the semester that I don't teach and Sean will teach it. 而那节是讲幽默的
And that is the lecture on humor. 你们自己想想为什么
Figure out why yourselves. 我确实认为如果你想教什么你就必须擅长
I do think you'll have to walk and talk if you are teaching something. 教学大纲
The syllabus. 本课程 是向你介绍我关于这门课程的想法的
The class, is to introduce you to my thinking about the class, 是我所谓的
is what I call it, 整体的课程
integrated class. 就是指纵向的整体和横向的整体
What that means is that integrated vertically as well as horizontally. 纵向意味着每一节课都和下一节课有关系
Vertically means that every class connected to the next class 和整个学期内的每一节课都有关系 呈一个螺旋状
is connected to every class throughout the semester around a spiral. 所以我们下周所讲的内容
So what we'll talk about next week, 我们将在第7课 第17课和第24课里
we'll revisit it again in lesson 7, 再回顾一遍
lesson 17 and lesson 24. 所有内容在一个更高的水平上呈螺旋状互相联系
Everything is interconnected on the higher level on a spiral-- 换言之 会带来深刻的理解和我所希望的对材料的吸收
in other words will lead to deep understanding and hopefully assimilation of the material. 所以是纵向相互联系的
So it's vertically interconnected. 同样也是横向相互联系的
It's also horizontally interconnected. 就是说课程中的每一部分都强调并影响另一部分
That means every part of the class reinforces and influences the other part. 上课还不够 你们在分组作业里面将收获更多
The lectures, not enough, you'll get a lot more in sections. 分组作业是强制的
Sections are mandatory. 你们要在你们的分组里做大量
You'll do a lot of work in your sections, 和你的课后论文相关的工作
very much related to your response papers 许多学生说这是本课程最重要的一部分
that many student claim the most important part of the class. 因为这样你们才有了练习时间
Because that's where you get the time-in. 这是你真正开始凿掉的时候
That's when you really get to chip away. 和期末的大作业有很大的关系
Very much connected to the final project. 期末作业是一个演示稿
The final project is a presentation that you'll write out. 你们不用真的做演示 但要向几个朋友演示以获得反馈
You don't actually give it but give it to a couple of friends just to get feedback. 那部分不计分
Not graded on that part. 期末作业是以期末论文计分的
The final project is graded as a final paper, 但只是你们交上来的
but just what you hand in, 你们提交的那份
what you submit. 为什么写期末论文 是因为像演示那样的最好的方式
And the reason why there is a final paper because the best way which is like a presentation, 因为最好的学习方式是教
because the best way to learn is to teach. 你们将把这些材料教给别人
And you'll be teaching these materials to other people -- 任何在你的陈述中你所感兴趣的内容
any material that you are interested in in your presentation. 那么阅读
So the readings, 非常有关系 会把你们带到理解和吸收的另一个水平高度
very much connected and take you to the next level of understanding and assimilation. 在我讲完之前有问题吗? 你们有什么要问的吗?
So any questions before I finish up? Any question from you? 好了 那就让我说 最后一秒钟结束语
Alright. So let me just say-- one second finishing words. 对于能回到这里我感到非常激动
I am very excited to be back here. 我的家人对于回到这里也很激动
My families are very excited to be back here. 期望能和你们共度一个有意义的 愉快的
Looking forward to a meaningful, pleasurable, 令人享受的和更加幸福的学期
enjoyable and happier semester with you. 谢谢
Thank you. 



 Chapter 1: 为什么要学习积极心理学？


早上好
Hi. Good morning. 很高兴你们都来了
I'm so glad that you came. 我还担心在这种天气没人会来
I was worried that no one would show up in this weather. 很高兴你们都很好
I'm glad you are Ok. 首先做几个声明
Just a couple of announcements. 我通过邮件收到的几个问题
Questions that I received via email. 在开始课程之前我要说的几件事情
A few things before we jump into the material. 首先 有人问我"这门课程是为谁设置的?"
First of all,I was asked,"who is this class for? "这是积极心理学"
Is it for people-- you know it's positive psychology -- "它是为非常不开心的人设置的吗?"
people that are very unhappy? "它只是为抑郁的人设置的吗?"
Is it only for people who are depressed? "这门课程是为谁设置的?"
who is this class for?" 这门课程的授课对象是
Well,the class is for anyone who is interested in 对积极心理学有兴趣的人及想更开心的人
Positive psychology and anyone who wants to be happier. 如果你非常开心 你还可以更开心
If you are extremely happy,you can still be happier. 如果你非常不开心 你也可以更开心
If you are very unhappy,you can still be happier. 所以这门课程适合任何
so the class essentially is for anyone 对它感兴趣的人
who's interested in the material- 我会邀请有兴趣投入
and I would add someone who is really interested to work, 我们上次谈到的那种努力的人上来
to put the kind of effort that we talked about last time. 你不需要投入那种
Just not the kind of effort that we would require you to 为了明白某个概念而大为头痛的努力
wreck your head about understanding certain concept, 而是努力把这些观念融入你的生活
but it is effort in terms of applying these ideas to your lives. 也许你之所以上这门课程
Now you may want to take this class, 是因为你对积极心理学的理论感兴趣
because you are interested on academic level in positive 这也没问题
psychology that's perfectly fine. 你将会得到很多...
And you'll get many-- 我们每节课都会谈到非常多的研究
we'll talk about numerous studies in every lecture, 从下节课开始
starting next time. 我们将接二连三地谈到那些研究
We'll talk about study after study after study, 所以你也可以得到理论方面的知识
so you'll get that element as well. 但是 如果你修积极心理学
However,if you are thinking about taking positive psychology 是为了个人利益 那么你就需要努力
for personal benefits,you need to put the effort in. 对此今天我会作进一步的阐述
And I'll talk more about that today. 所以这门课程任何人都可以修
So the class is for everyone. 包括那些非常开心而且想更开心的人
Anyone who's extremely happy and wants to be happier, 及那些不开心但是想更开心的人
and anyone who's not happy and wants to be happier. 考试成绩 这不是个问题
Pass/fail-- perfectly fine. 这门课程的宗旨以你们的利益为上
Again the idea about this class is first and foremost for you. 所以我建议如果你想及格
So I would urge you if you do take pass 那么就要努力
and fail to put in the work, 因此是否及格的决定因素之一
and that's why the one element of pass/fail is not negotiable is 就是所有的回应报告必须交上来
that all the response papers have to be submitted. 回应报告不会评分
Now the response papers,as you know,are not graded. 它们基本上就是心得体会
They are basically reflection papers. 也就是你会思考能够融入
Will you reflect about the ideas about things 你的生活的想法和事情吗?
that can be applied to your life? 它们是必需要交的
But they are required. 你交上来 你就及格
So you hand them in,you pass. 不交就不及格
If you don't hand them in,you fail. 除此之外
But other than that,by all means, 如果你想参加考试 那也没问题
if you want to take this class pass/fail,it's perfectly fine. 第三件事
Third thing, 在这门课程你将会接触很多理论和观点
you'll be exposed to many theories,to many ideas in this class. 不是所有理论观点都会引起你的共鸣
Not everything would resonate of you. 2008年出版了一本很棒的书
There's a wonderful book just came out in 2008, 就在两周前 书名叫《快乐之道》
just two weeks ago,called "The How of Happiness" 它由Sonja Lyubomirsky所著
by Sonja Lyubomirsky. 在书中她谈到了一个概念...
And there she talks about the concept-- 她是加州大学河滨分校的教授
she's a professor at Riverside (UC), 哈佛大学的毕业生 斯坦福大学的研究生
Harvard college graduate and went to Stanford for graduate school 她谈到了找到"适合"的重要性
she talks about the importance of finding fit, 也就是某种方法
meaning the fit between certain technique, 某种工具 某种观点是否适合你
or tool,or idea,and yourself. 并不是你听到的每种观点
Not every idea, 每种研究
not every study that you've heard about, 以及你运用的每种介入方法...
not every intervention that you actually practice 你在生活中将会运用介入方法
and you will practice interventions in your life, 不管是作善举
whether it's doing acts of kindness, 还是表达感激
whether it's expressing gratitude, 还是体育锻炼 还是写日记
whether it's physical exercising,whether it's journaling. 这些事情你在整个学期里都要做
You will do all these things throughout the semester. 然而并不是一切都适合你
Not everything would be right for you. 你将会接触它
You'll be exposed to it. 尝试它
You'll try it. 然后你将作出决定
And then you'll make up your mind, "对 我想把它融入到生活中"
"yes,this is what I want to incorporate" 或者"不 它对我没什么意义"
or "no,this is just not relevant for me." 所以记住这一点很重要
So it's important to keep that in mind. 我所说的一切都有研究论证
Anything that I talk about is backed by research, 但是研究没有说它适合所有人
but the research doesn't say it's right for everyone. 它说这对于大多数人或者对于很多人
It says it's for most people or for many people; 都有作用或者正在起作用
this has worked or it is working. 所以你要积极参与到课程中
So again be an active participant in this class 而非某种学说的被动接受者
as opposed to passive recipient of a doctrine. 鉴别哪些东西适合你...不是一切东西
And identify the things that work for you-- not everything. 我敢说并非一切东西都适合你
I guarantee not everything will work for you, 但是有很多东西会适合你
but a lot of things will. 关于我之前提到的回应报告
Your response papers that I just mentioned earlier: 它们在下午五点钟就要交 很抱歉
they are due at 5 pm,sorry, 从下周二开始你将在每周二下午五点收到
you'll get them by 5 pm on Tuesday,starting next Tuesday. 然后在周日下午五点前交到你的任务组
And they will be due at 5 pm on Sunday to your TF. 回应报告对大多数人来说
Again the response papers are usually for most people fun, 都是有趣而好玩的活动
interesting and engaging activities. 它不会评分 它让你去思考
Not graded,just basically for you to reflect, 并通过它们去成长
for you to grow through them. 要写论文的人
Thesis writers. 你们中有多少人要写论文?
How many of you are thesis writers? 请举手让我看看
Just so I get a show of hand here. 好的 很抱歉 我没有在开玩笑
Ok,I am sorry. No I'm kidding. 要写论文的人 你们不用参加期中考试
Thesis writers: you'll not need to take the midterms. 我知道那段时间里非常紧张...
I know it's crunch time around that time- 我自己也经历过那段时期
being through it myself here. 所以你们不用参加期中考试
So you'll not have to take the midterm. 你的期末考占更多分数
Your final will account for more. 除非你想参加期中考试
Unless you want to take the midterm, 当然我们非常欢迎你参加
of course you'll more than welcome to. 我们不会把你扔到教室外面
we won't throw you out of the classroom. 写论文的人可以不用参加
Your thesis writers may. 网上将会有很多公告
There'll be many announcements online. 请经常查看网站
Do check the website on the regular basis. 我们会发布很多东西 而不是向你发邮件
We communicate a lot of things. Instead of sending you emails, 我们会发布公告
we'll have the announcements. 需要经常查看一下 大概每天六七次
Check them regularly,about 6 7 times a day. 这只是开玩笑
Just kidding. 一两天一次就已经足够了
Once a day or once every two days is more than enough. 在开始课程之前...
I'd like Before I do jump into the material 今天的课程非常令人兴奋
and we have a very exciting lecture today, 我们会邀请进修学院任务组组长Deb Levy
to invite Deb Levy who is the head TF for extension school-- 哈佛进修学院的同学们
so extension school students, 我知道该学院的一些同学在这里
I know there are a couple of you here, 还有一些在家里...
those of you at home-- 有请 Deb Levy
here she is. Deb Levy. 好的
Deb Levy:Alright. 我大概有二三十分钟的发言时间
I have about 20,30 minutes to talk 所以我会从我小时候讲起...这只是开玩笑
so I'm gonna start with my childhood. I am just kidding. 我是进修学院的任务组组长 我们很激动
I am the head TF for the extension school and we are thrilled. 进修学院有296名学生在选修这门课程
We have 296 extension students taking this course online, 也就是说他们会收看视频
which means they are going to watch videos, 进修学院的学生们
and then extension students 你们会参加电话会议
you'll be in sections on teleconference, 人们会打电话进来
When people are gonna call in, 所以我们将会有电话会议
there are gonna be teleconferences 这是个很好的机会
which is going to be a great opportunity. 我们跟新西兰的人打声招呼
Let's say hi to people out there in New Zealand. 还有法国的 肯塔基州的 莱克星顿的人
Hi. France. Kentucky. Lexington. 真是难以置信
It's really unbelievable. 另一件事就是 我想拍一张照片
So the other thing is I want to take a picture actually. 教室里不准拍照
(Tal: No pictures in the classroom.) 也给你拍一张 Tal
You'll take a picture Tal. 我不会授课
So I am not going to do any lecturing. 但是Tal和我有着相似的系统知识
But since Tal and I have very similar systematic stuff, 所以如果Tal因某种原因缺席的话
so if Tal is absent for any reason, 我会代你授课
I'll be doing the lecture for you. 很好
(Tal: Good.) 另一件事就是 进修学院的学生们
The other is: people who are extension, 希望你们要耐心点
I want to you be patient. 我们会尽快把信息发出去
We are going to get information out there as soon as we can. 大概下周你们就会分组
And you'll all be sectioned in next week or so. 能来这里真是太激动了
And feel thrilled to be here. 好的 谢谢你 Deb
Great. Thank you Deb. 我想以一个故事开始今天的课程
So I want to start with a story, 那是两年前发生在我身上的事
something that happened to me exactly 2 years ago, 恰好两年
just about to the day, 那是我上次教积极心理学的最后一节课
when was the last time when I taught positive psychology. 那学期开始的时候
As the semester started, 同时那是压力很大的一个时期 我的导师
it was a very stressful period also,my mentor, 我要把这节课程
who I am dedicating this class as well as 以及将来的积极心理学课程献给
all my future positive psychology class is to, 在课程开始前一天去世的Philip Stone
Philip Stone passed away just the day before the class started. 那时候我压力非常大
Very stressful period. 我生病了 病得非常严重
And I got sick. And I got very sick. 然而我还是上完了课
Somehow I got through the class. 我教授周四的课程 它从两年前开始
I taught the Thursday class. That started 2 years ago. 课程在周二上
It started on Tuesday. So I taught on Tuesday. 后来改为周四 我服了很多药
Somehow Thursday,completely drugged. 然而我还是上完了课
This lecture I made it through somehow. 我回家后无法入睡
And I went to home  and I couldn't fall asleep. 我感到非常痛 所以我去看医生了
I was in real pain. I went to the doctors. 那是周五下午 我说
That was on Friday afternoon,just saying "我必须要看医生 我服的药不起作用"
"you know I have to go. The medication I took didn't help." 我去看了医生 验了血
Went to the doctors. Had some blood tests. 几天无法入睡之后
And finally after days I couldn't sleep 由于痛苦我终于睡着了
because of pain,fell asleep. 那是周五晚上
This was Friday night. 午夜的时候电话响了
In the midnight,there was a phone call. 我没有去接 我很快睡着了
I don't hear it. I am fast asleep. 我的妻子Tommy拿起了话筒
My wife picks it up. Tommy picks it up. 那是医生打来的
It's the doctor. 医生对Tommy说
And the doctor says to Tommy, 结果出来了
"the test results just came in. Tal要立刻到医院来
And Tal should get to the hospital now." 她对医生说
She said to the doctor, 他刚睡着 他几天没睡了
"He just fell asleep. He hasn't slept for days. 能不能等到明天再去?
Can it wait til tomorrow morning?" 医生说 不行 他要到Beth Israel医院
And the doctor said,"No. And he has to go to Beth Israel, 那里有最好的实验室可以给他提供治疗
because they have the best labs for what he needs right now." 她没有再说
And she doesn't elaborate it any more. Tommy叫醒了我 告诉我发生的事
Tommy wakes me up,retells me the story of what's happening. 我起来了
Somehow I get up. 她不能带我去医院 因为David
She can't take me to the hospital because David, 当时他才一岁 他正在睡觉
at that time one year old,is asleep. 我们不想叫醒他
We don't want to wake him up. 我们叫了一辆计程车带我到Beth Israel医院
So we get a cab to take me to Beth Israel. 路上...这是我不做
On the way-- so this was the year Leverett的常驻导师资格的第二年
after I was no longer resident tutors in Leverett. 我们驶经查尔斯河
We were (?),driving down the Charles River. 然后我们经过哈佛
Up and drive and then next to Harvard. 我当时看着哈佛 看着美丽的河
I look at Harvard. I look at the beautiful river. 四周静悄悄
It's very quiet. 周五午夜之后没有多少车辆
Not many cars just after midnight on a Friday night. 我情不自禁地想
And I can't help myself but think, 如果情况真的很严重呢?
"what if there's something really terrible going on?" 他们为什么午夜叫我去医院
I mean,why would they call me midnight to the hospital-- 还指定是Beth Israel医院?
Beth Israel,insisting on just one specific hospital? 一定是出了很严重的问题
There must be something really wrong. 我开始思考
And my mind begins to wander. 我说
And I say, 如果我只剩下一年时间呢? 我在这一年里会做什么?
"what if I only have a year left? What would I do in that year?" 我变得非常伤心 因为我看不到David长大
I become very sad because I think I won't see David grow up. 我以后再也不会有孩子
I won't see-- I won't have any future children. 在上面要小心谨慎
Be careful up there. 我变得十分忧郁悲伤
And I become very wistful and sad. 然后我问自己 好的 在职业上
And then I ask myself,"Ok so professionally, 我在最后一年想做什么?
what would I want to do in that last year?" 我知道在生活在我要做什么
So I know personally exactly what I'll do. 我会用所有时间和家人一起度过
I'll spend all the time that I can with my family. 但是在职业上在这一年我想完成什么?
But professionally what do I want to accomplish in this year? 我的第一反应就是
And my immediate response was 我要留下一个系列的课程
I want to leave behind a coherent body of work, 一个向人们介绍积极心理学的系列课程
a coherent course introducing people to positive psychology. 我到达医院之后再进行了一些检查
While I arrived at the hospital,I had some more checks. 结果是没什么严重情况
It ends up being nothing too serious. 他们让我服抗生素
They put me on antibiotics. 几天之内我就开始复原了
And within a couple of days I am on the way to recovery. 但是今天我要和你们探讨
I want to share with you today though why. 为什么对我最重要的事情...
Why is it the most important thing for me 那时和现在都是如此
at that time and still today, 就是留下一系列
is to leave behind a coherent body of work 关于积极心理学的课程
about positive psychology, 向你们介绍这个奇妙的领域?
to introduce you to this wonderful field? 为什么是积极心理学?为什么是这个领域?
Why positive psychology?Why is it? Its own field? 为什么不只是研究
Why is it not--well,just study happiness, 社会心理学或临床心理学的幸福?
wellbeing as part of social psychology or clinical psychology? 为什么世界上这么多学者
Why have so many scholars around the world 都在研究积极心理学这个概念?
united around this concept of positive psychology? 这是我今天要说的
So this is what I want to do today. 2000年 David Myers做了一项研究
In the year of 2000,a research was done by David Myers. 霍普学院的David Myers 你们当中学过
Davis Myers,from Hope College-- some of you 社会心理学的可能读过他的书
who've studied social psychology may have read his textbook, 他做了心理学概念方面的研究
did research,looking at psychological abstracts. 他研究的是
What he looked at was the ratio "消极研究"和"积极研究"之间的比率
between "negative research" and "positive research". 这是他的研究结果
Here is what he found. 从1967年到2000年
From 1967 to year of 2000- 这是积极心理学的形成期
this was around the time when positive psychology started, 他发现在这33年里有5000篇文章研究愤怒
what he found in the 33 years are over 5000 articles on anger, 5000篇文章研究愤怒
5000 research articles on anger. 超过41000篇文章研究焦虑
He found over 41000 research articles on anxiety 还有超过54000篇研究抑郁
and over 54000 articles on depression. 然后他看看积极的概念 积极的研究
And then he looked at the positive words,positive research. 他寻找关于快乐的研究
He looked for research on joy. 他仅仅找到了415篇研究
And he found staggering 415 studies. 情况会有所改善
It does get better. 他寻找关于幸福的研究
He looked at research on happiness 他发现在33年里有接近2000篇文章研究幸福
and he found close to 2000 articles on happiness in 33 years. 生活满意度研究最多 超过2500篇研究文章
Life satisfaction came on top: over 2500 studies. 但是 如果你看看
Still,if you look at that, 消极研究和积极研究的对比
the negative studies versus the positive studies, 你得到的比率是21比1
the ratio that you get is 21 to 1. 每份研究某个积极方面
For every one article on some positive aspect, 积极因素的文章
some positive element of life, 不管是研究健康 满意程度 快乐还是幸福
wellbeing,satisfaction,joy,happiness, 都有21份消极方面的文章 包括抑郁 焦虑
you get 21 articles on depression,anxiety, 精神分裂 神经衰弱等等
schizophrenia,neurosis and so on. 21比1的比率
Ratio of 21 to 1. 我得承认这是非常令人郁闷的比率
Very depressing ratio,I must admit. 实际上它让我非常生气和忧虑
In fact,it made me very angry and anxious. 那些研究主要集中于不起作用的东西上
Studies focus on,primarily on what doesn't work, 大部分都是这样 而且这也不是新现象
mostly on what doesn't work. And this is not a new phenomenon. 这是Abraham Maslow写的一些东西
Here is something from Abraham Maslow, 我们上次提到过他
who we mentioned last time, 他在1954年谈到过这种现象
talking about this phenomenon in 1954: "心理学这一学科对于消极方面的研究"
"The science of psychology has been far more successful "远比对于积极方面的研究成功"
on the negative than on the positive side. "它向我们展示了人类的短处"
It has revealed to us much about man's shortcomings, "他的缺点 他的过失"
his illnesses,his sins, "但很少谈到他的潜能 他的长处"
but little about his potentialities,his virtues, "他的实际愿望或精神高度"
his achievable aspirations or his psychological height. "好像心理学自愿固步自封"
It is as if psychology had voluntarily restricted itself to only "让自己仅限于研究黑暗低劣的一半"
half its rightful jurisdiction and that darker,meaner half." 心理学研究什么?
So what does psychology study? 学心理学的人
I mean the psychology concentrators here know that, 可能会猜
probably guess that. 我们大量地研究偏见
We study a lot of prejudice. 我们大量地研究抑郁和焦虑
We study a lot depression and anxiety. 我们大量地研究相似性
We study a lot about conformity. 我们大量地研究判断错误和过失
We study a lot about misjudgments and errors, 大概就是专门研究这方面而很少...
very much focusing on this aspect and very little-- 21比1的比率表明很少研究积极方面
again,21 to 1,very little-- on the positive. 看到这个比率时 我想
And when I look at this ratio and I think about it, 那是1954年 到现在也没多大改变
this is 1954-- hasn't changed much since. 当我思考它调查它的时候
And when I think about it and I look into it, 我觉得心理学需要帮助
I think that psychology needs help. 我真的这样觉得
I really do. 你可以从个人的角度想想它
I mean think about it at a personal level. 如果一个人一天里有21小时感到消沉
that if you had a person who 21 hours a day was depressed 而只有一个小时感觉良好会怎样?
and one hour in a day felt good? 或者有一天感觉良好 便有21天觉得焦虑
Or one day feeling good and then 21 days feeling anxious 和消沉会怎样?
and depressed? 你会说这个人需要帮助
You would say that this person would need help. 我觉得这个领域需要帮助
And the field I think,needs help. 但问题是 这是正确的比喻吗?
But the question becomes "is it the right analogy?" 我们应该这样去看待它吗?
Should we look at it this way? 因为21比1的比率是不健康的
Because the 21 ratio is unhealthy, 从个人的角度来看肯定也是这样
certainly would be so on the individual level, 但是它从多个角度反映了现实
but it reflects reality in many ways. 因为我们今天所看到的
Because what we are seeing today 是越来越多的研究表明
in more and more research showing that there is more and more 世界上出现了越来越多的抑郁症
depression around the world, 还有越来越多的焦虑 东南西北
that there is more and more anxiety,east,west,north,south-- 世界各地
around the world. 有些人会争辩道...
And one could argue-- 那些主张继续研究这片领域
people who argue for continuing to do research in this area, 而少点研究积极心理的人认为
for doing less in positive psychologies,-- 我们应该让这个比率大于21比1
well we should be doing even more than the 21 to 1 ratio, 因为我们想缓和人们受到的
because we want to alleviate the anxiety 焦虑和抑郁
and depression that people experience. 今天的抑郁症病例比1960年高十倍
Today depression is 10 times higher than it was in 1960. 部分的原因是人们的意识程度高了
Now part of it is because there's more awareness, 我们对抑郁症的诊断更准确
because we measure better. 但这并非全部原因
But that's not all. 还因为抑郁症在客观上增加了
It's also simply because objectively there's more depression. 其中的一种迹象就是 最客观的"诊断"
And one way of knowing that is that the most objective "measure" 不幸的是 就是自杀
that we have is unfortunately suicide. 自杀人数在世界范围内明显上升
And numbers have risen significantly around the world, 不仅是在美国
not just in the United States-- 不管是在中国 澳大利亚还是这里
whether it's in China,whether it's Australia-- as well as here. 现在抑郁症人群的平均年龄小于15岁
The mean age for depression today is less than 15. 孩子们在很小的时候就接触了
Kids at very young age are introduced to the 信息高速公路
"information highway". 通常来说他们都没有准备好
And very often,they are not prepared, 他们无法有效地应对它
not able to deal with it in an effective way. 所以当我们看到这个数据时
So when we look at this data, 我们认为我们需要更多的研究帮助人们
we say we do need more research to help people 克服抑郁症 克服焦虑
overcome depression,to help people overcome anxiety. 这应引起足够的重视
And I don't want to belittle that. 这非常重要 极度的重要
That is important. It is extremely important. 我主张的
What I'm arguing,what I will argue for, 是天平的偏移
is the shift of the pendulum. 这样它将不会再是21比1
So it's no longer 21 to 1. 要有更多的研究关于积极心理学
There are more,many more studies in positive psychology, 不是要只研究它 根本不是
-- not to the exclusion of,not at all, 而是让天平偏移一点
but just shifting the pendulum. 这里的情况如何?
How about here? 我们的象牙塔里的情况如何?
In our local village? 有一篇文章...我无法找到更新的研究
This article,-- I couldn't find a study that is more recent, 它是在2004年发表的
this was published in 2004. 《哈佛克里姆森》
Harvard Crimson (http://www.thecrimson.com/). 这篇文章说 经过他们6个月的研究
This article says that,in their 6 months study of this, 哈佛大学八成的学生在过去一年
80% of Harvard students experienced depression 都经历过抑郁期
over the past year. 我们说的不是大多数人一天里
Now we are not talking about the regular ups and downs 经常出现的情绪起伏 我也是如此
that most people have ten times a day-- I certainly do. 我们说的是抑郁
We are talking about depression here. 它会持续一段时间
For an extended period of time. 根据这份研究 47%的哈佛学生...
47% of Harvard students,according to this,-- 这不是学术研究
and grant it: this is not academic study, 但是我待会就和你们分享学术研究
but I will share with you academic study in a minute, 它发表在高级期刊上
published in a top-tier refereed journal. 但是克里姆森里的研究表明
But Crimson has founded in its survey 47%的哈佛学生在过去一年
that 47% Harvard students over the past year 经历过无法正常生活学习的抑郁期
have experienced depression to the point of not functioning. 他们无法出门
So they couldn't leave home. 他们要痛苦地度日
They were really struggling to just basically get through the day. 47%的人
47%. 人们看到这个数据的时候 他们说
Now when people look at this,they say "当然了 我们要努力研究精神病理学"
"well of course,we need to focus more on psychopathology. "21比1还不足够 30比1才像样"
21 to 1-- not enough! 30 to 1 sounds more like it." 这样的情况各个校园都有
We see it around campuses. 而不仅仅是哈佛
This is not peculiar to Harvard. 绝对不是哈佛才有的现象
Not at all peculiar to Harvard. Richard Kadison
Richard Kadison, 他是这里的心理健康服务中心的领导
who is the head of mental health services here, 他最近在医学领域的领先杂志
in the New England Journal of Medicine-- 《新英格兰医学杂志》上
probably the leading journal in the field of Medicine, 发表了一篇文章
recently published an article, 他谈到了一项调查
where he talked about a survey 调查对象是全国13500名大学生
that was done among 13500 college students nationwide, 他们来自不同类别的学院
different kinds of colleges, 大学 公立学校 私立学校
universities,states schools,private schools. 他们在这项重要的研究里发现
And what they found in this very significant study 全国45%的大学生在过去一年
was that 45% of college students nationwide over the past year 经历过无法正常生活学习的抑郁期
have experienced depression to the point of not functioning. 《哈佛克里姆森》的数据是47%
So The Harvard Crimson found 47; 在全国范围的数据是45% 基本上是一样
nationwide,it was 45-- essentially identical, 两者之间的差异并不大
no significant difference among the two. 这是一个全国性的现象
This is a nationwide phenomenon. 这份研究表明
In this study, 全国94%的大学生感到压抑
94% of college students nationwide feel overwhelmed 因为他们必须要做的事而不堪负重
and stressed by everything that they have to do. 94%
94%. 这本应该是我们一生中最美好的四年
I mean these are supposed to be the best four years of our lives. 事情不对劲
Something is going on here. 不仅是美国才有这种现象
Now this is not unique to United States. 我最近刚从一次游历回来
I just recently came back from a tour. 我到了欧洲 包括英国 法国
I was in-- spent time in Europe-- in the UK,France; 我在中国逗留了很久 也去了澳洲
spent a lot of time in China and some time in Australia. 所有这些地方
In every one of these places, 政府都非常担忧...
the governments are really concerned; 大学校长们都非常担忧
university presidents are very concerned 越来越多的抑郁现象
about the growing level of depression, 焦虑 精神紊乱
anxiety and general mental disorder, 自杀率的上升 上面提到的所有国家都是如此
rise of suicide rates in all of these countries that I mentioned. 所以这是全球性流行病
So we have a global epidemic here. 我们再看看 21比1的比率是好事吗?
And once again going back so: Is it the 21:1 ratio good? 它重要吗?它不是应该扩大吗?
Is it important? Shouldn't it be increased? 我们怎么可以去研究幸福
How can we even think about studying happiness 健康 爱和快乐?
and well-being and love and joy? 我们不是应该首先处理
Shouldn't we first deal with 真正迫切的问题吗? 比如抑郁
the real pressing problem of depression, 焦虑 神经衰弱等等
anxiety,neurosis and so on? 这样说确实有些道理
--Some truth to that, 但是在这个课程里我要主张的是
but again what I'm going to argue for in this class 我们也要...
is that we do need to also, 不是专门 也不用主要
not only,not exclusively,not even necessarily primarily, 我们也要集中研究积极心理学
we need to also focus on the positive. 我要说三个为什么应该这样做的理由
I am going to talk about three reasons why we should do that. 首先 集中研究有用的东西至关重要
The first reason is that it is important to focus on what works, 因为有用的或者集中研究的会成为现实
because what works or what we focus on rather creates reality. 如果我们集中研究起作用的
If we focus on what is working, 它就会在世界起更大的作用
we'll have more working in our world, 在我们身上以及关系上起更大作用
more working in ourselves,more working in our relationships. 其次 为什么积极心理学
The second reason why positive psychology 作为一门独立领域的研究学科
as an independent field of study as a course in 是重要的 这是因为快乐
and of itself is important is that being happy 并非只是对痛苦的否定
is not just the negation of happiness. 摆脱我正在经历的
It doesn't mean just get rid of depression or anxiety 抑郁或者焦虑并不意味着
that I am experiencing, 我同时就变得快乐了
I spontaneously become happy. 情况并非是这样 问题不会这样被解决
That's not the case. That's not how it works. 最后 预防在今天来说非常重要
And finally,prevention which is very important today, 预防困苦最有效的方法...
the most effective way of preventing hardship, 不管是抑郁还是焦虑
-- whether it's depression,whether it's anxiety, 实际上是通过专注于培养积极心态
-- is actually by focusing on and cultivating the positive. 我会跟你们分享一些关于这点的研究
Now I will share with you some studies about this. 这三个原因表明我们需要积极心理学
So for these three reasons,we need positive psychology. 我从专注于有效方法的重要性开始
Let me begin with the importance of focusing on what works. 在《积极心理学手册》的序言里
In the introduction to the Handbook of Positive Psychology, 我们上次提到的Martin Seligman...
Martin Seligman who we talked about last time, 他被认为是积极心理学之父
considered the father of positive psychology, 影响了很多学者 他说
network of scholars,says this: "积极心理学的目标是促成一种变化"
"The aim of positive psychology is to catalyze a change "让心理学从只关注补救生活中最糟糕的事"
in psychology from a preoccupation only with repairing the worst "到同时建立生活中最美好的事"
things in life to also building the best qualities in life." 请留意他说的是同时
Note that he says also. 他没有说专门 甚至没有说主要
He doesn't say exclusively or even primarily. 专注于研究有效的东西至关重要
It's important to focus on what works, 不管是对我们的关系 对我们自身
-- whether it is in our relationship,whether it's in ourselves, 对其他人 对哈佛
whether it's in others,whether it's in Harvard, 对美国还是对世界而言
whether it's in United States or the world-- 这是为了获得更多有效的东西
in order to have more what works. 问题是"如何专注于研究有效的东西?"
Now the question is "how do we focus on what works?" 这个问题的答案
And the answer to this question 就在我们提出的问题的本身
is through the questions that we ask. 我通过一个案例研究来阐明这点
Let me illustrate through a case study. 心理学家在20世纪40年代末开始
Psychologists,starting in the late 1940s, 研究受危人群
studied at-risk population. 越来越多的钱 政府资金 大学资金
More and more money-- government money,university money, 慈善基金都投入到研究城市或地区里
philanthropist money-- went into study in the cities or places 所谓的受危儿童的身上
where generally the kids were considered at risk-- 他们更容易退学
more prone to dropping out of school, 以后更容易犯罪 少女妊娠等等
more prone to later-on crime,teen pregnancy and so on. 他们为这项研究投入了大量金钱
So this study they put in a lot of money, 大量的精力
a lot of effort into this. 心理学家们问的问题是
The question that the psychologists asked was "为什么这些人会失败"
"why do these individuals fail? "为什么受危人群中"
why does such a high percentage of students in "有如此高比例的学生退学?"
that as-risk population end up dropping out of school? "怀孕?犯罪?"
Getting pregnant? Crime?" 我们下周再谈统计数据
--And we'll talk about the statistics later on next week. "为什么他们当中有这么多人会失败?"
"Why do so many of these individuals fail?" 他们提出了很重要的问题
Now an important question, 心理学家们动机良好 头脑灵活 投入了很多钱
good intentions of the psychologists,smart people,lot of money, 投入了很多资源
lot of resources going in. 然而 变化却非常少
However,very little change was introduced. 这些研究带来的变化微乎其微
Very little change came about as results of these studies. 很多地区的情况继续恶化
And the situation in many areas continued to exacerbate. 情况没有任何好转 虽然动机良好
Certain didn't get any better,despite the good intentions, 虽然资源充足 虽然人们头脑灵活
despite the resources,despite the brain power 它们都被投入去研究这个问题
that twined into the researching into this question. 得到的答案却非常有意思
Interesting answers-- 我们需要更好的教育 更好的建筑
well,we need better education,we need better buildings, 更多的资源
we need more resources, 但是实际上发生的变化很少
but very little change actually in practice came about. 然后出现了一种范式
And then there was a paradigm, 20世纪80年代出现了范式转移
quite literally a paradigm shift in the 1980s. 通过Antonovsky的努力 我上次提到过他
Through the work of Antonovsky who I mentioned last time 今天我要再次提到他 通过Antonovsky
and I'll mention again today,through the work of Antonovsky, 及Ellen Langer和Alice Isen等其他人的努力
and other people like Ellen Langer,other people like Alice Isen, 心理学家们提出了不同的问题
different questions started to be asked by psychologists. 他们不去问为什么这些人会失败
Instead of asking what did these individuals fail, 积极心理学家开始问是什么让某些人
positive psychologists started to ask what made some individuals 成功了?即便面对的是不理想的环境?
succeed despite unfavorable circumstances? 也许是有很多人失败了 但并非所有人
Maybe it was the case that many failed,but not everyone. 有些人成功了 而且非常成功
Some succeeded and succeeded big time. 心理学家们此时便开始问 为什么
And what psychologists started to do then was to ask why. 为什么他们如此成功?
What is it about them that is so successful? 用Frost的话来说 这才是至关重要的
And that,in the words of Frost,made all the difference. 心理学家们开始识别这些人的各种因素
The psychologists started to identify elements, 以及各个方面并深入分析他们
aspects of these individuals and studied them in depth, 他们开始研究这些成功的人
starting to study the successful individuals, 并识别出各种因素
and identify elements that they could then teach later 然后他们通过研究想出介入方法
in creating interventions based on what they had studied. 突然间结果出来了 真正的结果
And suddenly,there were results,real results, 切实的结果 打破了数十年零结果的局面
tangible results,after decades of virtually zero results, 这仅仅是基于一个简单的问题
simply based on the question. 那时候出现的主要概念
And the main concept that came out at that time, 通过这些心理学家的研究
through the research of these psychologists 正是他们开始问积极的问题
who started to ask the positive question, 开始专注于研究成功的孩子们
started to focus on what is working on the successful children. 那时出现的概念是心理弹性
The concept that came out was the concept of resilience. 现在大家都在谈心理弹性
Now today everyone talks about resilience. 我们在学校谈心理弹性
We talk about resilience in school, 在工作上谈 在卧室里谈
at work,in the job,in the bedroom. 在哪里都谈心理弹性
Everywhere resilience. 然而 在20世纪80年代
However,at that time in the 1980s, 很少人谈及甚至很少人知道它的意思
very few people even talked about or knew what that means. 研究心理弹性的时候 它被定义如下
When they studied resilience,which is defined as following, 它的定义关系重大
it made all the difference. 心理弹性
Resilience,-- 一种现象 特征是积极适应的模式
a class of phenomena characterized by patterns of positive 即使是面对非常不利或危险的环境
adaptation in the context of significant adversity or risk. 这些成功的孩子最终成功了
These kids,who succeeded-- ended up succeeding, 这是通过纵向研究得出的结论
and they look through longitudinal studies-- 五年后 十年后 三十年后
5 years later,10 years,30 years later, 这些成功的孩子都具有适应力
the kids who succeeded,were resilient. 一开始 当他们研究这些孩子时
Initially,when they studied these kids, 他们认为这些孩子一定很优秀
the assumption was these must be super kids,extraordinary kids, 百里挑一甚至千里挑一
one in a hundred,one in a thousand- 因此是不可以模仿的
not really replicable,therefore. 然而
However, 当他们继续研究
what they found when they continued to study 这些成功的人时 继续研究虽然环境不理想
those people who work,those people who succeeded, 然而仍然成功的人时
despite the unfavorable circumstances, 他们发现这些并非是非常优秀的孩子
-- what they found was these were not super kids. 实际上这些是普通的孩子 他们性格普通
In fact these were ordinary kids with ordinary characteristics 但是成就非凡
that led to extraordinary results. 例如 我告诉你们几件事
For example,let me share with you some of the things. 这些孩子都很乐观
These kids were optimistic, 不是那种不切实际的盲目乐观
-- not optimistic in the detached Pollyannish sense, 而是乐观地相信
-- optimistic in that they believe in things 事情会被圆满地解决
that would work out well, 我们会经常把乐观主义当作诠释谈及
and we'll talk a lot about optimism as an interpretation style, 也就是Martin Seligman和karen Reivich的乐观主义
in the work of Martin Seligman and karen Reivich. 他们的乐观在于认为
They were optimistic in the sense of thinking, "好吧 也许这次不会成功"
"well,it may not work well this time. "它以后会成功的"
It will work out later. "我从刚发生的事学到了东西"
I have learned from what had just happened." 他们对生活有信心 认为它有意义
They had faith and sense of meaning in life. 有时它是宗教信仰 但却不总是这样
Sometimes it was religious faith,not always. 这种信仰是做他们相信的事
It was doing something that they really believed in. 他们中很多人都是理想主义者
Many of them were idealistic. 我们在这门课程里谈及的话题之一
One of main topics we will discuss in this class is 就是理想主义就是现实主义
that to be idealistic is to be realistic, 因为我们的内心需要理想主义
because we have a real internal need,innate need for idealism. 所以这些孩子有"意义感"
So these kids experienced sense of meaning, 不管是个人成功方面的意义
whether it was meaning in terms of personal success 以及他们的行事方式的意义
and how I will make it, 或者是服务社区的意义
or sense of meaning in their community contributing, 还有事情的目标意义
something meaningful in sense of purpose. 顺便说一下 我说的这一切
By the way,when I go through all these, 它们对所有人都一样重要
these are no less important for any other person in the world. 我们之前提到的心理弹性
This resilience as we mentioned earlier 不但对受危人群很重要
is just not important for the at-risk population. 对哈佛大学里的人也一样重要
It's as important at Harvard. 也不仅是在考试期间重要
And not just during exam period. 把心理弹性与幸福联系起来非常重要
It's important that resilience is associated with wellbeing. 思考这些特点 你就会展示它们
So think about these characteristics and you display them. 我在这里提到的这些特点
And the interesting thing about all these characteristics 你可以学到它们
they can all be learned. 有趣的一点就是它们都可以习得
that I'll mention here is that they can all be taught; 从多个方面来说 这门课程说的就是这个
In many ways,this class is about that. 当心理学家们识别出这些特点之后
And when the psychologists identified these, 他们开始教授它们 人们也开始学了
they started to teach them and the individuals started to learn 情况便发生了变化
and that made all the difference. 除了信心以及"意义感"
In addition to the faith and sense of meaning, 利社会行为 帮助他人
pro-social behavior,helping other people, 从无助转变到有益 它们都非常重要
shifting from helplessness to helpfulness,they were significant. 我们要讨论的事情之一就是
One of the things that we'll talk about is 帮助他人的意义
how meaningful it is to help other people. 它不但帮助他人
And how much it doesn't just only help others, 它还会帮助我们自己
it also helps ourselves. 我们便进入了自助和助他人的上升式螺旋里
And we enter an upward spiral between self-help and other-help. 因为我们帮助他人时也在帮助自己
Because when we help others,we are helping ourselves. 当我们帮助自己时在帮助他人
when we help ourselves,we help others. 循环往复
And so on and so on. 所以他们都是利社会者
So they were pro-social. 他们都在帮助别人
They were helping other people. 他们的眼光集中在自己的长处上
They focused on their strength 而不是缺点
rather than primarily deficiencies. 他们不忽视自己的缺点 但他们会问
They did not ignore their weaknesses,but they asked, 我真正擅长的是什么?
"what am I good at? What am I really,really good at?" 重申一次 这门课程的目标之一
And again,part of this course, 就是你会认清自己的长处
you'll identify your strength, 不管是通过线上测试
whether it's through online test, 通过回应报告
whether it's through reflection papers, 通过小组学习
whether it's in section. 还是通过阅读 你都会思考它
You'll think about it whether it's through your readings. 认清长处
Identify the strength. 他们擅长的是什么?
What are they good at? 他们为自己设立目标
They set goals for themselves. 他们面向未来
They were future-oriented, 他们不但思考事情现在有多糟糕
not just thinking about how bad things are today perhaps, 同时也在思考
but also thinking about 五年后或十年后的目标
"this is where I wanna be 5 years or 10 years from now." 我们会用三节课谈论设立目标
We are going to devote three classes to goal setting, 这是心理弹性的重要组成部分
very significant part of resilience. 他们有一个榜样
They had a role model. 他们会说
Someone who they said about "我想像她那样 我想像他那样"
"I want to be like her; I want to be like him." 榜样可以是老师 可以是亲戚朋友
It could be a teacher. It could be a parent,sibling,friend. 有时候
Sometimes, 它是一个历史人物或小说的人物
it was a historical figure or a fictional character, 一个他们可以效仿的人
someone that they want to emulate,to be like. 榜样给予他们力量 给他们方向感
That gave them strength. That gave them sense of direction. 最后 最重要的就是他们不单干
And finally,most significantly,they did not bowl alone. 他们有社会的支持 他们不会说
They had social support. They did not say : "我够能干 可以自己做"
"well I am tough enough to do it by myself." 他们说"我够能干 我可以请求帮助"
Rather they said :"I'm tough enough to reach out for help." 因为那确实需要某种能力
Because that does require certain toughness. 还有承认弱点的勇气
The strength to admit weaknesses as well, 承认有某种需要的勇气
the strength to admit a need. 想想
Now think about these: 你在哈佛 在生活中你有这些东西吗?
do you have these things here for yourself at Harvard in life? 如果没有 你可以培养这一切
And if not,you can cultivate all of these things, 不管是社会支持...
whether it's a social support-- 不用是每天
and it doesn't have to be a hundred people 与你交谈的一百人
whom you talk to everyday; 它可以是一两个好朋友 父母 室友
it can be one or two close friends,mom,dad,roommates-- 这至关重要
makes a big difference. 它是心理弹性最重要的因素
No. 1 contributor to resilience. 社会支持重要的一点
Now the important thing about social support 就是找到适合的人
is identifying the right people. 那些你向他们请求帮助
People who,when you reach out to them, 便会给予回应的人
will reach back to you and will be able to give back. 现在我向你们展示一个并不太好的榜样
I want to show you an example now of a not so good role model 不太好的社会支持
for social support. 这是Grace和Karen之间的一段交流
And that is an interaction 视频片断来自剧集《Will and Grace》
between Grace and Karen from Will and Grace. 《Will and Grace》（第3季第9集）
Will and Grace (From Episode 309): 这台游戏机是份不错的生日礼物
SALESMAN: This video game makes a nice birthday gift. 你觉得你的继子会喜欢吗?
Do you think your stepson would like that? 我不知道 亲爱的
KAREN: I don't know,honey. 他可以吃它或者摩擦它吗?
Can he eat it or rub up against it? 我们换一种方式了解
SALESMAN: Let's come at this a different way. 他的兴趣是什么?
What are his interests? 火腿
KAREN: Ham. 还是你自己到处看看吧
SALESMAN: Why don't I just let you browse awhile? 好的 谢谢
KAREN: Yeah. Thanks. Ooh,and,uh, 你可以处理一下
do you think there's anything you could do 这些小孩吗?
about all these kids in here? 夫人 这是玩具店
SALESMAN: Ma'am,it's a toy store. 好的 处理一下
KAREN: Yeah. See what you can do. 别挡道 矮个子
Move it,shorty. Karen
GRACE: Hi,Karen. Um... 今天我不能和你买东西了 我得走了
I can't help you shop today. I've gotta go. 怎么回事?发生什么事了?
KAREN: What's going on? What's happening? 为什么要装害羞?
What's with the geisha hand? 没什么
GRACE: Nothing. 我在皮肤科医生那里做了点手术
I just had something zapped at the dermatologist's, 看起来有点恐怖
and it looks kinda funky, 现在我不想任何人看到它
and I just don't want anyone to see it right now. Grace
KAREN: Grace, 我敢说它并没有你想的那么糟糕
I'm sure it's not nearly as bad as you think it is. 也许不值一提 一个小点 让妈妈看看
It's probably nothing,a little dot. Come on. Show mama. 啊 我的天啊
KAREN: Aah! Whoa! Oh! Oh,my God! Oh! 嘘 Karen 冷静下来
GRACE: Shh! Shhhhh! Karen,Will you calm down? 你叫我怎么冷静下来?
KAREN: How do you expect me to calm down 我看到它的心脏在我面前跳动
when I can see its heart beating right in front of me?! Aah! 嘘
GRACE: Shh! 好的
KAREN: Well,uh,alright. 好的 非常抱歉
Alright,I'm sorry. 你患疱疹多久了？
So how long have you had the herpes? 这不是疱疹
GRACE: It's not herpes. 它跟疱疹挨不着边
It's not even herpes adjacent. 是吗?
KAREN: Oh,yeah? Well, 它可以参加疱疹的家庭野餐了
it's close enough to be invited to the herpes family picnic. 这是一个奇怪的雀斑
GRACE: It was a weird freckle, 医生想要冻结它
and the doctor wanted to freeze it, 然后他告诉我要十天才能复原
and then he told me that it was going to take 10 days to heal. 他怎么会认为我可以丑陋十天?
I mean,what made him assume that I could look awful for 10 days? 因此 我要拿着你的尼龙包擦它
Respond to that,and I will rub it all over your Prada. 你在看什么 大肚婆?
KAREN: What are you lookin' at,prego? 以前没见过疱疹吗?
Haven't you ever seen herpes before? 天啊 胖子真是麻木不仁
Jeez. Fat people are so insensitive 我的天啊 我的天啊
GRACE: Oh,my God. Oh,my God. 从这块小玩具镜照出来的样子看来
Would you look at it in this little toy mirror? 它变大了 就像芭比梦想中的青春痘
It's gotten...bigger. It's like Barbie's dream zit. 幸亏我取消了和Mark的约会
Thank God I canceled my date with Mark. 没错 因为它看起来
KAREN: Yeah,'cause that thing looks like 要交通柱和警察拦护带才能遮住
it needs orange cones and police tape around it. 来吧 我们离开这里
GRACE: Come on. Let's get outta here. Karen也许不是社会支持的好选择
So Karen may not be a good choice for social support. 但是有很多人却是好的选择
But there are many people who are. 想想一个问题的力量
Now think about the power of the question. 想想一个问题带来的结果
Think about what a question did. 数十年间
For decades, 很多可以得到帮助的人没有得到
many kids who potentially could have been helped weren't helped, 因为没有提出正确的问题
because the right question was not asked as well. 只有在积极问题...
And it was only after positive question, 专注于积极的问题被提出来后
the focusing on the positive question was asked 心理学家们突然能够看到
that suddenly psychologists were able to see 数十年来一直都在眼前的东西
what was right in front of them for decades. 它就在那里 显而易见 等待着被发现
It was right there,apparent evident,waiting to be discovered, 但是他们完全忽略了
but they completely missed it. 他们聪明 动机良好 资金充足
Smart,well-intentioned,well-funded, 但是仍然没有提出正确的问题
but also didn't ask the right question. 问题制造现实 它们制造可能性
Questions create reality. They create possibilities. 一个问题引起一场探索
A question begins a quest. 他们在积极心理学方面的成就...
What they did in positive psychology again, 其中很大部分都是通过Antonovsky的努力
a great deal through the work of Antonovsky was move us 就是让我们从致病模型转到有益健康模型
from the pathogenic model to the salutogenic model. 健康本源学 健康的基础 起源
Salutogenesis,the foundation,the origin of health. 据Antonovsky所说
And Antonovsky was talking about, 研究疾病很重要
he said that it's important to study illness, 不管是精神疾病还是身体疾病
mental illness,physical illness, 但是研究健康的人也同样重要
but it's equally important to study the healthy people, 看看他们为什么会如此健康
the healthy individuals to see how they make it, 不管是否是哈佛大学里的人
whether it's people at Harvard. 哈佛大学是一个压力非常大的环境
Harvard is a stressful environment. 但是有些人却能走完它
However,there are some people who are able to go through it, 表现优秀 茁壮成长
to do well,to thrive,flourish and-- 他们也经历起起伏伏
well still going through the ups and downs, 我们都是这样 但是总体上
we all do-- overall experience it 他们的经历更积极更快乐
as a much more positive experience as a happy experience overall. 他们是如何做到的?为什么?
How do they do that? Why? Antonovsky说我们要研究这点
Antonovsky said we need to study that 这样我们就能了解健康的本源
so that we understand the origin of health. 他研究了这些东西
And he studied these things 而且它在该领域产生了很大影响
and it made a big difference in the field as a whole. Antonovsky说"那些熟悉科学史的人"
Quote Antonovsky: "All those familiar with the history of science "都知道重要的进步"
are aware thatimportant advances come "伴随着新问题的形成而来"
with the formulation of the new questions. "问题才是突破点"
The question is the breakthrough; "答案来之不易"
the answer comes with difficulty, "但重要的是新问题"
but it is the new question that is important. "有益健康问题"
The salutogenic question, "也就是我向你传播的"(正在发生)
I submit to you,(that is what is working) "是一个极为新颖的问题"
is a radically new question, "它推动新范式的形成"
which provides the impetus for formulating a new paradigm "以帮助我们了解健康和疾病"
to help us understand health and illness. "它对研究人员和医生有着重要意义"
It has serious implications for researcher and clinician, "生物学家和社会科学家也是如此"
biological and social scientist alike." 正是那个问题缔造了
It was that question that essentially created the field of 积极心理学和积极社会学
positive psychology as well as positive sociology. 他是训练有素的社会学家和其他领域的专家
He was a sociologist by training as well as many other fields. 问题导致改变
Questions make a difference. 问题缔造现实
Questions create reality. 现在我想和你们做一个练习
I want to do an exercise with you now. 我们在课堂上会做一些练习
We'll do quite a few exercises in class. 这是第一个
Here's the first one. 为了阐明问题的重要性
To illustrate the importance of question, 我要让你数几何图形的个数
now I'm going to ask you to count the number of geometric shapes 你在屏幕上看到多少个...
that you see on the screen-- 不 不是这个屏幕
no,not this screen, 是下一个屏幕
the next screen. 你们是哈佛大学的学生 没问题的
And you are Harvard students. It's fine. 下一个屏幕
The next screen, 我要让你们数几何图形的个数
I am going to ask you to count the number of geometric shapes 你在屏幕上看到的 这是个非常难的问题
that you see on the screen. It's a very difficult question. 我把它给世界各地的人看过
I've given it to people around the world. 我让数学家和视觉艺术家看过
I've given it to mathematicians,to artists who are very visual. 这里的挑战是
And the challenge here is you are only going to 你只有30秒去看它
have 30 seconds in which to do it, 30秒之后告诉我你在屏幕上你看到了
30 seconds to tell me how many geometric shapes 多少个几何图形
you see on the screen. 准备好了吗?30秒
Ready? 30 seconds. 你看到屏幕上有多少个几何图形?
How many geometric shapes do you see on the screen? 开始
Go. 好的 31秒过去了
Ok. So that's 31 seconds. 应该没有问题了
So there should be no problem. 如果你没有做过...
Now if you haven't done- 我知道你们有些人做过这个练习
I know a couple of you have done this exercise before, 但是如果你以前没做过这个练习
but if you haven't done- this exercise before, 应该是大多数人
-- and that's most of you, 我希望你们能参与其中
I'd like you to participate. 你数出了屏幕上的多少个图形?
So how many geometric shapes could you count on the screen? 把数字说出来
Throw out the numbers. 6 8 48 58 44 36 110 38
6. 8. 48. 58. 44. 36. 110. 38. 多少?
How many? 上面呢?
Up there? 你们的视角很好
You have a good perspective. 8 有多于110个的吗?
8. Anyone more than 110? 好的 多少?300?
Yeah,how many? 300? 200 有多于200个或少于6个的吗?
200. Anyone more than 200 or less than 6? 好的 很大的范围
Ok. So quite a range. 但是我承认这是个很难的问题
But I grant you that it's a tough question. 顺便说一下 如果你下载的PPT上
By the way if you have it on your power points 有这幅图...
that you downloaded, 后来我取消下载了
I took it off on the later downloading, 但是如果你下载了它
but if you downloaded it, 请现在不要看
don't look at it now please. 数到的个数在6个到200个之间
So we have the rate between 6 and 200. 这是一个很难的问题
Now it's a tough question. 实际上
In fact, 它难到我根本不知道有多少个几何图形
it is so tough that I have no idea how many geometric shapes 在屏幕上
there are on the screen. 但是我有另一个问题要问你们
But I have another question for you. 如果你知道这个问题的答案
Now if you know the answer to this question, 就把手举起来
just put your hand up 如果你以前没做过这个练习
--and if you haven't done this exercise before, 就把手举起来 别说出来
-- just put your hand up. Don't shout it out. 如果你知道答案 把手举起来
If you know the answer,put your hand up: 时钟上显示的是几点钟?
what time was it on the clock? 如果你知道答案就把手举起来
If you know the answer,put your hand up. 如果你认为你知道答案 举一半
If you think you know the answer,half way up. 也许知道 举四分之一
Maybe maybe,quarter. 剩下的可以离开了
And the rest of you may leave now. 有几个举了一半 所以在整个教室里
Ok,so we have a few halves. So out of the room, 这里有多少...这里大概有六七百个学生
--how many were there-- probably 600,700 students here, 在七百个哈佛学生里
out of 700 Harvard students, 五个半人能看到时钟上的时间
five and a half people can read the time on the clock. 但是我知道 我们今天都有电子表
But I understand,we all have digital watches today. 这很困难
It's difficult. 我来问你们另一个较容易的问题
So let me ask you an easier question. 如果你知道答案就把手举起来
If you know the answer,just put your hand up. 没错
That's right! 你看到巴士上有多少个小孩?
How many kids were visible on the bus? 如果你知道答案 把手举起来
If you know the answer,put your hand up. 如果你觉得你知道 举一半
If you think you know,half way up. 也许知道 举四分之一
Maybe,quarter. 大多数人都在想"什么巴士?"
Yeah,most of you think,"what bus?!" "什么小孩?"
You know. "What kids?" 就在那里
Well it was there. 整个教室里的七百个哈佛学生
So out of a room of --again -- 700 Harvard students, 大概有11.75人数出来了
there are approximately 11 and 3/4. Who can count? 但那没关系
But that's Ok. 这不是55号数学课程
That's not my 55 (Math 55 course in Harvard) here. 我明白
I understand. 另一个问题
Another question. 它比较容易
A little bit easier. 屏幕上最左边的几何图形
What was the color of,the dominant color of 它的主要颜色是什么?
the left-most geometric shape on the screen? 不是较大的那个图形
Not the big one on screen, 而是屏幕上最左边的几何图形
but the left-most geometric shape on the screen. 主要颜色是什么?
What was the dominant color? 如果你知道答案 把手举起来
If you know the answer,hand right up. 如果觉得自己知道 举一半
If you think you know,half way. 好的 大概是12.25人
Ok. So that's about 12 1/4 people. 根据我的估计研究
According to my estimated research, 这个教室里大概有五到七人
there are probably between 5 and 7 people in this room 是色盲的
who are color blind. 真的 根据统计资料
Really-- according to the statistics. 其余的人则没有借口说看不清
The rest of you have no excuse. 我们来看看
Let's look. 时钟上显示的时间?
So the time on the clock? 有谁觉得很难看清时间吗?
Someone difficult to obscure the time? 十点十分
10:10. 这是有点难
Well it's a bit difficult. 可以看见车上有多少个小孩?
Visible children on the bus? 汽车在这里 有些人还是看不见
Here's the bus,for those of you still can't see it. 五个 还有颜色
5. And the color. 最左边几何图形的主要颜色?
The dominant color of the geometric shape? 黄色
Yellow. 怎么回事?
What happened? 这是说 这些并不是非常难的问题
I mean these are not very difficult questions. 就算是积极心理学的期末考
Even the final of positive psychology 都要比它难
is going to be difficult than that. 真的 难很多
I mean,really. A lot more. 为什么?
Why? 原因是 我问了你们某个特定的问题
Well the reason is I asked you a certain question, 那个问题让你注意现实的某一部分
and that question directed you to a certain part of reality. 这是件好事
And that's a good thing. 因为如果我们总是专注于一切事情
Because if we were focusing on everything all the time, 那就不是件好事
that wouldn't be a good thing. 每种噪音都会让我们分心
We would be distracted by every single noise, 所有物体运动都会让我们分心
by every single movement. 所以我们能集中注意力是件好事
So it's a good thing that we can focus. 但是 我们也要记得
However,we also need to remember 这种集中精神的能力带来的后果
the consequences of this ability to focus 却不总是好事或者有益的
that is not always good it's not always helpful. 因为在你们看来
Because as far as you were concerned, 巴士上没有小孩
there were no children on the bus. 在你们看来
As far as you were concerned, 上面只有几何图形
there were only geometric shapes. 换句话说 我的问题给你们大多数人
In other words,my question,for most of you, 制造了一种特定的现实
created a very specific reality, 一种只有几何图形
a reality which there were geometric shapes 巴士上没有小孩的现实
and no children on the bus. 这有着非常重要的含义
Now that has very important implications. 想想以下的问题 蜜月期过后
Think about the following question: what question is mostly asked 夫妻间问的最多的问题是什么?
by couples beyond the honeymoon phase? 他们度过蜜月期之后
so they go through the honeymoon phase 不管是一个月 一年还是两年
whether it's a month,a year or sometimes two years. 那段时期后他们会开始问什么问题?
What questions do they begin to ask after that period of time? "怎么回事?有什么问题?"
"What's wrong? What's not working? "我们怎样去改善关系?'
How can we improve the relationship?" 这是一个非常重要的问题
Now that's a very important question to ask. 非常重要
Very important. 但如果这是我们所问的
But if that's the only question 唯一一些问题
or the only questions that we ask, 那么我们看到的也只有这件事
then that is the only thing we will see. 我们能看到的只是我们的不足
The only things that we will see are our deficiencies, 出了差错的事情
the things that are not working, 需要去改善的事情
the things that need to be improved, 我伴侣的缺点
the weaknesses of my partner, 我们关系的缺点
of the relationship. 如果我只是问"什么出了差错"
If the only questions that I ask are "what is not working", "怎么回事 我要改善什么" 重申一次
"what's wrong","what do I need to improve"-- and again, 我们不需要去掉这些问题
these are not questions we need to do away with, 它们很重要 但如果它们是唯一的问题
they are important. However if they are the only questions, 而通常它们确实是
and usually they are the only questions 被提出或主要提出的问题
that are asked or primarily asked, 那么在这对夫妇看来 不是客观上
then as far as the couple is concerned,not objectively, 在这对夫妇看来
but as far as the couple is concerned, 他们的关系里没有好的事物
good things do not exist in the relationship. 就像在你们看来
Just like as far as you are concerned, 巴士上没有小孩
there were no children on the bus, 虽然他们就在你们面前
even though they were right there in front of you, 盯着你
staring at you. 但是他们不存在
But they do not exist. 或者从个人的角度思考它
Or think about it at an individual level. 这非常重要
This is very important. 我们问得最多的问题...
What is the question that we, 大多数美国人 澳大利亚人 中国人
most Americans,most Australians,most Chinese, 以色列人 欧洲人 非洲人
most Israelis,most Europeans,Africans-- 大多数人最经常问自己的是什么问题?
what is the question that is mostly asked about the self? 我之所以要提到那些地方
And the reason why I mentioned all these places 是因为这是跨文化的研究
is because this is cross-cultural study. 大多数人都会问自己
People mostly ask themselves, 我的弱点是什么?我要改善什么?
"what are my weaknesses? What do I need to improve?" 通常排除了
Very often to the exclusion of 我的长处是什么?我擅长于什么?
"what are my strengths? What are my virtues? What am I good at?" 如果我们问自己的
And if the only question 唯一问题是
that we ask ourselves are the only questions that are 我的缺点 我的不足是什么?
"what are my weaknesses? Deficiencies?", 那么我们能看到的
then the only thing we'll see in ourselves 只有自己的缺点和不足
are weaknesses and deficiencies. 在我们看来
And as far as we are concerned, 好的东西 我们的长处 热情 美德
the good things-- our strengths,our passions,our virtues-- 我们身上的美好事物并不存在
the wonderful things within us do not exist. 就像在你们看来
Just like as far as you are concerned, 巴士上的小孩并不存在
the children on the bus did not exist. 现在我问你们
Now I ask you, 一个主要关注缺点的人
could a person who only or primarily focuses on weaknesses 看不到
and does not see, 也不欣赏他们的长处 热情
does not appreciate their strength,their passions, 他们的美德的人
their virtues-- 一个这样的人会有很高的自尊心
can a person like that experience high levels of self-respect, 自信心和很多的快乐吗?
self-confidence,happiness? 我们还奇怪 为什么这么多婚姻会失败?
And we wonder,why do so many relationships fail? 我们还奇怪 为什么抑郁 焦虑
And we wonder,why depression,anxiety 以及自尊心低落的情况增加了这么多?
and low self-esteem are increasing so much? 动机是有的
The intentions are there. 它们都是好的动机 我们问的是
They are good. We are asking "我们如何改善?怎样才能做得更好?"
"How can we improve? What can we do better?" 但如果我们不问积极的问题
But if we don't also ask the positive question, 在我们看来那部分现实并不存在
that part of reality will not exist as far as we are concerned. 就像数十年来对那些心理学家一样
Just like for the psychologists for decade, 他们问题的答案 问题的解决方案
the answer to their questions,the solution to the problem 并不存在
that they wanted to solve did not exist, 即使它就在那里
even though it is right there, 在他们的眼前 在那些成功孩子的身上
in front of their very eyes within the successful kids, 在他们的心理弹性里
within their resilience. 问题缔造现实
Questions create reality. 我们所问的问题通常决定了
The questions we ask very often determine 我们追求的东西
the quest that we will pursue, 我们会走的道路
the path that we will take, 我们会过的生活
the life that we will lead, 不管是从个人方面来说
whether it's individually, 从人际关系方面来说
whether it's interpersonally, 从组织方面来说都是这样
whether it's organizationally. 什么问题...
What is the question? 我知道你们很多会要当心理辅导师
Many of you I know are going into consulting. 心理辅导师最经常问的问题是什么?
What's the question that most consultants ask, 不管他们是否说出来
Either explicit question or implicit question, 他们首次见到客户问的问题是什么?
the first time when they meet a client? "有什么问题?有什么需要改善的?"
--"What's wrong? What can we improve? "有什么缺点需要改正?"
What are the weaknesses that we need to strengthen them?" 再说一次 它们是很重要的问题
Again,important questions to ask. 但如果你只问这些问题
But if you only ask these questions, 那么你就忽视了这个机构的
then you are ignoring the strengths, 优势以及美德
the virtues of the organization. 你所做的只是在让他们失去活力
And what you are doing,you are enervating, 你在让公司慢慢地变弱
you are weakening the organization over time. 欣赏起作用的东西
It is as important,if not more important, 也同样重要 如果不是更重要的话
to also appreciate what is working, 不管是在机构里 人际关系里或个人方面
organizationally,interpersonally,as well as individually. 欣赏好的事物非常重要
It is important to appreciate what is good. 看看"Appreciate"这个词
I mean,look at the word,"appreciate". 它有两个意思 其一就是为某事感激
Two meanings: first meaning-- to say thank you for something, 而不是认为某事理所当然
not to take it for granted. 这样做很好
And that's a nice thing to do. 我们不应该把长处 成功看作理所当然
We shouldn't take for granted our virtues,our successes. 我们不应把别人看作理所当然
We shouldn't take for granted others. 这是很好的事情
That's a nice thing to do. 但是"Appreciate"还有一个意思就是增值
But appreciate has a second meaning,which is to grow. 钱在银行里会增值
Money appreciates in the bank. 经济会增长
The economy hopefully appreciates. 当我们感激好的东西
When we appreciate the good, 好的东西便会增值 它会增长
the good appreciates-- the good grows. 不幸的是 反过来也是成立的
Unfortunately,the other side of the same coin applies as well. 当我们不感激好的东西
When we don't appreciate the good, 把它看作理所当然 好的东西会贬值
when we take it for granted,the good depreciates. 那就是大多数婚姻
And that's what happens in most relationships 蜜月期后发生的情况
after the honeymoon phase. 那就是发生在多数人身上的情况
That's what happens to most people, 特别是对于那些有动力去提高
especially to very driven people who want to improve, 想变得更好的人
who want to get better. 那是件好事
And that's good thing, 如果那让你感到开心的话
if that is what makes you happy. 同时
At the same time, 欣赏自己的优点也同样重要
it's equally important to also appreciate what is good inside me 我的长处 优点是什么
what my strengths,what my virtues are. 我们在课堂中将经常练习这点
And we are going to do a lot of that in the course. 但是不会做到自我陶醉的程度
And again,not to go to the point of narcissism. 我们会谈到自我陶醉
If anything narcissism-- and we'll talk about it 就在本学期倒数第二节课
in the second last lecture in the semester- 自我陶醉不是自信 不是自尊
narcissism is not about self-confidence,about self-esteem. 它正好相反
It's exactly the opposite. 我们说的是有根据的自信
We are talking about grounded self-confidence. 有根据的大方有益的快乐
Grounded,generous,benevolent happiness. 为了过上那种生活
In order to lead that kind of life, 我们还要欣赏起作用的东西
we need to also appreciate what is working, 用比喻的意义上说 还要留意巴士上的小孩
to also focus on,metaphorically speaking,the children on a bus. Stavros和Torres在一本关于婚姻的好书里说
Stavros and Torres in the wonderful book on relationships, "我们会看到要寻找的东西"
"We see what we look for and we miss much of "错失不去寻找的东西 虽然它在那里"
what we are not looking for even though it is there. "我们的阅历"
Our experience of the world is heavily influenced "被我们的关注点深深地影响了"
by where we place our attention." 问题经常会缔造现实
Questions very often create reality. 理解什么是问题的首要事情
The first important thing to understand about questions 就是我们要理解那些问题
is that we need to understand the questions. 在这点我同意一位重要哲学家
And here I want to defer to a very important philosopher, 一位20世纪和21世纪的哲学家
a 20th and 21st century philosopher, 他阐明了理解问题的重要性
who illustrates the importance of understanding questions-- 荷马辛普森
Homer Simpson. 能不能把声音调低一点
If you can just turn down the voice,the sound a little bit, 因为它非常大声 谢谢
because this is very loud. Thank you. 辛普森一家
The Simpsons 现在我们要做几项测试
SCULLY: Now we're gonna run a few tests. 这是一台简单的测谎仪
This is a simple lie detector. 我会问你几个问题 你回答是或否
I'll ask you a few yes or no questions 你要老实回答
and you just answer truthfully. 明白吗?
Do you understand? 明白
HOMER: Yes. 很精彩
Love it. Love it. 所以第一步是真正理解问题
So the first step is really understanding the question. 但是我们理解问题之后
But once we understand it, 知道我们要问什么问题也很重要
it is also important to know what questions are we going to ask. 我之前提到过培养心理弹性的要事之一
I mentioned earlier that one of the most important things 就是要有一个榜样
in cultivating resilience is having a role model. 现在我要告诉你们我的榜样
I want to share with you now my role model, 实际上 正是因为她
in fact,the person who is the reason 我才决定成为一名教师
why I decided to become a teacher. 她叫Marva Collins
Her name is Marva Collins. Marva Collins20世纪30年代生于阿拉巴马州
Marva Collins was born in Alabama in the 1930s. 她父亲是非洲裔美国人 母亲是印地安人
Her father was African American; her mother,Native American. 她出生的时候
she was born at a time in a place 种族岐视风行
where there was a great deal of discrimination. 幸运的是 对于Marva
Fortunately,for Marva, 她父亲对她非常有信心
her father really believed in her 从小他就对她说
and said to her from a very young age, "Marva 你将会有所作为"
"Marva,you can make something of your life. "你可以成为一名秘书"
You can become a secretary." 他之说以说秘书是因为
Now the reason why he said secretary is because 那就是无形的障碍
that was where the glass ceiling, 或者说是有形的障碍
or rather concrete ceiling exists 鉴于她的种族背景
for a person of her ethnic background, 鉴于她的性别
a person of her gender. Marva Collins努力工作
Marva Collins worked hard. 她很聪明 她成功了
She was smart. She succeeded. She made it. 她成为了一名秘书
And she became a secretary. 做了几年秘书之后 虽然干得不错
After a few years of working as a secretary,doing well, 她觉得这不适合她 不是她的使命
she decided this was not for her and what her calling in life. 她真正的热情在于教书
Her real passion was in teaching. 她想成为学校里的一名教师
She wanted to be a school teacher. 于是她上夜校
She went to night school. 几年之后
A few years later, 她得到了教师证书
she got her teaching certificate, 她结婚了并和丈夫搬到了芝加哥
got married and with her husband moved to Chicago. 她在那加入了芝加哥内城的公立学校
There she joined the public school system in inner city,Chicago. 她在那里看到的现实
The reality that she found, 是大量犯罪
that she encountered there was a reality of much crime, 毒品泛滥 最重要的是没有希望
much drugs and more than anything,hopelessness. 老师们的希望是让孩子们
The hope of the teachers was to keep the students in school 在学校里尽可能呆久点
for as long as possible. 为什么?因为这样他们就不会12岁加入街头帮派
Why? --So that they don't join the street gangs at the age of 12; 这样他们就不会接触毒品 不会犯罪
so that they are protected from the drugs,from crime. "我们怎样让学生呆在学校里?"
"How can we keep the students in school for as long as possible?" 老师们问
asked the teachers. Marva Collins面对这种现实说
Marva Collins walks into this reality and says, "事情将有所改观"
"Things are going to be different." 在上课的第一天...
On the first day of class, 她教一年级到四年级
-- she teaches first graders to fourth graders-- 在上课的第一天
--on the first day of class, 她对学生们说
she says to her students, "我们要练习自信"
"We are going to do a lot of believing in ourselves." 她不断地重复地说着这则信息
And she repeats this message over and over and over again, 整个学期犹如不断重播的唱片
like a broken record throughout the semester 最后坚持了整年 几年
and the year and years. "我相信你 你能做好 你能成功"
"I believe in you. You can do well. You can succeed. "承担生活的责任"
Take responsibility for your life. "停止抱怨 停止抱怨政府"
Stop blaming. Stop blaming the government. "停止抱怨老师 停止抱怨父母"
Stop blaming your teachers. Stop blaming your parents. "成功与否全在你自己"
It is up to you to succeed." 她继续不断地重复着这则信息
And she continues with this message over and over and over again. 她对学生们充满期望
Having really high expectations of her students, 把眼光放在他们的长处
looking at what they are good at, 和优点上 并而加以培养
their strength and cultivating those. 奇迹开始发生了
Miracles begin to happen. These students, 这些被老师认为是"不可教"的学生
considered by many of the teachers to be"unteachable"- 到了四年级便可以读
these "unteachable" ones by the time that they are in 欧里庇得斯 爱默生和莎翁的作品
fourth grade are reading Euripides,Emerson and Shakespeare. 这些"不可教"的学生在十岁时
These "unteachable" ones at the age of 10 便可以做高中的数学
are doing high school mathematics. 关于Marva Collins的谣言开始传播
Now rumor begins to spread about Marva Collins, 她怎能让这些学生在教室里呆这么长时间
because how can she keep these students in class for so long, 而其他学生却想着离开学校?
when all the other students are just trying to get out of school? 她一定是在强迫他们
She must be using force. Marva Collins受够了谣言的中伤
And Marva Collins has enough of these rumors, 她离开公共学校成立了自己的学校
leave the public school system,opens up her own school 就在她的厨房里 开始只有四个学生
in her own kitchen with 4 students and initially, 其中两个是她的孩子
two of them her own kids. 逐渐地 越来越多的学生进入了Marva Collins学校
Gradually,more and more students join the Marva Collins school, 她称之为西岸小学
Westside preparatory she calls it. 一开始进入这间学校的学生
All the students that initially joined the school 都是从公共学校退学的
are public school dropouts. Marva Collins是他们成为街头混混前最后的希望
Marva Collins is the last resort before the street. 奇迹继续发生
And the miracles continue. 逐渐地 越来越多的学生进入
Gradually more and more students come in. 她不得不搬出去
She has to move out of her home. 他们在芝加哥租了一间小室
They wretchedly rent a small shack in Chicago place, 冬天寒冷无比 夏天酷热难当
freezing in winter,scorching hot in summer. 然而学生们被他们的热情所驱动
And yet the students are driven by their passion. 他们继续学习 奇迹继续发生在他们身上
And they continue. Miracles continue to happen to them. Marva Collins所有的学生
Every one of Marva Collins' students graduates 都从小学毕业了
from elementary school. 所有学生都上了高中并毕业了
Everyone goes to high school and graduates from high school. 她所有的学生最后都上了大学
Every one of her students ends up in college 并从大学毕业
and graduates from college. 没错 那些"不可教"的学生
Yes,those "unteachable" ones. Marva Collins数十年生活困苦
Marva Collins lives in a dire poverty for decades, 然而她努力平衡收支
somehow making ends meet. 毕竟 她的学生都无法付学费
After all,most of her students can't pay. 但是 月继一月 她熬过去了
But somehow,months to months,she makes it. 1979年 情况一夜发生了变化
1979 it changes overnight. CBS《60分钟》的制片人
A producer,from the television CBS program "60 Minutes" finds 得知了Marva Collins的故事 并制作了15分钟的节目
out about Marva Collins and creates a 15 minutes segment on her. 她一夜成名
Overnight she becomse famous. 1980年11月
November,1980, 新当选总统罗纳德里根打电话给Marva Collins
new President elect Ronald Reagan calls up Marva Collins. 请她做他的教育部长
offers her to be his secretary of Education. 我想她父亲是对的
So I guess her father was right. Marva Collins拒绝了邀请 她说
Marva Collins turns his offers down and says, "我太喜欢教书了 我属于教室"
"I love to teach too much. My place is in the classroom. 恰好八年过去了
8 years later almost to the day, 新当选总统老布什
new president elect George Bush Sr. 再次打电话给Marva Collins
calls Marva Collins once again, 请她做他的教育部长
offering her to be his secretary of education. 再一次 她说"我太喜欢教书了"
Once again,"I love to teach too much." "我属于教室"
My place is in the classroom. 1995年 一位富裕的慈善家捐赠了
In 1995,a wealthy philanthropist donates tens of millions 数千万美元给Marva Collins
of dollars to Marva Collins. 现在全国都有Marva Collins学校
Now there are Marva Collins schools all over the country 数千名学生在里面学习
where thousands of students learn, 来自世界各地的数百名教师
where hundreds of teachers from all over the world 前来目睹Marva Collins的奇迹
come and see the miracle of Marva Collins. 今天Marva Collins的学生里有政治家
Today there are Marva Collins graduates who are politicians, 商人 律师 医生
business people,lawyers,doctors, 而最多的 就是老师
and more than anything,teachers. 因为他们知道他们老师的功劳
Because they know what their teacher has done for them. 我要展示这位杰出女性的一个片段
I want to show you a brief excerpt of this extraordinary woman. 请把声音调大一点
You can turn the volume up a little bit please. 它声音不大
This is soft. Marva Collins"积极学习法"
Marva Collins "Positive Learning" 我想我做得很好
I think I did pretty wonderful. 我想我很聪明 我很特别
I think I'm bright. I think I am unique. 我会教每个孩子这样想
And I'll teach every child of me to think that. 当他们不守规矩的时候
When they misbehave, 他们的惩罚就是要写100个原因
their punishment is they have to write 100 reasons 说明为什么他们棒到要做那样的事
why they are too wonderful to do what they are doing. 而且它们要按字母顺序写
And they have to be alpha order. 我很可爱 我很漂亮 我很勇敢
I am adorable. I am beautiful. I am courageous. 我给他们例子直到他们明白
I give them the first ones until they get the hang out of it. 我令人快乐 我很兴奋 我很厉害
I am delightful. I am effervescent. I am fabulous. 我很棒 我是榜样 我无与伦比
I am heavenly. I am idolized. I am just wonderful. 我很热情 我很可爱 我很重要
I am a kindred spirit. I am lovable. I am momentous. 我从不懒惰
I am never,never indolent. 一直写到最后一个字母 如果他们再犯
And it goes on to z. And if they do it again, 他们必须要用另一个同义词
then they have to use another synonym. 他们不能再用可爱了
They can't use adorable any more. 现在孩子们会对新学生说
Now the children will say to a new student, 我知道你为什么不再不守规矩了
I know why you don't behave. 因为我厌倦告诉Ms. Collins我有多棒了
Coz I'm tired of telling Ms. Collins how wonderful I am. 她非常棒
Now she is wonderful. 这是她的书
Here is her book. 对于那些...我知道
Now for all those-- I know that 你们中有些人对教书有兴趣
there are quite a few of you who are interested in teaching, 如果有一本你要读的书 就是这本
and there's one book you want to read. It's this. 对于那些对做领导有兴趣的人
For all those of you who are interested in leadership 如果有一本你要读的书 就是这本
and there's one book you want to read. It's this. 对于那些已经是或以后想做父母的人
For all those of you who are or are interested in the future 如果有一本你要读的书
of becoming parents,and there's one book you want to read. 就是这本
It's this. 对于剩下的人
For all the rest of you, 如果有一本你要读的书...
if there's one book you want to read. 她传递的信息是什么?
So what's her message? 首先
First of all, 她本身就是榜样
she herself is the message as a role model. 她和孩子们学习榜样
And she studied with her kids,role models. 他们读小说 历史书
They read fiction books. They read historical books. 他们读关于英雄的书 谈论英雄的事
They read books about heroes and talk about heroes. 他们都认清了谁是榜样
They all identify role models. 他们从社区里挑出榜样
They identify role models in their neighborhood, 在家庭里挑出榜样 不断地这样做
in their families,constantly doing that, 这就是你培养心理弹性要做的事
which is exactly what you need to cultivate resilience. 首先 她就是榜样
First and foremost,she herself is the role model. 她有着很高的期望
She has high expectations. 我们要大量练习自信
We are going to do a lot of believing in ourselves. 我们要表现优秀 我们要成功
We are going to do well,succeed. 她有很多期待 她能看到潜力
She expects a lot.She sees the potential. 她欣赏每个人的潜力
She appreciates that potential in each individual. 停止抱怨别人 承担自己生活的责任
Stop blaming others. Take responsibility for your life. Marva Collins并不是软弱的人
Marva Collins is no push-over. 教室里的她要求很严格
If you see her in the classroom,she is tough. She is demanding. 同时 她尊重每个人
At the same time,she respects each individual. 她不是不切实际的"感觉良好"
She is not one of the Pollyannish "feel-good", 我们不惜一切代价让他们感觉良好
"let's make them all feel good" at all cost. 根本不是
Not at all. 她相信他们 她尊重他们
She believes in them.She respects them. 而且她要求很严格
And she is tough and demanding-- 这是领导的重要因素
important combination for leadership. 这就是为什么我之前提到
It's why I mentioned earlier 它是一本好的领导书籍
in the context of great leadership book. 有很多非常和善的前总裁
There are many very nice ex-CEOs 他们的主要目标就是和善和受欢迎
whose primary aim was to be nice and to be liked, 完成工作的关键
the keys to get the job done, 完成事情的关键
to get the work done, 同时也要尊重他人
while being respectful. 她有乐观精神
Sense of optimism. 你可以做好
You can do well. 你会做得很好
You are going to do well, 帮助他们为自己和社区设立目标
helping them set goals for themselves and for community. 最后
And finally, 从专注缺点到专注优点
from focusing on deficiencies to focusing on strength. 来自教育学校的Howard Gardner
Howard Gardner from the ED(Education) school here talks about 谈到了多元智力 他说我们要停止问
multiple intelligences,says that we need to stop asking 一个学生是否聪明
whether or not a student is smart. 我们要问这个学生有什么优点
What we need to ask is what is the student smart at. 认清这个学生的优点
And when we identify what that student is smart at, 长处之后 我们便欣赏它
strong at,virtuous at,good at,then we appreciate it. 当我们欣赏它的时候
And when we appreciate it, 优点和那整个人都会增值
it and the whole person appreciates. 假如有一粒种子...种子是有潜力的
What would happen to a seed-- seed is potential-- 它会长成花草树木...假如有一粒种子
flower,tree-- what would happen to a seed, 如果它没有受到灌溉 没有阳光照耀会怎样?
if it is not watered,if no light is shed on it? 它会枯萎死去
It will wither and die. 人类的潜力也是这样
The exact same thing with human potential. 如果我们不灌溉它 如果我们不照耀它
If we don't water it,if we don't shed a light on it, 它会枯萎死去
it will wither and die. 人际关系也是这样
The same with interpersonal relationship potential. 如果我们...我们会经常谈到关系
If we don't-- we'll talk a lot about relationships: 如何培养健康长期的关系
how to cultivate healthy long-term relationships-- 如果你不灌溉它 不照耀它
if you don't water it,if you don't shed light, 如果你不欣赏它的好处 好处就会贬值
if you don't appreciate the good,the good will depreciate. 本质上
Essentially, Marva Collins所做的
what Marva Collins does is create for students-- 也就是心理弹性的作用就是
what the research in resilience does is 缔造一个与传统智慧不同的榜样
create a very different model than the conventional wisdom. 范式转移实质上是从被动接受者...
The paradigm shift essentially is from being a passive victim 也就是政府没有投入足够资金
because the government is not putting enough money, 这是一个问题 应该重视
which is an issue,not belittling it. 用外部条件 比如资源
It's important to have those external 影响内在性格很重要
affect the internal like more resources. 但那并不足够
But that's not enough. 从一个不积极 被动的受害者
From an inactive,from a passive victim, 成为一个主动的人 她改变了看法
she changes her perspective to be an active agent. 你并非"不可教"
You are not "unteachable". 你可以发展 你可以做好 你可以成功
You can thrive. You can do well.You can succeed. 而她所做的实质上
And what she does,essentially, 就是把他们带到连续体的极点
is take them to the extreme of continuum,because every event, 因为每件事每个人都处于连续体的某处
every person can be situated somewhere along this continuum, 我是说 不同的地方和不同的事物
I mean different places with different things. 想想你自己的生活
Think about your own life. 你是哪种人?
What are you, 各种情况的被动受害者还是主动者?
passive victim in different situations or an active agent? 例如 假如说我女朋友离开了我
For example,let's say my girlfriend leaves me. 当我还是这里的学生的时候
I know when I was an undergrad here. 我主要想的是 我女朋友要离开我了
This was top on my mind: girlfriends leaving me. 是的
Yes. 那点我们以后再谈
We'll talk about that later in this semester 当我们熟悉彼此之后
when we get to know one another a little bit better. 现在我有点害羞
I'm a little bit shy at this point. 但是假如我女朋友离开了我
But let's say my girlfriend leaves me. 如果我是被动受害者 那我只会自怜
If I am the passive victim,what I experience is self-pity. 为自己感到难过 思考
Feel sorry for myself. ruminate-- remember the word? 思考这种情况以及它有多糟糕
Ruminate about the situation and how terrible it is. 我从一个被动受害者变成抱怨者
她很糟糕
From a passive victim,I then move to blame: she's terrible; 都是她的错 我怨她
it's her fault; I blame her; 我抱怨我的父母 他们养育不当
I blame my parents,the way they raise me; 我抱怨她的父母 我抱怨布什总统
I blame her parents; I blame President Bush or whomever. 抱怨之后 我变得沮丧和愤怒
And after I blame,I experience frustration as well as anger. 对她生气 对我父母生气 对她父母生气
Anger toward her,toward my parents,her parents, 布什总统 希拉里 总之我很愤怒
President Bush,Hilary,whoever it is. I feel anger. 结果呢 很少结果
And results-- very few results. 因为我沉迷于反思和自怜中
Because I wallow in illumination and self-pity. 我们再反观积极主动者
Let's take the other extreme of the active agent. 首先 从定义来看 我会行动
First of all,by definition,I take action. 我承担责任
I take responsibility. 经历痛苦之后我会到处走走
I go on to places after experiencing the pain-- 它很痛苦 下节课我们会谈谈
it's painful,and next time we are going to talk about 经历痛苦的重要性
the importance of experiencing the pain of giving ourselves 谈谈允许自己人性化
what I called the permission to be human, 但是我经历痛苦之后 我会行动
but once I experience it,I take action. 我去能认识他人的地方
I go out there to places where I will meet someone. 我去匹诺曹(哈佛的比萨店)
I go to Pinnochio's (Pizza place at Harvard). 或者另一个约会地点
Or another meeting place,the Stax in Whitener (?). 我想时世变迁了
Well I guess things have changed 现在的哈佛和我毕业时的不同了
at Harvard since I was an undergrad. 我承担责任
I take responsibility for it. 这样做的结果是...
And then as a result of that-- 我们会谈谈自我知觉理论
and we'll talk about research on self-perception theory, 它是Daryl Bem的研究
research by Daryl Bem. 我们会详细讨论它 你不用现在把它写下来
We'll talk a lot about it. You don't need to write it down now. 我会行动 行动会增加我们的自信
I'll take action and action will increase our level of confidence 结果是更多的希望和乐观
And then more hope and optimism is a result. 就像在自我应验预言课程中所说的
As we talk about belief in self-fulfilling prophecy lecture, 希望和乐观会变成自我应验预言
hope and optimism become a self-fulfilling prophecy. 我更容易找到伴侣
I'm much more likely to find someone. 我更可能变得开心
I'm certainly much more likely to be happy. 重申一次 作为积极主动者
Once again,being an active agent 并不意味着不给我们自己时间
does not mean not giving ourselves the time, 空间去让自己感受痛苦的情感
the space,the permission to experience painful emotions, 以及摆脱这种情感
to go through the emotion. 没错 我们一定会摆脱它 然而
Yes,by all means,we go through it. However, 我们要在适合的时间...
what it is also saying is that we need to find the right time-- 它可能是现在 可能是一两天后
it could be immediately,it could be a day or two later-- 去行动 去承担责任 去做事情 这样
to take action,to take responsibility,to do things so that 我们对希望和乐观的自信就会增加
our confidence levels in our hope and optimism increase. 我要说几件关于
I want to just say a few things about this idea 做一个积极主动者及责任的事
of being an active agent and responsibility. 它可以融入你的哈佛生活 这取决于你
It applies to your life here at Harvard. It is up to you. 让你的哈佛时光充满意义
It is your responsibility to make the most out of 是你的责任
your Harvard experiences. 从这门课程学尽量多的东西是你的责任
It is your responsibility to make the most out of this class. 我们作为教师
We,the teaching staff, 肯定会为它创造条件
are certainly going to create conditions for it. 我们会以各种方式支持你们
We are going to support you in every way that you need. 然而 最终
However,ultimately, 小组讨论是你们的责任
it's your responsibility to do it in section. 作出行动是你们的责任
It's your responsibility to make it. 下周你们在小组里
One of the first questions that you'll be asking question 首先要问的问题之一就是
in section next week when they start to meet is "你如何让它成为一个优秀的小组?"
"how can you make this an excellent section?" "你能做什么? 你能有什么贡献?"
"What can you do?" "what can you bring? "你能给小组带来什么优势"
What strength can you bring into the section "让它成为一个优秀的小组?"
so that it's an excellent section?" 而不是抱怨其他学生 组长 布什 克林顿
As opposed to blaming,other students,TF,Bush,Clinton,whoever 你要为它承担责任
Taking responsibility for it. 关于责任 有一个很好的故事
There is a wonderful story about responsibility Nathaniel Branden的书里提到了
in the book by Nathaniel Branden. 当我们谈到自尊时
We are going to read some stuff by Nathaniel Branden 我们要读点Nathaniel Branden的东西
when we talk about self-esteem. Nathaniel Branden谈到了六根支柱
Nathaniel Branden talks about six pillars 自尊的六根重要支柱
six important pillars in self-esteem. 其中一根就是自我负责
One of those pillars is self-responsibility. 自尊心强的人会承担责任
People who have high self-esteem take responsibility. 想培养高自尊心
People who want to cultivate high self-esteem 培养自信的人会承担责任
and create confidence,take responsibility 承担生活的责任等等
for their lives and so on. 在他的研讨会上 他在书中说到的
So in his workshop,one of the main things that he says 主要一件事就是 明白你必须
there in his book is that understanding that you have to 为生活承担责任就是理解
take responsibility for your life is recognizing understanding 没人会来
that no one is coming. 没人会来...穿着闪亮铠甲的骑士
No one is coming to-- the knight in shining armour 不会来带你到幸福乐园
who will take you to the happily-ever-after land. 没人会来让你的生活更美好
No one is coming to make your life better for you. 没人会来
No one is coming. 你为自己的生活负责 获得自信
You are responsible for your life,for your self-confidence, 自尊 幸福
for your self-esteem,for your happiness. 没人会来
No one is coming. 他在研讨会上谈到了这个
So he was talking about this in one of his workshops 那是一个为期三天的研讨会
that's a three-day workshop. 这已经是第三天了
And this was already on the third day 研讨会进展顺利
and the workshop was going well. 参与者都学到了很多
The participants were getting a lot out of it. 他说 他告诉他们没人会来
And he said,he told them about this idea that no one is coming. 其中一名参与者举手说
And one of the participants raises his hand and says, "Branden博士 事实并非这样"
"Dr. Branden,that's not true." Nathaniel Branden问他"为什么?" 他说
And Nathaniel Branden asks him,"What do you mean?" And he says, "Branden博士 你来了" Branden回应道
"Dr. Branden,you came",to which Branden responded, "没错 我来了 但我是来告诉你没人会来"
"Yes,I came. But I came to tell you that no one is coming." 没人会来
No one is coming. 能否最大限度地从这次经历中获益全在于你
It's up to you to make the most out of this experience, 1504号课程 你的小组 你的哈佛经历等等
1504,your sections,your Harvard experiences and beyond. 我们作为教师
And we,as the teaching staff, 我们迫不及待想为之创造适合条件
can't wait to create the right conditions for that to happen. 星期四再见
See you on Thursday. 



 Chapter 2: 幸福是一种随机现象吗？


早上好 同学们
Good morning,everyone. 今天是本学期正式开学的第一天
This semester has started,officially today. 很高兴在这看到你们
Glad to see you here. 我只想说几句话
Just a couple of announcement 还有向进修学院的同学们打声招呼
and also hi to the extension school students. 上次我们向新西兰的同学问好
Last time we say hi to New Zealand. 今天轮到爱尔兰的同学了
Today we are saying hi to Ireland. 现在先说这里的本科生和研究生
In terms of sectioning 分组问题
for the undergrads and graduate students here, 你们明天会收到Sean Achor的邮件
you'll get an email from Sean Achor tomorrow. 你们填好各自的想加入的小组
And you'll put in your section preference. 我们本周会分好小组
We are sectioning this weekend. 选择你最想加入的组非常重要
So it will be important that you submit your top preferences. 下周我们就开始
And next week we are starting. 还记得上节课的问题吗
Last time,if you remember the question that we ask, 最主要的问题是"为什么要学习积极心理学?"
the guiding question was "why positive psychology?" 我提到了三个原因
And I mentioned three reasons, 为何我们把它作为独立的研究 而不简单地
Why we need it as an independent field as opposed to just being "研究一下幸福和爱情"
"well,let's do some studies on happiness,on relationships" 不像一贯人们所做的那样?
as it is always being done? 我们需要积极心理学是为了改变
The reason why we need positive psychology is to shift 现在的21比1这个比率
the pendulum from the 21:1 ratio that we have today: 每有一项关于抑郁或焦虑的研究
for every one study on depression or anxiety, 就有21项 对不起
we have 21 studies on-- sorry, 应该是每有一项关于快乐或幸福的研究
for one study on happiness or wellbeing, 就有21项关于抑郁或焦虑的研究
we have 21 studies on depression and anxiety. 我们想稍微改变这个比率
We want to shift the pendulum slightly. 我提过三个原因
And I mentioned three reason 关于为什么要改变这个比率
why we want to shift this pendulum despite the fact 尽管世界上越来越多人抑郁
that there are rising levels of depression around the world, 而焦虑就像是全球性流行病
that anxiety has become epidemic globally— 遍布美国 中国 澳大利亚 英国所有大学
on college campuses in United States,China,Australia,UK. 尽管如此 我还是认为我们该改变那比率
Despite that fact,I argue that we need to shift the pendulum 做更多"积极研究" 或者说
and do more "positive research",or in other words, 集中研究可行的事
research that focuses on what works. 原因在于
And the reason is— 我们之前讨论完的第一个原因是
the first reason that we gave and we are just finishing up is 我们提出的问题很重要
because the question that we ask, 无论它是不是我们的研究问题
whether it's the research questions that we ask, 或我们为自己所问的
or the questions that we ask of ourselves, 或为我们的伴侣问的
or our partners,matter. 如果我们只问同一类问题
And if our only questions, 或只是问"有哪些不如意的事?
or primarily our questions are "what is not working? 出什么问题了?
What is the problem? 为什么那么多孩子因为成长环境而堕落?"
Why are so many kids failing as a result of their circumstances?" 如果我们只问了这些问题
If we only ask these questions, 就会错过现实中很重要的部分
we will miss,literally miss an important part of reality, 像你们在练习中没看到公车上的孩子一样
just like you missed the children on the bus in the exercise. 你们大多数人都没看到
Most of you did. 如果我们也问积极问题
And if we also ask the positive question, 那就会出现新的可能性 新的探索
then some new possibilities,new quests open up, 就像他们对研究学者所问的一样
just like they did for the researchers when they started to ask 不再问"为什么有这么多人堕落?"
no longer "why do so many individuals fail?" 而问"那些人是怎样取得成功的?
but started to ask "what do some individuals do and succeed? 为什么有些人能成功
Why do some individuals succeed 即使成长环境恶劣?"
despite the unfavorable circumstances?" 我们会以Marva Collins的故事为例
And then we have the story of Marva Collins, 她的例子很典型 能说明很多观点
who exemplifies so many of themes 这些观点会贯穿我们整节课
that we'll talk about throughout the course. Marva Collins所做的
What Marva Collins did 就是帮助她的学生从消极的受害者-
was help her students shift from the passive victim— 你是成长环境的受害者
you are victims of your circumstances, 是你的家庭教育 邻里关系 和社会环境的受害者
of your upbringing,neighborhood,country, 诸如此类的 从消极的受害者变成积极的作用者
whatever it is—from a passive victim to an active agent. 是的 那很困难 艰辛 不公平
Yes,it's difficult. It's tough. It's unfair. 但这是你自己的责任 没人会来帮你
However,it's your responsibility. No one is coming. 能否改变自己的人生 由你自己决定
It's up to you to make that difference in your life. 但她改变了千千万万人的人生
And she made a difference to thousands of people's lives 现在还在这么做
and continues to do so. 换句话说 如果我们看看芝加哥学院体制
In other words,if we look at the case of Chicago school system Marva Collins就在那体制下执教
where Marva Collins was teaching,the conventional, 还是那个老问题
traditional question was-- if you remember— "怎样才能让学生们在学校
"how can we keep these students in school 留得久一点?
for as long as possible? 如何让他们在10或12岁后还留在学校
How can we keep them in school beyond the age of 10 or 12 让他们远离街头帮派?
so that they don't join street gangs? 让他们远离毒品和犯罪?"
So that they are not hurt by drugs or crime?" "如何使他们安全地留在学校?"
"How can we keep them safe at school?"— 这是个很重要的问题 但还不只如此
An important question to ask. However,not enough. Marva Collins重新定义这个问题
Marva Collins comes along and reframes the question. 她提出的问题是
And her question becomes "我们如何培养学生 激发他们的潜能?"
"how can we cultivate the seed of greatness in our student?" 这问题改变了一切
And that,once again,made all the difference, 因为她看到了每个学生的潜能
because she saw the seed of greatness in each student. 她看到每个学生身上的优点和品德
She saw the strength,the virtues in each single student. 潜能 优点 品德 能力
A seed,a strength,a virtue,a competence 这些是其他老师没看到的
that other teachers did not see, 因为他们没提出这个问题
because they did not ask this question; 打个比方 他们只会问
because they asked,metaphorically speaking, "你在屏幕上看到多少个几何图案?"
"how many geometric shapes do you see on the screen?" 他们完全忽略了车上的孩子
And they completely missed the children on the bus. 完全忽略了学生的潜能
They completely missed the seed of greatness. 如果我们看不见学生的潜能
And when we don't see the seed of greatness, 不去栽培它
when we don't water it and shed a light on it, 它就会枯萎而死
it withers and dies, 遗憾的是 大部分人类潜能都因此而被磨灭
which is unfortunately the fate of most human potential. 无论在哪 这都是大部分人类潜能的遭遇
Wherever we go,that is the fate of most human potential— 人与人之间 很多团体中
interpersonally,relationships,in most organizations, 很多大学里或人们自己 这些潜能都因被忽视而磨灭
in most universities,in most individuals. 疑问引起改变
Questions make a difference, 因此提问是非常重要的
which is why it is also important to ask 提出积极心理学的问题很重要
the positive psychology question, 也就是"健康创成"的问题
which is the salutogenic question: "健康源于什么?成功源于什么?
"What is source of health? What is the source of success? 幸福源于什么?"
What is the source of wellbeing?" 这是第一个原因 而第二个原因是
So that's the first reason. The second reason— 在谈第二个原因时
before I go to the second reason, 如果Marva Collins今天在场
if Marva Collins is here today, 那她会问我们这个问题:
here's the question she would be asking us: "我们如何在于自身和家人中
"How can we cultivate the seed of greatness 栽培伟大的种子
in ourselves and families, 如何在在社区和团体中 栽培伟大的种子
in our communities and organizations, 在国家和世界中呢"
in our nation and in our world?" 当我们提出这个极为重要的问题
When we ask this question-- this very important question, 就会看到之前没看到的潜能
suddenly we see possibilities that we didn't see before. 第二个研究积极心理学的原因
Second reason for having positive psychology's field of study 研究可行的事和
and focusing on what works and focusing on 研究快乐 人际关系 幸福的原因
research in happiness,relationships and wellbeing 是因为幸福不会因为驱除了忧愁
is because happiness does not spontaneously rise 而自动增长
when take unhappiness away. 幸福与忧愁 快乐与紧张
Now happiness and unhappiness,or happiness and neurosis, 精神病与抑郁 都有很大的内在联系
psychosis and depression,are interconnected,of course. 要快乐并不容易
It's very difficult to be happy 如果我们感觉很压抑或焦虑
if we are experiencing severe depression or anxiety. 就是说他们必然是有关联的 然而
So they are certainly interconnected. However, 单单摆脱焦虑与压抑并不会
just getting rid of the anxiety and the depression will not in 使我们快乐
and of itself make us happy, 这一点算是传统的常识
which is the conventional wisdom today, 是很多从业的心理学家
which is the conventional wisdom 会了解的一点常识
of many psychologists practicing psychologies— "摆脱抑郁
"Well,let's just get rid of that depression 一切都会变好的"
and everything will be fine." 事实并非如此
It won't. 解释这一点的一个例子是
The analogy to explain this is think about 享受美食的能力
the ability to enjoy food. 美味大餐
A gourmet meal. 如果我们消化不良 那很难享受美食
Now if we have indigestion,it's very difficult to enjoy food. 因此我们得先治好消化不良
So yes,we first need to get rid of the indigestion. 然而 治好消化不良
However,that in and of itself 不保证我们就能享受美食
does not guarantee us that we enjoy food. 要享受美味大餐 就得出去吃
We have to go out and eat the gourmet food to enjoy it. 只是治愈消化不良远远不够
Just getting rid of indigestion is not sufficient. 还要做好下一步的事
We need the next step. 可以从多方面来看我们的经验
In many ways you can look at most of our experiences, 在心理连续谱上看有效心理经验
psychological effective experiences on a continuum, 有时候会跌倒0以下
where some of them fall below the zero, 不愉快或痛苦的经历
the negative experiences or the painful experiences 积极或愉快的经历
and the positive or the pleasurable experiences 分别在0与正值之间
between the zero and the positive. 紧张 愤怒 焦虑 压抑 精神病
Neurosis,anger,anxiety,depression,psychosis— 这些消极和痛苦的方面
to name a few-- on the negative side,the painful side; 幸福 满足 愉悦 兴奋 快乐
wellbeing,satisfaction,joy,excitement,happiness 属于另一方面
on the other side 也就是积极心理学研究的方面
which is the side of positive psychology studies. 再强调一次 摆脱消极
Again,getting rid of the negative 不能保证我们变得积极
does not guarantee us the positive, 因此早在19世纪40年代
which is why already in the 1840s, 梭罗
David Henry Thoreau (should be Henry David Thoreau), 认为 大多数人都活在沉默的压抑中
wrote that most men lead lives of quiet desperation. 这是没错的
It's Ok. There's nothing really wrong. 但平克弗洛伊德说过
But it's just somewhere there in the words of Pink Floyd "人们在舒适地麻木" 舒适地麻木
"people are comfortably numb". Comfortably numb. 还不止如此 我们要怎样摆脱这种"舒适地麻木"?
Not enough. How can we get beyond that "comfortably numb"? 要怎样摆脱"沉默的压抑"?
How can we get beyond that "quiet desperation"? 得到振奋 快乐 幸福?
To excitement,to joy,to happiness? 为了达到这目的 我们需用心经营这些情感因素
In order to do that,we need to cultivate these traits. 再说一次 幸福不会自动出现
Once again,they don't spontaneously emerge 并不是没有痛苦就能感到幸福
once the painful experiences go away. 因此我们才需要积极心理学
And that is why we need positive psychology. 积极心理学本质上就是健康模型
Positive psychology essentially focuses on the health model, 健康本源学
Salutogenesis. 健康 生理 心理 情感之源是什么?
What is the source of health,physical,psychological,emotional? 我们如何让人们从智力上 情感上
How do we get people to flourish,intellectually,emotionally, 心理上 人际关系上 人格上全面发展?
psychologically,interpersonally,intra-personally? 我们如何让他们全面发展 而不仅仅是帮他们摆脱
How do we get them to thrive beyond just getting rid 生活中不如意的事?
of what is not working in their lives? 根据该模型 我们在许多层面上都走了极端
And under that model we see,to extremes on many levels. 第一个层次:
Here,the first level: 我们是否重视缺点
do we focus on weaknesses, 也就是疾病模型所说的我们要摆脱的缺点
which is the disease model,say let's get rid of weaknesses? 或者说 我们是否专注于优点?
Or do we focus on strength? 当你问别人这个问题
While you ask people this question, 盖洛普组织做了这项研究
and this was done by the Gallup organization. 一项全球民意调查显示
A poll-- global poll, 无论是在日本 中国 美国或欧洲
whether it's in Japan,China,United States or Europe: 大多数人认为 如果要成功
most people think that it's more important 注重自己的缺点比优点更重要
to focus on their weaknesses if they are to succeed. 大错特错
Big mistake. 那些同样注重自己优点的人
The people who focus primarily,not only-- remember the "also"— 改变那个比率的人 更注重优点的人
who shift the pendulum,who focus more on their strength, 不仅更开心 从长远来看他们也
are not only happier,they are also,on the long run, 更成功
more successful. 这同样适用于领导能力
It applies to leadership as well. 积极心理学认为 我们至少
Positive psychology says let's focus also 注重优点的程度要和注重缺点一样多
on our strength at least as much. 无论是组织还是个人自身
In an organization,as well as on the individual level, 我们最注重的是克服缺点
are we focusing most on overcoming deficiencies 还是培养才能?
or building the competencies— 我们擅长什么 并是否取得了进步?
what we are good at-- and getting better at it? 个人或组织的自然倾向是什么
What our natural inclination,individually or organizationally— 我们是否更注重自己的自然倾向?
do we focus on that and then build on that? 注重健康的同时也要注重幸福
Again,tie to success as well as wellbeing, 如果我们是较为积极的话
if we are more toward the positive side. 我们如何活出自己的精彩?
How do we live our lives? 如何摆脱痛苦的经历
Running away from painful experiences? 或积极寻找快乐?
Or actively seeking pleasure? 如何摆脱悲伤?
Running away from unhappiness? 还是遵循宣言(独立宣言)行事
Or adhering to the Declaration (Declaration of Independence) 追求幸福?
and pursuing happiness? 举个例 下面的两种人看起来非常相似
Now that may look quite similar-- for example, 某人可能每周工作80小时
someone may be working 80 hours a week, 他习惯逃避 逃避家事
running away from something-- running away from issues at home, 逃避处理私事
running away from dealing intra-personal issues 但他看起来却和下面这种人一样
and then may look exactly the same as the person 她每周工作80小时 对工作
who works 80 hours a week and who's extremely passionate 充满热情
about what she does. 表面看来他们一样 但他们的内心感觉很不同
May look the same but from the inside,they feel very different. 一种是疾病模型
One is the disease model: 让我们逃避不如意的事
let's run away from what is not working. 另一种是健康模型
The other is the health model: 让我们追求激情 追求喜欢做的事
let's pursue my passions,what I love to do. 对疾病模型而言 最优水平是零
The disease model,the optimum level is the zero: 我们都平平安安 别受伤就好了
let's just be Ok; let's just not hurt. 再说一次 免受伤害是非常重要的
And again,that's important to get rid of hurt. 摆脱抑郁非常重要
It's important to get rid of depression. 但依健康模式来看 这是不够的
But with the health model,they are saying that's not enough; 让我们超越那种程度
let's go beyond that. 让我们兴奋起来 快乐起来
Let's go to the excitement,to the fun. 因为理想状态并不只是放松
Because the ideal is not just a tensionless state. 它是创造性的紧张状态
It is the creative tension. 我们会谈到它 会读到相关的文章
We'll talk about it. We'll read about it. 当我们"沉迷"之时 那就是我们感到兴奋
When we do "flow". Flow is the state where we are excited, 为所做之事着迷的状态
where we are engaging what we are doing, 那样大大超越了"舒适地麻木"
where it's much more than being "comfortably numb". 事实上 在那种状态下会有点不舒适
In fact,it's a little bit uncomfortable. 那是在我们舒适区之外的
It's being outside of our comfort zone. 可算是我们的延伸地带
It's being in our stretch zone— 不是会让人受伤的恐慌地带 而是延伸地带
not the panic zone,where it hurts-- the stretch zone, 其中有兴奋 还有点紧张
where there is excitement,where there's some nervousness. 还可能会有成长
There is also growth there. 所以 你的目的是什么?
So what do you want? 你想去哪?你要追求什么?
Where do you want to go? What do you want to pursue? 你想逃避愉悦吗?想逃避痛苦吗?
Do you want to run away from pleasure-- run away from pain? 你想逃避不快乐吗?
Do you want to run away from unhappiness? 还是你想追求幸福和快乐?
Or do you want to pursue happiness and pleasure? 你更注重你的不足之处
Do you want to focus primarily on your deficiencies 或缺点吗?
or your weaknesses? 还是更注重优点?
Or your strength? 什么是最有利的选择?什么是理想状态?
What is the optimum? what is the ideal? 有无形的障碍 零点吗?
Is there a glass ceiling-- the zero? 还是可以继续
Or can it go on and on— 寻找到更多的刺激 享受 激情?
more excitement,more enjoyment,more passion? 有一些关于健康模型的可怕说法
Now there's something frightening about the health model. 因为没有界线 如今它的使用程度
Because there is no limit and there is less prescription there 也远比疾病模型少
certainly today than in the disease model. 积极心理学
Positive psychology, 健康心理学的研究还处于初级阶段
the field of health psychology is in infancy. 而且有更多的研究是关于
There's much more research, 如何摆脱抑郁
much more advice on how to get rid of depression 如何发展自己的优点
and how do I pursue my strength. 但幸运的是 这就是为什么要学习积极心理学
But fortunately,again,this is why positive psychology as 大量的学者致力于
a network of scholars applying themselves 研究这些观点 它意义非凡
to these ideas and ideals. It's so important 因为今天你们会看到整个学期的概览
because today you'll see throughout the semester 有很多方法可以让我们的生活质量
that there are so many more tools that we can apply to our lives, 达到正值
to go beyond the zero. 这还不是全部
That's not all. 我说过有三个原因
So I said there are three reasons. 关键在于我们侧重点 侧重点创造现实
It's about where we focus,focus creates reality; 快乐并不只是对不快乐的否定
it's about happiness is not just a negation of unhappiness; 积极心理学之所以重要的第三个原因是
the third reason why positive psychology is important 积极心理学领域
is because positive psychology and the areas 还有与积极心理学
that we study and more importantly, 相关的领域
apply within the field of positive psychology, 不仅让我们从零点上升到正值
do not just take us from the zero to the positive. 积极心理学还帮助我们处理消极情绪
They also help us deal with the negative. 帮助我们处理焦虑不安
They help us deal with anxiety, 处理抑郁和痛苦的经历 及情感问题
depression and painful experiences and emotions. 当我们培养出积极性
When we cultivate the positive, 我们本质上是自我防御的
we are essentially focusing on prevention. 我解释一下
Let me explain. 过去10年多时间的研究发现
What has been found over the last 10 years 处理我们不断增加的抑郁病例
and a little bit longer is the most effective way of actually 个体的抑郁或焦虑
dealing with a rising levels of depression in our culture, 最有效方法是
with individual depression or anxiety is actually not to 不要直接专注于抑郁和焦虑
focus on the depression and anxiety directly— 这点也很重要
that is important as well. 事实证明 处理这种现象
It is found that the most effective way 最有效的方法是
of dealing with this phenomenon was actually 培养积极性和个人优点
to cultivate the positive,to cultivate personal strengths, 培育激情
to cultivate and identify one's passions, 提出这种问题"我人生中什么是有意义的?
to ask a question such as "what is meaningful to me in my life? 我的目的是什么?我为什么在这里?
What's my purpose? Why am I here? 毕业后我真正想做的是什么?"
What do I really,really want to do once I graduate?" 提出这些问题
People who ask these questions 并认真思考这些问题的人
and spend time on these questions, 所追求的
are much more likely to begin a quest 不是避免痛苦
that is not the avoid of painful emotions— 而是
no quest is— 追求更多快乐
but the quest is more enjoyable,more pleasurable, 使生活更有意义 更成功
more meaningful and also,more successful as it turns out. 更重要的是 我将"更成功"
But more importantly,more successful in 称之为"终极货币"
what I call the "the ultimate currency"— 正如快乐货币和幸福货币一样
just as the currency of happiness and wellbeing. 究其原因 是因为有两种不同的方法
The reason is because there are two different approaches 对付疾病 一是积极心理学方法
to deal with illness: one,the positive psychological approach is 它指的是 疾病相当于不健康
that the illness is the absence of health, 相对地 健康等于没疾病
as opposed to health is the absence of illness. 我们想一下疾病模式
I mean,think about the disease model. 疾病模式是 "我们感到不适是因为生病了"
The disease model is "we are sick because we are ill"— 听到吗?我们病了是因为我们在生病
do you listen to that? We are sick because we are ill. 真的很深奥
That was very profound. 你们可能要好好想一下这句话
You should think about it for a while here. 可能要给点时间大家消化这话
I'll let a time just to marinate it little bit so that you can. 我重新说一遍
Let me start that again. 如果治好病 就会变得健康
If we take away the illness,then we become healthy. 这是个传统的模型
That's the model,the conventional model. 把病治好 就会变得健康 这很好
Take away the illness. You'll become healthy. It's good. 积极心理学模型略有不同
The positive psychological model is slightly different. 它说的是
It is "你生病了 是因为你的生活还不够健康
"you are ill because you don't have enough health in your life, 因为你不去追求那些让你健康的东西"
because you are not pursuing those things that make you healthy". 什么使你健康?
And what make you healthy? 这我之前已谈过 追求有意义的生活 人生的目的
The things I spoke about before: pursuing meaning,purpose; 培养健康的人际关系
cultivating healthy relationships. 如果不具备这些 疾病就会趁虚而入
If we don't have these things,that's when the illness comes in. 两种模型
Now the difference between the two models, 健康模型和疾病模型的差异
the health model and the disease model 不仅仅是语义上的
is more than just semantic. 这是Abraham Maslow所说的神经官能症
Here is Abraham Maslow talking about neurosis, "神经官能症描述的是人能变成怎样
"Neurosis is a falling short of what one could have been 或是他该变成怎样
and even one could say,of what one should have been, 从生理上来说就是是
biologically speaking that is 一个人是否能顺利地成长和发展
if one had grown and developed in an unimpeded way. 人类和个人的潜能已经消失
Human and personal possibilities have been lost. 世界逐渐缩小 意识也是
The world has been narrowed and so has consciousness. 能力也被抑制"
Capacities have been inhibited." 我来解释一下这话的意思
Let me explain what he means here. 他是说 我们正在生病 是因为我们没有
What he means is that we are ill because we do not cultivate 尽力做好我们本该做到的事
what we are about enough. 我们没做到自我实现
We do not become self-actualized. 没做到该做的
We don't do what we are supposed to do. 我们削弱自身力量 因此才会生病
We diminish ourselves and that's when we become ill. 才会不适
That's when we are unwell. 这和疾病模型所说的有很大不同
This is very different from the disease model that says, "好 你不舒服 那就治病去吧"
"Ok,you are unwell. Deal with that illness." 他说的是:"不 你不舒服
What he's saying: "No. You are unwell. 要注重健康 加强你的健康
Focus on your health. Strengthen your health. 因为你病了
Because you are ill, 因为你没有注重健康"
because you are not focusing enough on your health." 他将这称为
He calls that,and I quote, "个人成长的失败"
"a failure of personal growth". 如果我们感到焦虑
That's when we experience neurosis. 如果我们不注重培养自己的能力
When we don't cultivate ourselves enough, 不注重培养自己的人际关系 就会失败
we don't cultivate our relationships enough,that's when we fail. 积极心理学研究的是关于
And what the positive psychology is all about is precisely that— 培育自身成长和积极性
cultivating personal growth,working on the positive. 我们研究积极性 它处于这一边
And we work on the positive on what comes of this side 大家可以在这上面看到
of the graph that you saw up there. 在积极的一方 当我们注重培养这些情感因素
On the positive side,when we cultivate these things, 就会助于我们更好地处理
it also helps us deal much better 消极因素
with the negative when dead arises. 我想引用Martin Seligman的话
I want to quote Martin Seligman, 他说过这样一句话
who talks about precisely this idea: "在过去的十年
"In the last decade 心理学家关心的都是预防的问题
psychologists have become concerned with prevention. 怎样才能预防像抑郁症这样的心理问题
How can we prevent problems like depression 或年轻人中常出现的药物滥用或精神分裂症
or substance abuse or schizophrenia in young people 谁天生敏感脆弱 谁又是
who are genetically vulnerable or who live in worlds 制造这些问题的人?
that nurture these problems? 如何防止校园暴力
How can we prevent murderous schoolyard violence in children 这些暴力事件通常是由掌握武器 缺乏父母监管
who have access to weapons,poor parental supervision, 或受到教唆的孩子引起的
and a mean streak?" 他问了这个问题 根据疾病模型
Now he's asking this question and the disease model 我们需要帮助他们直接
response to this is we need to help them deal 处理抑郁症
directly with depression, 还有他们的焦虑和忧愁
with their anxiety and with their unhappiness 才能防止所有这些社会弊病
so that we can prevent all these social ills— 无论是暴力还是不快乐
whether it's violence,whether it's unhappiness. 他是这么说的
What he's saying here is the following: "五十多年的经验告诉我们 疾病模型
"What we have learned over fifty years is that the disease model 不能让我们更有力地预防
does not move us closer to the prevention 这些严重问题
of these serious problems. 事实上 在预防方面取得的重大进展
Indeed the major strides in prevention 基本上来自一个观点
have largely come from a perspective focused 也就是注重培养能力 而非改正错误"
on systematically building competency,not correcting weakness." 换句话说 健康模型倡导
In other words,the health model: 培养能力
let's work on competencies. 增强自身长处 改善人际关系
Let's work on strength. Let's work on relationship. 帮助人们找到对自己人生有意义的事
Let's help them identify something meaningful in their life, 和他们的热情所在
their passion. 那就是我们将要致力做到的
And that's how we will,over time, 同样对克服消极因素 有所帮助
also help what comes off on the negative side. 健康模型与疾病模型不同
Health model versus the disease model 疾病模型提倡直接处理疾病的
that goes directly to deal with the disease. Seligman不是说"排除"疾病模型
Now again,Seligman is not saying "to the exclusion of"; 而是说也可以用健康模型
he's saying "also". 他还说
He continues, 我们已发现有些人类的力量
"We have discovered that there are human strengths 能抵抗心理疾病
that act as buffers against mental illness: 勇气 未来规划 乐观 人际技巧
courage,future-mindedness,optimism,interpersonal skill, 信念 职业道德 希望 诚实 毅力
faith,work ethic,hope,honesty,perseverance, 专注及洞察力 诸如此类
the capacity for flow and insight,to name several. 研究证实 乐观可帮助儿童和成人
We'v e shown that learning optimism prevents depression 预防抑郁和焦虑
and anxiety in children and adults, 使未来两年的发病率降低一半
roughly halving their incidence over the next 2 years. 同样 如果我们要防止
Similarly,I believe that if we wish to prevent drug abuse 青少年受不良的社会环境影响
in teenagers who grow up in a neighborhood 而滥用药物的情况
that puts them at risk, 但预防的效果不佳
the effective prevention is not remedial. 相反 它认定并放大了这个事实
Rather,it consists of identifying and amplifying 就是青少年们已滥用药物"
the strengths that these teens already have." Marva Collins所做的就是
It's exactly what Marva Collins did: 注重健康并用心栽培它
focused on the health and cultivated it, 浇水 给予阳光并时刻关注它
watered it and shed a light to it,realized it. 对这些观点的探讨将贯穿整个课程
We'll talk about all these ideas throughout the course. 健康模式能做的就是-
What health model does— 这是我们这堂课着重讲的内容
this is the theme we go through all the course 培养能力
is cultivate capacity. 培养我们处理
It cultivates the capacity to deal 消极因素的能力
with the negatives when these arrive— 无论是人际关系上的消极和痛苦经历
whether it's negative and painful experiences in relationships, 还是我们自身的
or in ourselves. 那意味着什么 我为大家做两个类比
What does that mean? Let me draw two analogies. 培养能力就是创造一个强大的
Cultivating capacity is about creating a strong psychological 心理免疫系统
immune system. 这是Nathaniel Branden的观点
These are the words of Nathaniel Branden. 心理学免疫系统
Psychological immune system. 如果我们有强大的生理免疫系统会怎样?
What happens when we have a strong physical immune system? 这是否意味着我们不会生病?
Does it mean we don't get ill? 当然不是 还是会生病
Of course not. We do. 但这意味着我们不会常生病 就算病了
But it means that we get ill less often and when we do get sick, 也能恢复得更快
we recover more promptly. 这就是培养的力量
This is exactly what cultivating strength, 乐观 追求 意义 规划
optimism,sense of purpose,meaning,mindfulness— 正是这些因素的作用
this is exactly what these characteristics do. 他们会放大并改变
They enlarge transform— 我们看待和体验世界的方式
the way we see,the way we experience the world, 让我们突破框架 引发潜能
enlarge the capacity of the form and 使我们能更好地应对不可避免的困难
that's we are better able to deal the inevitable difficulties. 不可避免的困难的确存在
And there are inevitable difficulties. 没有谁的人生是一帆风顺的
No life is completely immune to those. 它可以增强我们的免疫系统
So it strengthens our immune system. 另一个类比是关于引擎的
And another analogy we can use is of an engine. 如果我们用的引擎很小
If we have a small engine, 想把车开上一个陡峭崎岖的山坡
and we have to pull the car up a steep hill,a difficult hill, 引擎很容易损毁 爆炸
the engine is more likely to collapse,to blow up. 但如果我们的引擎够大
Whereas If our engine is large, 要上那山就容易得多
we are much more likely to get up that hill, 不费吹灰之力就能做到
and to do it gracefully with relative ease. 所以我们在做的是 培养积极性
So what we are doing: we cultivate the positive; 按那个比喻来说 我们正在增强
we are strengthening our,metaphorically speaking, 心理"引擎"
psychological "engine"; 我们能够更好将负值转化为零
and we are better able to deal with the negative to zero, 更别说还能变得更快乐
not to mention the fact that we are also able to become happier. 因为快乐不会自发而来
Because happiness does not just come spontaneously 不会因为消除了忧愁 就变得快乐
when we negate unhappiness. 我想说说我们这里的事
I want to go back to our local village. 记得上次
So remember last time 我提出的《哈佛克里姆森》杂志里的文章
I put up the article by the Crimson (Harvard Crimson magazine) 很可惜我找不到
that was unfortunately I couldn't find 更近期一点的 那是2004年的?
a more recent one-- that was 2004? 但今天的情况非常相似
But the situation is rather similar today. 那篇文章提到的一点是
And one of the things that the Crimson article said is that 我们需要为哈佛学生的心理健康投入更多
we need to put more resources into mental health at Harvard. 这点很重要的 我非常赞同
And that's important,I agree. 这只是其中一点
However,it's only part of the picture. 投入到其他一些地方
in some different places as well-- not only,as well. 因为只是投入资源
Because it's just not enough to put these resources in places 帮助我们应对抑郁 焦虑和忧愁
that help us deal with our depression and anxiety 是远远不够的
and unhappiness directly. 同样重要的是 投入资源
It is also important to put these resources in places 帮助我们培养自身能力
that help us cultivate capacity, 应对困难和艰辛的能力
the capacity to deal with these difficulties and hardships 这些困难一直存在并会继续出现的
when they arise and they will arise. 换句话说 必须在以下方面投入更多资源
In other words,there has to be more resources put in places 例如帮助学生发掘
such as helping students identify their passions 自己的兴趣
when they come here, 帮助学生发现人生的意义
helping students identify their sense of meaning in life, 使他们明确自己
helping students identify what they 真正想做的事
really,really,really want to do, 帮助他们克服那种诱惑
helping students overcome the pull, 身边常出现的诱惑
the external pull that is often there, 会让他们偏离自己的道路
taking them away from their core, 还有凿掉那些束缚
helping them chip away those limitations, 摆脱杂念 帮助他们找到自己的真实个性
those voices,helping students identify who they really are, 还有帮助学生了解自己的强项
helping students identify their strengths 并在哈佛实现一切
and pursuing those while here at Harvard. 所有这些能力
All these capabilities, 所有这些技能 大多数都
all these skills or skills that are mostly— 我不只是说哈佛
and I'm not just talking about Harvard— 而是全球范围内 没有一所学校会教这些技能
globally-- not taught in schools. 所以我们需要教他们
And we need to teach them. 这并不是说哈佛现在
This is not to say that what is going at Harvard 正投入大量资源的方面不重要
with numerous resources that we do have here is not important. 这些方面都非常重要的
It is very important. 举个小例子
Just take a small example: 学习咨询处
the Bureau of Study Counsel. 我不知道你们有多少人利用过该资源
I don't know how many of you have used that resource. 我念本科时已开始接触它
I've used it as an undergrad. 至今还在与他们一起做某些工作
I still use it now,doing some work with them. 去年我与他们合作过
I did some work with them last year. 他们真的很棒
And they are wonderful. 同时 我们还需要培养积极性
And at the same time,we also need to cultivate the positive, 探究如何让我们从零点升到正直
to think more of the zero to the positive side 该如何做
of the equation as well. 这就是积极心理学的作用
And this is what positive psychology does 我希望1504号课程在一定程度上会有帮助
and I hope this is what 1504 to some extent will help do. 总之
To summarize, "积极心理学运动提醒我们
"the message of the positive psychology movement 这个领域已与过去不同
is to remind our field that it has been deformed. 心理学不仅是对疾病 弱点和伤害进行研究
Psychology is not just the study of disease,weakness,and damage 它也研究优点和美德
it also is the study of strength and virtue, 治疗不只是修复错误
Treatment is not just fixing what is wrong; 同时也要塑造正确的东西
it also is building what is right. 心理学关注的不仅仅是疾病或健康状况
Psychology is not just about illness or health; 还包括工作 教育 洞察力 爱 成长和玩乐
it is about work,education,insight,love,growth,and play. 在追求理想状态时
And in this quest for what is best, 积极心理学不会盲目主观
positive psychology does not rely on wishful thinking, 或自欺欺人 或敷衍了事
self-deception,or hand waving; 相反 它尝试用最科学的方法来探究
instead,it tries to adapt what is best in the scientific method 极其复杂的人类行为所表现出来的
to the unique problems that human behavior presents 特殊问题"
in all its complexity." 还涉及到如何将学校与社会连接起来
It's about bridging the Ivory tower and the Main Street 这个我认为最重要的领域
in the area that I believe is the most important one 对我们来说都有意义
and talks to each and every one of us. 好 我继续说下去
I want to move on now. 我想先说说下一节关于选择的课程
I want to move on to the next selective lectures— 两节或两节半课
two or two and a half lectures, 我将会谈到
where I am going to be talking about 本课程的基本前提
the basic premises of this course. 正如我刚才所说
As I said earlier, 本课程并不是积极心理学的调研课
this course is not a survey course of positive psychology. 这是关于选择"问题中的问题"的
It's very selective. It's about the question of questions. 有什么可以帮助我们个人
What can help us individuals, 帮助我们的社会更快乐 不是快乐 是更快乐
what can help our community become happier-- not happy,happier. 三个月后 期末时
So by the end of these three months semester, 你会变得更快乐
you are happier than you were before. 到学期末 你很可能比现在的你
You are from now,you'll be hopefully happier than you were 更快乐
at the end of the semester. 越来越快乐
And so on and so on. 基本前提是什么?
So what are the basic premises? 备课时我想和大家说些什么呢?
Where am I coming here when I think about this course? 我想为大家介绍
Well what I want to do is to share with you 五个基本前提
the five basic premises. 介绍这些前提 要从
And these premises are going to be presented as something and— 它的对立面说起
essentially it's opposite. 下面这些问题非常明确
So that were clear from the outset: 我们从哪里来 我从哪里来
where we are coming from,where I am coming from, 教学人员从哪里来
where the teaching staff is coming from— 了解这些后我们就能建立本课程的基础
and also so that we can build the foundation of the course. 记得一开始我就跟你们说过
Remember I talk those of you who were here the first time: 这课程就像个螺旋
this course is built like a spiral 内部的一切都是相关的
Everything is intra-connected, 第一节课讲到的内容
what I talked about in the first class is connected to 与今天要谈的课题有关
what I'm going to talk about today, 也和第19课有关
is going to be connected to lecture 19. 从许多方面来看 这个前提
So in many ways the premises, 跟我们开头的两节课有关
coupled with what we discussed in the first two lectures, 会建立这个螺旋的基础
build the foundation of that spiral, 那其他一切就更容易建起来
upon which everything else will be built. 这里有五个基本前提
So here are the five basic premises. 我会先简短地介绍一下 再逐个阐述
I'll go through them briefly now and elaborate on each 在接下来的几节课里 会分别对它们
in the next couple of lectures,interweaving them 进行学习 研究 和应用
with studies,research as well as applications. 正如我开始时提到的 这课程是关于搭建桥梁的
First,this course as I mentioned first is about bridge building: 搭建学科之间的桥梁 广集思源
bridge building among disciplines,eclectic, 并搭建学术界与社会之间的桥梁
and bridge building in terms of academia and Main street. 专业化常在学术界占主导地位
the specialization is very often dominant in academia. 本课程的做法
The approach of this course, 正好相反
with all its challenges,is the opposite. 如果我认为没有改变的可能
Once again I wouldn't be teaching this class, 就不会教这节课
if I didn't change is possible. 心理学的研究有很多
There is a lot of research in psychology, 很多证据显示 改变是非常困难的事
a lot of evidence that shows how difficult change is. 我认为改变是可能的
So I will argue that change is possible, 无论是个人变化
whether it's individual change, 还是组织变革
organizational change. 我们将探讨为什么是可能的
And we'll start to look at how it's possible. 这只是整个螺旋的最基本层次
Just the very basic level of the spiral. 我们本周只讨论"改变"
We have an entire week just devoted to change. 我们会详细讨论
We will elaborate on that: 技巧 方法 工具
techniques,methods,tools. 第三 这个前提与
Third,premise related to the first 决定幸福的内部因素有关
internal factors primarily determine happiness— 这是我要讨论的
this is what I'm going to argue for— 与决定幸福的
is opposed to happiness which is primarily function 外部环境无关
of external circumstances. 并不是说 外部环境不重要
Not saying that the external circumstances are not important, 我们同样应该注重改善外部环境
we should focus also on improving them,bettering them, 无论是我们自己 或对整个社会
whether for ourselves,for society at large. 然而 幸福主要
However,happiness primarily— 在于我们如何看待世界
not only,primarily—is dependent on how we perceive the world, 社会习俗规条 我们理性和感性上的认知
on the form,on our interpretation,on our perception. "只能顺从人性"
Human nature must be obeyed 在各个方面
This,in many ways, 这酿成了历史上许多冲突
captures conflict that has gone throughout human history, 无论是政治上 还是宗教上
whether you look at politics,whether you look at religion, 无论是哲学 还是心理学
whether you look at philosophy as well as today,psychology. 我们如何看待人性?
How do we look at human nature? 是人性有缺陷 因此需要进一步完善吗?
Is human nature flawed and therefore needs to be perfected? 还是尽管我们不喜欢人性中的缺陷
Or is human nature flawed maybe something we don't like 也必须接受它?
but we need to accept it and work with it? 我会谈到后者
I'm going to argue for the latter of what I just said, 就是说我们必须顺从于人性
for the fact that human nature needs to be obeyed 接受它所有的缺陷和优点
with all its flaws,with all its shortcomings, 而不是试图从心理层面上
as opposed to attempting to perfect it 完善它
on the psychological level. 我们下节课再说这话题
We'll get to that next time. 颇具争议的是
Controversial, 精神健康和幸福的重要基础
the very important foundation of mental health and wellbeing. 最后
And finally, 我想说的是 幸福不应该只是
what I am going to argue for is that happiness isn't ought to be 我们追求的最终目标 还是一种道德追求
the ultimate end which we pursue and that is also a moral claim, 而不是一种普通的追求
as opposed to happiness just being another secondary pursuit 但也有些追求
and there are pursuits— 是更高级 更重要 更高尚的
there are higher,more important,more moral than that. 这一点也颇具争议
Once again,may sound controversial. 我也会涉及疾病
I'll try reconcile the disease, 和大家也许关心过的忧愁
the unhappiness that you may experience thinking about that. 同样 这留待下节课再讲
Again,more on that next time. 现在我们先从搭建"桥梁"说起
So let me begin with bridge building. 说回第一节课开始时
Here I am going back to what I talked about right 谈到的问题
at the very beginning of the first lecture. 也就是 搭起学校与社会之间的桥梁的想法
The idea of bridging Ivory tower and Main Street. 学术界内外 都有很多人
There are many people in academia,outside academia, 将世界一分为二
who divide the world essentially into two. 他们将外面的世界看成是现实
They talked about the real world that is outside, 是肮脏的 不洁 被亵渎的 而学术界
that is dirty,impure,profane versus academia, 则是崇高的 有理想的 神圣的
which is lofty,idealistic,sacred. 神圣与亵渎
Sacred versus the profane. 这种区分带来伤害
This distinction hurts. 它同时伤害了学术界及非学术界的人
It hurts academia and hurts people who are outside of academia. 哲学家Alfred North Whitehead
Alfred North Whitehead,the philosopher: "大学小心翼翼地将我们
"The careful shielding of a university 与外界活动隔开
from the activities of the world around us 这样最容易打击学习兴趣 阻碍学习进步
is the best way to chill interest and to defeat progress. 大学不适合独身生活
Celibacy does not suit a university. 必须要与身边的人互动
It must mate itself with action." 这点对大学生活非常重要
This is very important for university. 他当时提到另一种心理学
talked about a second psychology. 他说另一种心理学就是
He said second psychology is a psychology 抛开实验室的研究
that leaves the labs that draws on the research done in the labs 实验室研究意义重大
that is important and meaningful, 但不只是注重这种研究
however,doesn't only focus on that. 而是走到外面的世界
It goes out to the outside world, 与外界互动 接触那些"肮脏"事物
interacts,gets its hand and mind dirty, 在外面工作 并吸取经验
does work outside and then applies its work 从"肮脏经验"中学习
and learns from "the dirty experiences" 将得到的经验带回实验室
and brings it back to the lab 诸如此类 就像一个上升的螺旋
and so on and so on in an upward spiral. 他称之为重要的另一种心理学
He called it the important second psychology, 这也是Alfred North Whitehead所提倡的
which is what Alfred North Whitehead is also talking about. 现在你们来到这里
Now you may be sitting here 且大多数人将来都不会进入学术界
and most of you aren't going to academia. 你可能会想
And you are thinking to yourself, "好 学术界要结合实践做研究
"Ok,fine. So university,academia must make itself with action. 那与我有何关系?我们的联系在哪?"
What does it have to do with me? How is this relevant to me?" 它不仅与你有联系 它与你息息相关
Not only is it relevant to you,it has everything to do with you. 下面就是原因
And here's why. 世界最需要的
What the world needs, 不是其他什么 就是务实的理想主义者
more than anything else,is practical idealists. 我做过6年莱弗里特宿舍的住校导师
For 6 years,I was a resident tutor in Leverett House 我研究生在读时 就开始任教
when I was a graduate student and then I also started to teach. 在与学生的交谈中 让我印象最深的是
And what struck me most about conversations that I had, 无论是在莱弗里特宿舍或其他地方
either in Leverett or other houses, 学生们的使命感 你们的使命感
were students is their sense of mission,your sense of mission, 你们对成功的渴望
your desire to do good, 让世界变得更美好的愿望
to make the world a better place. 据我了解 很多学生毕业后
And as I followed many of the students after they graduate, 无论是与我一起工作
whether the students who work with me here as undergrads 还是我辅导的学生
or students who I tutored, 当我了解他们的前路 并不是些空话
when I followed the path,it wasn't just empty words. 这些学生勇往直前 做了非常棒的事
These students went ahead and did wonderful things, 无论是校外校内的
whether it was right out of college, 无论他们是否刚建立起自身
whether it was once they established themselves, 但可以确定的是 他们潜藏的思想
but there was always this,the back of their mind, 很多时候会涌现出来
very often fore of their minds, "我怎样才能使这个世界变得更美好?"
"How can I make this world a better place?" 充满热情 理想化
Passionate. Idealistic. 美好 极其美好
Good-- in the deep sense,good. 渴望改变世界
This desire to make a difference 是所有学生都有的想法
come into just about all students. 很多人认为这一代人
There are many people who talk about this generation 以自我为中心
as the "ME" generation: all I care about, 这一代人只关心
all this generation cares about is "赚更多的钱"
"well,let me just make more money", "买大一点的房子"
"let me just get a bigger house", "更成功 取得更高荣誉
"let me just be more successful and accrue more eclats, 变得更有威望"
more prestige". 这是一种错误的刻板印象
This is a false stereotype. 是的 荣誉 威望 金钱是重要的
Yes,eclats,prestige,money is important. 这对大多数人来说都很重要
It's important to most people in the world. 甚至是最重要的
A big deal. 但有这些刻板印象的人
But were these people who have these stereotypes— 他们只看到这些是最重要的吗?
were they (?) is that they see just that? 他们并不渴望改变世界
And they don't see the desire to make a difference. 每年哈佛有
1800 students at Harvard each year, 约1800名学生是
about 1800 students are members of PBHA(菲利普斯布鲁克斯楼协会)的成员
PBHA (Phillips Brooks House Association). 不仅如此
That's not all. 还有一些没加入PBHA的学生甘当志愿者
There are other students who outside PBHA and who volunteer. 几乎所有人都是
Just about every single one of you. 看一下统计数据
At least if we look at the statistics, 你们每个人
just about every single one of you, 很快
very soon, 离开哈佛后 都将加入公司
after you leave Harvard,will join an organization, 无论它是否你的主要工作
whether--it could be your primary job or not— 这个组织是个社会企业
an organization that is a social enterprise, 非盈利机构 只为贡献社会而存在的
not for profit,something to better the world. 你会加入这样一个组织
You'll be on boards of such organizations. 你会捐钱给这些组织
You'll donate money to such organizations. 哈佛毕业生一向慷慨 无论是对时间
Harvard grads are generous with their time, 还是金钱和努力
with their money,with their efforts, 无论是商学院 法学院
whether the business school,the law school, 医学院 教育学院
college,Med school,Ed school— 你对社会贡献甚多 是因为你在乎
you give a lot,because you care. 无论是要贡献金钱还是时间 通常两者都要
Again whether it's money,whether it's time-- usually both. 都是成见
False stereotypes. 关于美国人也有些成见
There are also false stereotypes about Americans. 凭经验来说 美国人
Americans,empirically speaking— 或只是说哈佛学生
just empirically speaking about the Harvard students, 根据发展趋势和统计
looking the trends and statistics-- empirically speaking, 美国人是世界上最慷慨的人
Americans are the most generous people in the world. 不仅仅是因为他们更富有
Not just because they have more money to give, 的确 美国人更富有
yes,Americans have more money to give 他们常捐钱
and they give a lot more money, 无论是在扶贫或医疗救助方面
whether it's in food,whether it's in medical aid. 有研究证实 美国人也花最多时间
Americans also spend the most time-- this is a research done (?)— 比其他任何人所花的时间都多
Americans spend the most time out of any other people 平均每周有四个小时做志愿者的工作
in the world volunteering in average four hours a week, 做与自身工作无关的善事
volunteering outside their job which may also have 他们比世界上其他人更具社会目标
a social objective more than any other people in the world. 对于这个美好国家的成见
Once again,false stereotypes about this wonderful country. 这里很美好
And this is wonderful. 能来到这里是件美好的事
This is wonderful to see,wonderful to be here, 无论是在哈佛 还是在美国 真的很荣幸
whether it's Harvard,whether it's America-- a real privilege. 你们许多人
You see,many of you, 不久将会身居要职
not far from now,you will be in influential positions. 你们能够做善事吗
Will you be able to do a lot of good 在一个非营利机构里行善
in a for-profit organization,not for profit organization, 在你母校的董事会
on the board of your previous school, 贡献金钱和时间
with your money,with your time? 然而
However— 这是个原因
and here is the however— 我与许多研究生相处过
I've met many grad students with me 或当导师时的学生
or students when I was a tutor 学生曾跟我谈及他们的困扰
who express their frustration to me. 他们曾对我说 "你知道
They said to me,"You know, 我曾有世界上最良好的意愿
I had all the good intentions in the world. 我有最善良的心 想为世界作贡献
I have all the good intentions in the world. I want to do good. 我奉献出时间和金钱
I've donated my time,my money. 但还是觉得若有所失
But I feel that something is missing. 我觉得我能改变世界的能力
I feel that I've fallen short of my potential 越来越弱了"
to really make a difference." 为什么呢?因为美好的意愿和理想主义
Why? Because good will and idealism, 虽然必要 但却是不够的
while necessary,they are not sufficient. 远远不够
Not enough. 因为很多时候 即使有很好的意愿
Because very often,with very good intentions, 我们的能力还是有限
we may fall short of what we are capable of doing, 或在某些情况下 我们带来的伤害多于帮助
or in some situations,even hurt more than help. 有一些研究表明
And we'll look at some of these studies, 即使到了今天仍有
hopefully still today, 想做好事的人却好心干坏事
with very good intentions actually hurt more they helped. 数十年来的心理学家都有很好的意愿
Psychologists for decades had very good intentions 想帮助高危人群
about helping at risk population. 大量的金钱-数百万美元投资在研究上
A lot of money-- millions,millions of dollars went into that. 但收效甚微
With very little effect. 为什么呢?因为他们没有提出这样的问题
Why? Because they didn't ask the question 这特定情况下 他们应该问这个问题
that they needed to ask,which was,in that particular case, 这个健康本源的问题 为什么有些人
the salutogenic question: why do some individuals succeed 成长环境恶劣 依然能成功?
despite unfavorable circumstances? 即使不提出这个问题 他们也是心怀善意的
There were very good intentions before this question was asked. 充满理想主义
There was a lot of idealism. 这是不够的
It wasn't enough. 很多时候 这些干预会产生
Very often,some of these interventions engendered 消极的受害者心态
the passive victim mentality, 而不是积极作用者心态
as opposed to the active agent mentality 这是Marva Collins提出的观点
that Marva Collins instilled, 是根据Karen Reivich和Martin Seligman的研究所提的
the programs by Karen Reivich and Martin Seligman instill. 这正是心理学起作用的地方
And this is where psychology can help. 因为我们可以展开研究
Because we can take the research and apply it. 并应用到现实中
We can take the research and apply it, 又回到了那个问题 为什么
which goes back to the point why it is so important 搭起学校与社会的桥梁如此重要
to bridge Ivory tower and Main Street. 大多数这类研究并没运用于现实
Most of these research is not applied. 例如
So for example: 有多少教师在课室努力工作
how many teachers working in the classroom 日复一日地研究皮格马利翁效应?
day in and day out know about the Pygmalion effect? 我们下周或再下周会探讨
The Pygmalion effect that we are going to talk about 皮格马利翁效应
next week or the week after, 说明为什么教师的期望就是自我实现的预言
shows how teachers' expectations are self-fulfilling prophecies. 如果我们有很高的期望
And if we have high expectations, 如果我们在学生身上看到伟大的潜能
if we see the seed of greatness in the students, 那么这种潜能就更可能被激发
that seed of greatness is more likely to flourish. 或者 如果我们看不到这潜能
Or if we don't appreciate it, 它就会像刚萌芽的幼苗一样被扼杀
it will depreciate—wither and die. 有多少教师了解这些研究?
How many teachers know about these studies? 他们怎样通过自己的信念
And how they create through their beliefs 创造出自我实现的预言 来影响学生?
the self-fulfilling prophecy when it comes to their students? 有多少教师了解Marva Collins?
How many teachers know about Marva Collins? 每个教师在第一次接受教师培训时
Every teacher in the world on the first day of teacher training 需要了解Marva Collins和皮格马利翁效应
need to learn about Marva Collins and Pygmalion effect. 但事实并非如此
They don't do that. 接下来谈
How about this? 自我尊重
Self-esteem. 你如何提升自尊?
How do you increase self-esteem? 如果我在这里做一项民意调查 保证大多数人
If I have to do a poll here,most people, 会说通过赞美来提升
guaranteed,would say praise people. 赞美别人 赞美孩子
Praise people. Praise children. 这将增强他们的自尊
It will enhance their self-esteem. 说对了一部分
Right. Partially right. 如果把这当作全部的真理
And if it's taken as the whole truth, 则是有害的
and nothing but the truth,it's detrimental. 因为有很多研究显示
Because there is a lot of research that shows 当我们不加区别地赞扬别人
when we praise people indiscriminately, 我们实际上是在长期地
we are actually in the long run 默默地伤害他们 而非帮助他们
potentially hurting them more than helping them, 无论是对他们的幸福感 还是成功
whether it's their wellbeing,as well as their success. 但关于提升自尊有个常见的说法
But the self-esteem movement mostly says 要经常赞美别人和孩子
praise people,praise children all the time. 这点很重要
And again,that's important. 同样重要的是 要懂得如何赞美
But it's also important to know how to praise. 有多少人了解
How many people are familiar with the work 斯坦福大学心理学家Carol Dweck的作品
of the Stanford psychologist,Carol Dweck. 你们在这几周内会了解到
Well,you are going to be familiar with it in a few weeks. 很多好心的理想主义者都不了解这些
Many idealists with good intentions are not. 他们依然认为
And they continue to support or to practice 提升自尊就要不加区别地赞扬
self-esteem as indiscriminate praise, 这最终造成的伤害大于帮助
ultimately hurting more than helping. 有多少心理学家或干涉主义者
How many psychologists,or rather how many interventionists 怀有好的意愿 同时又了解
with good intentions are familiar Albert Bandura关于自我效能感论的研究?
with the work of Albert Bandura on self-efficacy? 要怎样培养?
And how you cultivate that? 还不够
Not enough. 很多时候结果都是弊大于利
And very often,more harm than good is created. 有多少心理学家了解
How many psychologists are familiar 这个心理和生理的新领域?
with this new emerging field of the mind and the body? 有多少人知道下面这个让人欣慰的案例
How many know about the studies that cheerful 瑜伽练习
example that yoga practice diminishes significantly, 比任何试过的干预措施都有效
more than any other interventions that they tried, 犯人在监狱里练瑜伽
the likelihood of second-time offenders 会降低他们的二次犯罪率
when they practice it in jail? 在狱中练过瑜伽的犯人
After their release,they are much less likely to return to jail 获释后较少会再进监狱
if they do some yoga there. 虽奇怪 但却是事实
Strange,but true. 有多少人知道-
How many people know that— 这点与我提出的第一个观点有关-
and this is connected to my first point— 多少人知道 冥想能转换我们的大脑思维
that doing meditation actually literally transforms our brain, 使我们更容易感染到积极情绪
making us more susceptible to positive emotions 在面对痛苦时更坚强
and more resilient in the face of painful emotions. 多少人知道 每周三次
How many people know that three times a week 体育锻炼 每次三十分钟 与最强劲的精神药物
physical exercise,30 minutes each time has the same effect 有同样的效果?
as our most powerful psychiatric drugs? 每周三次 每次30分钟
Three times a week for 30 minutes. 多少心理学家或精神科医生规定病人
How many psychologists or psychiatrists prescribe "每周跑步锻炼三次 早上来见我"?
"run three times a week and see me in the morning"? 还不够
Not enough. 这是实际与理想主义相结合
That's practical idealism coupled together. 在解决冲突时
How are in conflict resolution, 大多数人
the dominant theme of most people 好心想要解决冲突
with good intentions want to resolve conflict 让人们坐下来
is let's get the people together, 好好谈谈
let's get them to talk, 然后就能过上幸福快乐的日子
and they and we will live happily ever after. 我们有1954年的研究
Well we have research from 1954— 那些想从社会心理方面解决冲突的人 Muzafer Sherif
those of you who take social psych—Muzafer sherif, 显示接触假说
showing that the contact hypothesis 也就是让人们彼此交谈的方法
which is just get people to talk to one another, 并不起作用
doesn't work; 很多时候反而让情况更糟
in fact very often it worsens the situation— 很多时候会使冲突进一步恶化
very often the conflict actually gets worse 因为人们只是聚在一起进行商谈
as a result of just getting together and talking, 接触还不够
that the contact is not enough, 你需要的是
that what you need, 引用Muzafer警长的话
in the words of Muzafer sherif 后来由Elliot Aronson详细阐述-
and later elaborated on by Elliot Aronson— 你需要的是一个非常明确的目标
what you need is a superordinate goal— 一个得集体实现的目标
a goal that you have carry out together, 你自己一人做不来的
that you cannot do by yourself— 由一个内部有冲突的小组来实现
carry out together with a conflicting group. 这样随着时间的推移 就能解决冲突
And that's how over time you resolve conflicts, 不仅是让人们聚在一起而已
not just bring people together. 可以想到 这离我们的意愿不远了
Now as you can imagine,this is very close to home for me. 因为在阿拉伯 以色列冲突中
Because there were many people on both sides 双方都有很多人想结束战争
of the Arab/Israeli conflict who wanted to end it, 美国也有很多人想结束它
many people in this country who wanted to end it. 他们做了什么呢?
So what did they do? 我们把他们关到一个房间里吧
Let's just get them together. Let's get them in a room, 无论是在戴维营 奥斯陆或埃及
whether it was in Camp David,whether it was in Oslo or in Egypt. 让他们交谈 解决他们的冲突
Let's just get them together to talk,to resolve their conflict 和他们的问题 然后我们就能过上幸福生活
and their issue and then we will all live happily ever after. 那样会发生什么事呢?
What happened? 局势会恶化
The situation worsened. 现在我们都知道这个道理了
Now we've known that. Muzafer警长在1954年就证明了
Muzafer sherif showed that in 1954 接触假设 只让人们一起交谈
that it is the most likelihood outcome 最可能的结果是引起更多冲突
of just contact hypothesis,just getting them to be together. 有很多人都试图解决冲突
And there were many people trying to resolve the conflict, 不只在中东 世界各地都有这种情况
not just in the Middle East,else in the world, 人们都心存好意
with very good intentions 但往往在不经意间使事情变得更糟
but very often making inadvertently the matters worse. 理想主义和善意是不够的
Idealism and good intentions are not enough. 我们需要将理论结合实践
We need to merge,to mate the research with the practice. 需要你们这样做
And this is where you come in, 认真对待
taking it seriously. 但当我认真对待这事
Now when I take it seriously, 就出现了一个问题
there is a problem here 有时研究所得并不一定是好消息
because sometimes research doesn't deliver good news. 如果仅仅是将
It would be much easier and nicer 以色列人和阿拉伯人聚在一起 冲突就结束
if we could just simply get 那事情就简单得多 容易得多
Israelis and Arabs together and the conflict would end. 这将让事情变得更简单
It would be much nicer and easier,smoother, 非常容易
it would be much easier, 如果我们要培养孩子自尊
if we could just cultivate children self-esteem 仅仅通过多一些赞美
by giving them positive feedback— 告诉他们 他们有多棒
telling them how wonderful they are. 这很容易做到 不是吗?
It's easy to do,right? 这样感觉很好 他们感觉良好 我们也是
It feels good. They feel good. We feel good. 但从长远来看 仅仅这样做并没有帮助
But in the long run,it doesn't help,if it's only that. 只是容易而已
Much easier. 研究往往带来坏消息
And research very often delivers bad news, 只是接触还不够
saying it's not enough-- the contact; 只是赞扬还不够
it's not enough to praise. 然后人们下意识地选择
And then people choose subconsciously, 不自觉地忽视研究所得的坏结果
not consciously to ignore the research and go with her heart. 虽然跟随自己的感觉是重要
And that's important to go with your heart. 但更重要的是同时注重感觉和思维
But it's important to with the heart and the mind. 试想一下 如果一个航空工程师
Imagine if an aeronautics engineer 在早上醒来 说:
woke up in the morning and said, "万有引力
"you know,the Law of Gravity thing 真的带给我很多麻烦
really makes things difficult for me. 很麻烦
It's a pain. 如果没有万有引力 事情就易办多了
Things would be so much easier without the law of gravity. 航空设备也不用这么麻烦"
The design would be simpler." 然后他决定不考虑万有引力设计飞机
And he designs airplane and he ignores the law of gravity. 他会设计出怎样一架飞机呢?
What kind of airplane machine would he or she design? 肯定会失败
A failure. 航空工程师必定要考虑到现实
Aeronautics engineer takes into consideration of reality. 现实就是万有引力的存在
And reality-- there's Law of Gravity. 我们得接受现实
We deal with that. 同样 研究显示的结果就是现实
Similarly,what research shows us is reality: 有哪些现象 哪些可行 哪些不可行
what's out there,what's working and what's not working. 我们需要遵循现实
And we need to conform to it. 考虑现实
Take it into consideration. 能否搭起学校与社会的桥梁
And it's up to you,to take responsibility, 取决于我们自己
to bridge the Ivory tower and Main Street. 在哈佛你们会有32种专业
You are being exposed in 32 classes fraught your Harvard career 各自的课程有不同的主题
to the most rigorous thinking on different topics 你要将这些知识一一吸收并应用
have you take it and apply it, 无论是心理学还是经济学
whether it's psychology,whether it's in economics, 当然如果是工程学或计算机科学
obviously in engineering or computer science, 就会比社会科学和人文科学
where it's done much more readily 更容易理解
than in social sciences and humanities. 重点是 你要为自己负责
It's important to take responsibilities, 因为没人会来帮你
because no one else is going to do it for you. 没人会帮你
No one is coming. 第二前提
Premise 2: 作为一个实际的理想主义者
To be a practical idealist, 它的基础必须是
the foundation of it has to be 相信改变是可能的
the belief that change is possible. 因为如果从个人层面或社会层面来说
Because if the change was not possible on the individual level, 改变都是不可能的 那我在这里干什么?
on the society level,why am I doing what I am doing? 为什么我要花时间在这里?
Why would I spend time? 倒不如做个享乐主义者
Let me just be a hedonist, 尽情享受生活
trying to enjoy my life as much as possible. 你们可能会说
Now for many of you,when you look at this you may say, "好吧 改变是有可能的
"Well,Ok,yes,change is possible. 我相信这一点 但为什么我们需要把它
I believe that and why do we need to have it 作为课程的基本前提
as a basic premise of the course, 而不说'改变是虚幻的'?"
as opposed to change is illusive?" 在心理学上
Well,in the context of a psychology course, 改变是有可能的 这点十分重要
it's anything but trivial that change is possible. 下面我用一项研究来说明
Let me share with you one study to illustrate what I mean. 明尼苏达州的双胞胎研究
The Minnesota Twin study, 一个在心理学领域非常有名的研究
one of the most famous studies in the field of psychology, 是两个杰出的心理学家Lykken和Tellegen做的
was done by Lykken and Tellegen,two prominent psychologists. 这个研究是关于
And what they did was they wanted to understand 基因的重要性
how much do genes matter. 与教育相比 它对性格的影响多大?
How much is it about nature versus nurture? 要如何测试呢?
So how do you test that? 同卵双胞胎
You look at identical twins, 他们拥有相同的基因谱
monozygotic twins who share the same genetic profile. 研究那些被分开抚养长大的同卵双胞胎
And you look at those who are reared apart. 因为如果他们由相同的父母抚养 人们会说
Because if they are reared by the same parents,one could argue, "他们这么相似 是因为有同样的成长环境
"Well they came out very similar because same environment: 他们外表一模一样 上一样的学校
they look the same; they go to the same schools; 有同样的父母 等等"
same parents,and so on." 如果你能找到 出生时就分开了的
But what if you are able to find identical twins 同卵双胞胎
who were separated at birth, 在完全不同的环境里长大
and reared in radically different environments. 现实中能找到这种人
Well you could. 学者发现有很多这样的人
And they found significant number of those, 有时甚至在不同的洲长大
reared in,sometimes different continents. 他们对这些双胞胎进行了研究
And they studied them. 发现了一个明显的现象
And what they found remarkably 这些双胞胎极其相似
was significant similarities among these twins, 有时相似之处非常惊人
sometimes to the points of unbelievable. 像有一组双胞胎
Like one set of twins— 他们娶了名字相同的妻子
I think they found the wives with the same name. 他们在不同的国家长大
They were reared in different countries, 直到37岁才知道对方的存在
didn't know about each other until the age of 37— 娶了相似的妻子 喝同一种啤酒
married similar wives,enjoyed drinking the same beer, 为自己的孩子取相同的名字
called their children by the same names. 有些相似之处令人难以置信
There were some mind-boggling similarities. 有例外
And this is an exception, 但也只有很少例外
but there were quite a few of those exceptions. 让心理学家更感兴趣的是
But more interesting for psychologists 他们的个性非常相似
was that their personality was incredibly similar. 让积极心理学学者 和研究幸福和快乐的人
And very interesting for positive psychologists, 更感兴趣的是
those concerned with wellbeing and happiness: 这些双胞胎的幸福和快乐水平非常相似
their wellbeing and happiness levels were incredibly similar. 即使他们在完全不同的环境中长大
Even if they were raised in radically different environments. Lykken和Tellegen发表了一篇文章
Lykken and Tellegen published a paper, 一篇在80年代非常有影响力的论文
a very influential paper in the 80s, 论文题为"幸福是一种随机现象"
which they called "Happiness is a Stochastic Phenomenon". 论文用以下这句话作结尾
And they end this paper with the following quote: "想变得更快乐
"It may be that trying to be happier 和想变高一样徒劳
is as futile as trying to be taller 只会适得其反"
and is therefore counterproductive." 这句话有两方面让我觉得不快
This quote made me very unhappy on two accounts. 这是句非常有影响力的名言
This wa s a very influential quote. 曾被登上《纽约时报》
This appeared in New York Times. 他们也在电视上说过这话
They talked about on television. 受访时也说过
They were interviewed. 这就有问题了
Very problematic. 那我们在这里做什么?
Coz what are we doing here? 如果这是那次研究的结果
If this is the outcome of the research, 一项严谨的研究
a rigorous research that they did— 而不是马马虎虎的轻松的研究
not an easy research to go and look around the world, 我们能做些什么呢?
what can we do about it? 我认为
Here is my response to that: 简单来说 改变是可能的
Very simply,change is possible. 别盲目相信我的话
And again,don't take my word for it of course. 下面我来详细阐述这话
Let me discuss that further-- elaborate. 有证据显示
There is account of evidence 人们的确是会改变的
where people actually do change 我们有研究显示 经常接受治疗的人
and we have research showing that people going to therapy 会容易改变
very often change as the a result of therapy. 斯坦福大学的心理学家Albert Bandura的研究
Work by Albert Bandura,Stanford psychologist 表明 人们常因遇到一个特别的句子
shows that very often people encountering one special sentence, 读到或听到它
reading it or hearing it from something, 这句话就会改变他们的生活
that sentence can change their lives, 在书上读到 或是有某种经历-
reading it on certain book,having certain experiences— 积极的或痛苦的经历-
positive or painful experiences – 有这样一个概念叫做 创伤后应激障碍(PTSD)
there is this concept of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). 还有一种概念叫做 创伤后成长
There is also a concept of Post-Traumatic Growth. 人们的快乐水平会上下变化
So people change-- up or down in their level of happiness 这是他们的经验之谈
is a result of their experiences. 有可靠证据显示 并非每一个人的
So there is counter evidentce that shows that not everyone, 幸福水平都取决于基因
level of wellbeing is determined by their genes. 事实上 有研究
In fact,there is research 显示基因很重要 影响甚多
that shows yes genes do matter and they matter a lot, 探讨改变的时候我们再谈这问题
as we'll talk about during the week on change. 还有其他因素和基因一样重要
Other things matter as well. 像Lykken和Tellegen那样 人们常错误地
And the error that Lykken and Tellegen and many others make 概括出一个结论 "变化是不可能的"
when they generalize and say "change is not possible" 我称之为"大众错误"
is what I call "the error of the average". 平均而言
Yes,on average, 当研究这40或50组被分开抚养的双胞胎
when you look at this group of 40 or 50 twins reared apart, 大体看来
when you look at the average, 他们是一样的
they are just about the same. 然而 没有单独来看
However,that's not looking at the individuals 因为 虽然他们大多数是非常相似的
because while many of them are the same, 但并不是全部都一样
not all are the same. 这让我想起一个统计学笑话
It reminds me of a joke about the statistician 在一个平均水深为10英寸的游泳池里 谁会被淹死
who drowned in a pool with an average height of 10 inches. 只知道平均值
You see you cannot tell the height or the depth rather 并不知道游泳池的水深
of a pool based on the average. 由于该池平均10英寸深
Because that pool may be average of 10 inches, 或许它某些区域有20英尺深
but maybe it has places that are 20 feet deep, 如果它是一个大水池的话
if it's a large pool. 同样 当你平均地看这些双胞胎
The same when you look at the average of individuals and twins. 大体来说 他们都极其相似
The majority on average,they are extremely similar. 但也有少数的异常值
But there are also outliers. 很多时候 这个异常值
And very often,it's the outliers, 这些差异最有趣
the differences that are the most interesting. 因为他们
Because they stretch— 不只延伸了我们的想象 还让我们能理解
not just our imagination-- they stretch our ability to understand 怎样的时间和地点 有可能产生变化
when and where change is possible. 当我们看到了例外-
The question when we see exceptions, 无论是在Lykken和Tellegen的研究
whether it's the Lykken and Tellegen study, 还是别的出现了例外的研究-
where we do see exceptions— 当发现不是所有的双胞胎都一样
not all twins were the same, 主要的问题
majority were,but not all— 已不再是 改变是否有可能
the question is no longer whether or not change is possible, 而是怎样实现这种改变
but rather how is change possible. 例外证实了那个规律
Once again,the exception proves the rule. 认为"改变是不可能"的
And the research that argues 研究是有害的
that it's not possible to change,is detrimental. 设想一个8岁的女孩
Think about an eight year old girl, 她很忧伤
who's very unhappy, 然后在杂志上读到那个研究
and then reads some magazine about that study, 研究告诉她 基本上你的基因决定了一切
saying that basically you are genetically set point 你与生俱来的一切 将伴随你终生
what you are born with is there for life. 她会更忧伤
She's unhappy. 她只有8岁 但会觉得非常焦虑与痛苦
She feels anxious and miserable as an 8 year old. 她就会想
And she says to herself, "我的人生就是这样 我生来不幸"
"That's it. That's my lot in life. I was born unlucky." 那很可能会成为一个自我实现的预言
And that,very often,becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. 她始终不快乐
And she remains unhappy. 有时这研究让她比以前更不快乐
Sometimes it even makes her less happy than she was before. 因为现在她简直是绝望了
Because now she's also helpless. 改变是可能的
Change is possible. 你知道我经常说
You know I often say that 我是教积极心理学的最佳人选
I am the right the person to teach positive psychology. 为什么?
Why? 因为我不是生来就有"快乐基因"
Because I wasn't born with "happy genes". 从遗传学上讲 我天生就
I was born with,genetically speaking, 比较容易焦虑
relatively high level of anxiety, 容易得抑郁症
inclination toward rumination, 这是经过测试证实的
over-examination— 在后面的课程上我们会谈到
we'll talk about that later in the course. 我之所以研究积极心理学
I went into the positive psychology, 探索心理学领域
into the field of psychology, 正如我第一节课时提到的
as I mentioned in the first lecture, 是因为我不快乐
because I was unhappy here. 随着时间的推移 出现了很多这类研究
And over time,as a result of many of these studies, 由于提出了正确的问题
result of examination result of asking also the right questions, 我变得更快乐
I have become happier. 个人层面上 是有可能变得更快乐
So on a personal level,I know it's possible to become happier. 现在的我比15年前的我更快乐
Now I am happier today than I was fifteen years ago 我希望15年后的我
when I started. I hope to be happier 15 years 比今天的我更快乐
from today than I am today. 这是个终身的过程
It's a life-long process. 但这是有可能的 很多人证实了这是有可能的
But it is possible. And many people show that it's possible. 而那些认为这不可能的人
And those who argue it's not possible 他们用科学来争论
and use science to argue for that, 很多时候 只有阻碍作用而毫无帮助
very often,are hurting more than helping the field. 最近Lykken和Tellegen
Now by the way Lykken and Tellegen were interviewed 受到《时代》杂志的采访 谈"快乐"问题
recently in TIME magazine issue of happiness. 下面是他们说的几句话
Let me quote to you what they said. 2005年 Lykken说
This is in 2005-- Lykken: "我作了一个愚蠢的声明
"I made a dumb statement. 显然 我们能改变快乐水平 变得更高或更低"
It is clear that we can change happiness levels,up or down." 于是他们背弃了原来的声明
So they went back on their statement. 这个声明轰动一时
It was a sensational statement at the time. 改变当然是可能的
It certainly is possible. 我们怎样做更负责任的研究
So how do we do research that's more responsible, 怎样杜绝研究产生坏影响?
that does not lead to detrimental results? 同时 研究必须是真实的
And at the same time,true. 我们并不是要"发明"研究
We don't want to invent research. 研究的目的在于查明事实
Research is about identifying things 现实中真正发生了的事实
that really occur/happen in reality. 首先 我认为在健康研究方面
So one of the first things that I'll argue for in terms of 主要的问题是"让我们注重可行的方法"
healthy research is "let's also focus on what is working". 这是我们过去探讨过的问题
That's first thing that we discussed in the past lecture. 第二 我认为
The second thing that I will argue for 除了要研究可行的方法 还要研究最优秀的个体
in addition to studying what works is also to study the best. 为什么说"最优秀的个体"呢?
What do I mean by best? 我们不但要研究人们因何快乐
Let's not just study what makes people happy. 不要只是研究快乐的人
Let's not just study happy people. 不要只是研究快乐良好的爱情
Let's not just study happy relationships and good relationships. 让我们研究的最快乐的人
Let's study the happiest people. 让我们研究最成功的爱情
Let's study the most successful relationships 从中学习借鉴
and learn from that. 这是个与大众研究
That is a radically different approach 完全不同的研究方法
than studying just the average. 我想说的是 不要研究大众
Because what I am saying here is "let's not study the average", 研究快乐指数最高的5%的人
let's study the top five percent 这样就可以更好地理解这一现象
so that we can understand the phenomenon better. 这就是Abraham Maslow
The person who talks about this is Abraham Maslow. 提出的"成长尖端统计学"
When he talked about "growing-tip" statistics. 以下这话引自他的书
Let me read to you-- this is taken from his book: "设计出这类调研是为了
"What this kind of research design means 改变我们对统计的观念
is a change in our conception of statistics, 尤其是对抽样调查的看法
and especially of sampling theory. 我非常支持
What I am frankly espousing here '成长尖端统计学'
is what I have been calling "growing-tip statistics," 我的头衔来自以下的研究发现
taking my title from the fact 最优秀的遗传基因会在
that it is at the growing tip of a plant 幼苗的成长尖端出现"
that the greatest genetic action takes place." 他的意思是
What he's saying is that "让我们学习圣人
"let's study the sages,the saints, 非凡的人"
the extraordinary people,the arrowhead" 这样能帮助我们了解
so that we can understand and realize 人类的潜能
the potential in all people. 我再引述他另一句更长的话
Let me quote him in greater length. 这话非常重要 是我作这个研究的原因
This is very important,which is why I am doing it: "如果想知道人类最快能跑多快
"If we want to know how fast a human being can run, 那从好的样本中测出平均数是
then it is no use to average out the speed of a "good sample" 没用的
of the population; 而应该收集田径类奥运冠军的信息
it is far better to collect Olympic gold medal winners 看他们能跑多快
and see how well they can do. 如果想知道心灵成长的可能性
If we want to know the possibilities for spiritual growth, 人类价值增长或道德发展的可能性
value growth or moral development in human being, 那我认为 我们可以研究
then I maintain that we can learn most 最道德或圣洁的人
by studying our most moral,ethical,or saintly people. 整体来说 我认为人类历史
On the whole I think it fair to say that human history 是人性逐渐缺失的过程的
is a record of the ways in which human nuture 一个记录
has been sold short. 人性的潜在极限
The highest possibilities of human nature 实际上一直被低估了
have practically always been underrated. 显然 我们平常称之为'正常'的东西
Certainly it seems more and more clear that what we call "normal" 在心理学上 实际是种大众精神病理
in psychology is really a psychopathology of the average, 看上去平平无奇却又非常广泛
so undramatic and so widely spread 我们甚至没有注意到它"
that we don't even notice it ordinarily." 你们明白
You see, 他话里的含义吗?
the implications of what he's saying here? 基本上 他的意思是
Essentially what he's saying is "不要只研究为什么大多数人失败
"let's not just study why do most individuals fail; 让我们也研究为什么有些人
let's also study why do some-- not many— 但为什么有的人尽管条件恶劣也能成功"
but why do some individuals succeed despite the circumstances". 不要只研究整体
Let's not study just the average 整体看来的话 人是不能改变的
that says that people can't really change. 让我们来研究改变了的人
Let's study those people who have changed, 真的改变了自身生活
who have literally transformed their lives 和身边其他人生活的人
and those lives around them. 这是个激进的研究方法
This is a radical approach to research. 对研究我们自身来说
This is a radical approach to the search, 这也是个激进的方法
to studying ourselves as well. 因为很多时候 如果我们只研究平均水平
Because very often,if we only study the average, 那就只会看到平均的结果 只看到几何形状
we only see the average,we only see the geometric shapes 完全忽略了汽车上的孩子
and completely missed the children on the bus. 很多时候
And very often, 最紧迫的问题的答案
the answer to some of our most pressing questions 出人意料
lies in the extraordinary— 就在汽车的孩子身上
lies on the children on the bus. 除了我还有其他人
Now does anyone other than me— 我承认我属于这一类
because I admit that I fall into this category— 但有谁在听到我说的这些话时
but anyone other than me feel a little bit disease 感到不舒服吗?
when I talk about this? 说真的 当我谈到
Seriously,a little bit disease when I talk about "让我们集中精力研究最优秀的个体 圣人 非凡的人"
"let's focus on studying the best— 有人感到不舒服吗?
the saint,the sages,the extraordinary"? 我觉得不大舒服
I feel disease. 你们有些人应该也有这感觉
I'm sure some of you feel that too. 因为这难道不是精英主义吗?
Because after all,isn't that elitist? 我们不是应该研究普罗大众吗?
Shouldn't we study the average 因为我们关心的不只是精英
because we concern not just with elites? 我们关心的是普罗大众
We are concerned with the average. 以下的问题有两个原因
So there are two answers to that— 我为什么还要继续说?我必须承认
why I still maintain,and I must admit 每次教到或想到这个统计
I still feel some disease every time I teach this, 我就觉得有点不舒服
every time I think about this and I think too, 研究最优秀的个体 为什么如此重要
why it is so important to study the best, 为什么成长尖端统计学
why the "growing-tip" statistics is 如此重要 我要建议
such an important approach to research that I encourage 大家使用
my students to carry out. 首先
First of all, 因为它不是排除了普罗大众
because it is not to the exclusion of the average. 就像积极心理学不是说 排除不可行的事
Just like positive psychology does not say "let's exclude 排除病理研究"
what's not working; let's exclude study of pathology". 同样 成长尖端统计学不是提倡
Similarly,"growing-tip" statistics is not saying "我们别研究大众了"
"let's not study the average". 它提倡也去研究最优秀的个体
It says "let's also study the best". 因此在这问题上无须计较研究对象是不是精英
So this is the first thing to alleviate the concern of elitism. 第二点 更为重要的是
The second issue,the second response is even more important. 研究最优秀的个体 能让每个人从中受益
Because everyone benefits,when we study the best. 而所谓的"大众"
And the "average"-- whatever that means, 在这种研究中
the "average" benefits even more "大众"比"精英"受益更多
than the best of this kind of studies. 为什么呢?
Why? 例如 对适应力的研究
For example: the study of resilience. 我们本可以继续研究几百年来的
We could have gone on and studied the average at-risk population 平均受危人群
for decades and centuries. 应该会取得一点点进展
And very little advances would have been made. 事实证明进展甚微
Very little advances were made. 只有当我们开始研究
It was only when we started to study 这些"最优秀"的个体 成功的孩子
those "best" examples,those successful kids, 那些"超级"孩子
those "super" kids as they were initially named. 只有当我们开始研究这些
It was only when we started to study those 才能了解如何帮助到整体
that we actually understood how we can best help that population. 只要将心理韧性研究应用到生活中
And once we applied our studies-- the resilience issue, 每个人受益良多
everyone benefited and continued to benefit from it. 这就是个成长尖端统计学的研究实例
That's an example of "growing-tip" statistics research. 那关于冥想的研究呢?
Or how about the study of meditation? 我想研究冥想
So I want to study how to meditate. 是不是可以在哈佛大二学生里随机抽样
Do I go out to Harvard yard and take a random sample 来研究冥想?
of sophomores to study meditation? 还是去西藏的山顶
Or do I go to a mountain top in Tibet 研究冥想了几十年的人?
and study the people who have been doing it for decades? 当然我该去研究他们
Of course I go and study them! 的确有心理学家这样做过
This is exactly what psychologists did! 他们研究了冥想者的大脑
And they studied their brain— 谈到冥想时再谈这问题
we'll talk about it when we talk about meditation— 通过研究说明他们的大脑
and they illustrated how their brain 如何通过冥想来转换
is transformed through meditation. 像心理学家on Kabat Zinn
Psychologists,like Jon Kabat Zinn, Richard Davidson和Herbert Benson
Richard Davidson and Herbert Benson, 能从这些最优秀的个体中吸取经验
were able to take what they learned from these extraordinary, 并应用到普通人的生活中
best individuals and apply it to other people's lives 如果我每天冥想15或20分钟
so that now I benefit from meditation 就能从中受益
when I do it for 15 minutes or 20 minutes a day. 千千万万的"普罗大众"
And millions of other people,"the average", 因对最优秀的个体的研究
benefit a great deal because of the study of the best, 而受惠
of the "growing-tip". 那爱情呢?
How about relationships? 你能想象
Can you imagine 对整个人类历史上的恋爱关系进行研究
a study of relationships throughout human history 并求平均值吗?
that focuses on the average? 人类史上的普通恋爱关系是指什么?
What's the average relationship in human history? 人类史上的普通恋爱关系
The average relationship in human history 其一是女人是被压制的一方
is one in which the woman is subjugated. 这就是人类史上的普通恋爱关系
That's the average relationship in human history. 如果我们只研究这种恋爱关系呢?
Now what if we just study that? 是否有帮助?
Would that be helpful? 不 John Stuart Mill这样的人
No,it was when people like John Stuart Mill, 研究了他自身的恋爱关系
who studied his relationships 这在当时是极不寻常的
which was at the time extraordinary, 研究过后他发现恋爱关系能改变
realized the potential of what all relationships can be 他这本书是以女性主导地位为题的
that he wrote his book on subjugation of women, 这本书是19世纪最重要的书之一
one of the most important books 是女权运动和平等运动的
of the 19th century that has led to the feminist movement 导火线
and to the equality movement. 如果他只研究普通的恋爱关系呢?
What if he only studies the average? 那样对人际关系有帮助吗?
Would that help relationships? 完全没有
Not at all. 那教学呢?
How about teaching? 要了解如何教学 你想怎样做?
What do you want to do in order to learn about teaching— 研究平均水平的教师还是研究Marva Collins
go and study the average teachers or go and study Marva Collins 然后将Marva Collins的经验应用到所有老师身上?
and then apply what Marva Collins does to all teachers? 当着眼于研究最优秀的人体时 每个人都得益
Everyone benefits when we focus on the tip of stamen— 这就是为什么Maslow说人性
this is why Maslow said human nature 和人的潜能会被削弱
and human potential has been sold short, 如果我们只研究平均水平的话
when we only study the average. 同样涉及到研究我们个人的最大长处
It's also about studying our personal best, 而不仅是研究其他人的最大长处
not just other people's best, 无论是不是我们的最佳经验
whether it's our personal best experiences because 因为研究我们的最开心
if we study our best experiences when we are at our happiest, 最成功
when we are at our most successful, 恋爱关系最佳时的状态
when we thrive the most within the relationship, 那我们也可以从中学习并应用到将来
we can learn from it and apply it to our future as well. 当我们研究平均水平 我们只是描述日常生活
When we study our average,we are describing our lives. 研究我们当中最优秀的个体时
When we are studying the best within ourselves, 我们潜意识里在学习
we are potentially prescribing. Maslow又说:"虽然他们人数少
Maslow again: "Few in number though they be, 但我们可以学到很多有用的东西
we can learn a great deal about values 从对这些最优秀
from the direct study of these highly evolved, 最成熟的 心理最健康的个体的研究当中
most mature,psychologically healthiest individuals, 和对大众的峰值的研究当中可以知道
and from the study of the peak moments of average individuals, 他们达到了短暂的自我实现"
moments,in which they become transiently self-actualized." 如果我们自己吸取这些经验
If we learn from these experiences in ourselves, 那么问题就不再是 是否有可能
the question is no longer whether or not it's possible 越来越多地体验它
to experience it more and more in our lives. 而是"怎样去体验它"
The question is "how is it possible to experience it". 好
Alright. 我们讨论过改变自己
So we talked about changing ourselves, 为什么成长尖端统计学
how it's possible the "growing-tip" statistics 会是积极心理学研究中的
which is the second significant idea 第二个重要理念
within research in positive psychology: 第一个重要理念是"研究可行的事"
first significant idea is "let's study what works" 第二个重要理念是"研究最优秀的个体"
the second significant idea is "let's study what works best". 但这是关乎个体的改变
But this is about individual change. 那社会变革呢?
How about societal change? 最后我想介绍以下这项研究
I want to share with you at the end today a study, 心理学最有名的研究
one of the most famous studies in the field "剑桥-萨默维尔青年学习心理学"
called "the Cambridge-Somerville Youth Study psychology". 这项研究从上世纪30年代开始
This was the study that was run, 由哈佛大学与麻省理工学院共同进行
starting in the 1930s right here between Harvard and MIT, 这些人拥有最高的思维
were the best minds— 心理学思维 哲学思维 心理医生
psychological minds,philosophical minds,psychiatrists— 他们聚在一起讨论
got together and said, "让我们做一个劳斯莱斯计划吧"
"let's create the Rolls-Royce—there wasn't a Rolls-Royce then— "这是能想到的最佳干预方案"
but best intervention program that we can think of." 他们没有金钱方面的限制
There was no limit in terms of how much money was put into it. 他们的一切要求都得到了满足
As much as they needed, 他们从受危人群中选了250名孩子
they got and they chose 250 kids from an at-risk population. 干预不是快速修复
And the intervention is not a quick fix, 不是能一夜改变的  他们实行五年干预
overnight change,"we can" seminar-- five-year intervention. 他们所做的是
And here is what they got. 工作人员每月两次探访受试者
Twice a month,case workers visited them, 帮助他们处理家庭中的冲突
helped them deal with the conflicts in the family, 以及处理日常生活中的问题
helped them deal with issues in their lives. 他们中有一半人得到了学院的辅导
Half of them had academic tutoring,those who needed it— 只要有需要 就能得到学术帮助
got help,academic help. 精神科医生也是
Psychiatric attention— 谁有需要 医生都随时候命
all those who needed it,they were there. 你可尽情利用这些资源
No limits on how much you needed it. 无论你需要什么 这些精英都能满足你
Whatever you needed,you got from the best minds in the field. 他们加入了童子军 基督教青年会
They joined the boy scouts,YMCA, 或其他的青年运动 获益良多
other youth movements,benefited a great deal, 从这些经验可看出来
supposedly from these experiences. 他们得到了一切
They got everything. 这简直是梦寐以求的治疗
This would be a dream treatment— 不仅在20世纪30年代 即使在今天也是
not just in the 1930s,today as well. 心理学家做梦也会梦到这些
This is what psychologists dream about at night. 这项研究就是这样进行的
Just introduce this. 调查结果非常重要
And then measuring outcomes was as serious as the program itself. 还有一个随机分派项目
There was a random assignment— 有另外250个孩子 他们什么也没得到
there were 250 kids who got nothing, 也列为了研究对象
who were also studied, 就像受到"五年干预"的孩子一样
just like the kids who got the five-year intervention were studied— 250名对照组的孩子
250 kids in the control group. 40年的追踪调查
40 years follow-up. 这调查不只是今天 明天或五年内的事
This was not just about today,tomorrow for the five years; 而是研究了他们的大半生
they followed them through much of their lives. 这是一项非常严谨的研究
This was serious study. 这是严谨的干预
This was serious intervention. 其结果令人震惊
And the results were shocking. 即使所有参与这项研究的人-
Even though all those who participated in this study— 无论是心理健康学者
whether it was the mental health workers, 哲学家 心理学家
whether it was the philosophers,psychologists, 教授还是精神科医生-
the professors and the psychiatrists— 都说这是最佳 最高效的研究方案
praise the program as the best,as highly effective, 但当他们看到原始的样本数据
when they looked at the raw objective data, 调研结果让他们震惊
the results were shocking. 少年犯罪
Juvenile offenses: 对照组与干预组没有区别
control group versus intervention group-- no difference. 超过三分之一有案底
Over a third had official records 超过20%犯轻罪 无案底
and 20 more percent had unofficial records for misdemeanors. 在少年犯罪方面两组并无差异
No difference in juvenile offenses. 成人后的犯罪率
Adult offenses later on in their lives. 同样没有区别
Again,no difference. 20%以上的犯罪率
Over 20 percent offenses— 无论是对财产或对人所犯的罪
whether against property or against person— 在这两组之间
in both groups: the 250 here versus 250 here, 样本规模相同的两组间
which is significant sample size. 并无差异
No difference whatsoever. 其他测量数据显示
other measures: 身体健康和心理健康 两组没有区别
physical health and mental health—no difference whatsoever. 酗酒方面两组有显著差异
But finally,there was a significant difference on alcoholism, 酗酒人数有差异
the number of people who became 工作地位有差异
alcoholic later on in life as well as job status— 成为白领的人数
how many people were able to 两组有差异
getting to do "the white collar" jobs. 所以至少还是有成果的
So at least there are results there. 至少发现了几点显著的结果
At least they found statistically significant results 当发现这几个差异时
when they came to that. 那很棒吧
That's good,right? 其实不尽然
Not at all. 这些研究结果被扭曲了
Because these results were "in the wrong direction", 这项研究实际表明 干预组酒鬼数量
meaning there were alcoholics in the intervention group 比对照组更多
than in the control group; 对照组更多人
there were more people in the control group 在工作上表现出色
making it at work "raising their status at work" 相较干预组而言
than in the intervention group. 换而言之 干预弊大于利
In other words,intervention did more harm than good. 理想主义 良好意愿 钱财 都是不切实际的
Idealism,good intention,a lot of money wasn't practical. 很多关注这项研究的人
Now many people who look at this study— 这是一个开创性的研究 心理学史上
this is a seminal study—very few studies 很少如此重要的研究
in the history of psychology that were that serious. 他们认为"社会变革应该是不可能的"
They say,"well,societal change is probably not possible". 再给我一分钟 快讲完了
Give me one minute and I'll finish. 他们认为 社会变革是不可能的
Societal change is not possible,they say. 是吗?
Is it? 首先 例外是存在的 我们中也有例外
First of all,there are exceptions and we have exceptions 这证实了规则-有一个真正可行的方案
that prove the rule--there are programs that actually work, 无论是Karen Reivich的研究
whether it's the work again of Karen Reivich 还是宾夕法尼亚大学Martin Seligman的"适应力计划"
and Martin Seligman from U Penn,"resilience program", Marva Collins肯定是个例外
whether it's Marva Collins who's certainly an exception, 她显示了干预是如何起作用的
who shows how interventions work. 想想以下这个有趣的问题
And it's interesting to think about Marva所做的事与那项研究的区别
the difference of what Marva Collins does, 她没有给学生权利意识
or she doesn't give the students in sense of entitlement, 她赞扬他们 给他们严厉的爱
or she praises them but she gives them hard love 而不是免费的午餐
as opposed to free lunch, 她没有按需要来将他们分类
or she doesn't label them as needy 那项研究大概是根据需要来划分孩子的
and the study perhaps labeled these kids as needy. 有许多差异
There are many differences. 但研究这个例外的关键是
But the keys to study this exception 大家坐在一切
and for practical idea is to come together 说"什么是可行的?我们研究最好的吧
and to say "what is working? Let's study the best; 研究可行的事 将它应用到生活中"
let's study what works and then apply it." 我们将这思想传播出去
Let's spread the word. 我们根据Maslow20世纪50年代所说的来行事
Let's do what Maslow talked about back in 1950s. 他表明"曼哈顿计划"反驳了
What he suggested is "Manhattan-Project-type attacks 当时最大的问题
upon what I consider to be the truly Big Problems of our time, 这不仅是对心理学 甚至对所有人类都
not only for psychology but for all human beings 带来了历史紧迫感"
with any sense of historical urgency". 曼哈顿计划中 他们创造了原子弹
The Manhattan Project,when they created the atomic bomb 无论你是否同意
and whether or not you agree with 这计划
the Manhattan Project normatively. 很快就说完
One second. I'm almost done. 积极地说 他们汇集了最优秀的人才
Positively,what they did there was bring together the best minds 奥本海默 基拉特 费米费曼 波尔
Oppenheimer,Zillart,Fermi Feinman,Bore— 联合他们 共同拯救自由世界
bring them together with a mission of saving the free world. 无论你是否同意这计划
Again whether you agree or not with the project 积极来说 它都是最伟大的计划
is beside the point,it was the greatest,positively speaking, 聚集起了最优秀的人才
scientific project in history where the minds got together. 这就是Maslow建议心理学家该做的事
This is what Maslow is suggesting that psychologists do. 同时也是积极心理学的目标
This is also the aim of positive psychology,no less than this. 让全世界的人们思考这些问题
You get people around the world to think about these problems, 实际的理想主义者
these issues-- practical idealists 研究可行的方法
who will study what works, 研究最好的个体 他们会带来改变
who will study the best and through that,make a difference. 下周再见
I'll see you next week. 



 Chapter 3: 积极的环境能改变人






 Chapter 4: 环境的力量


我想介绍一位来自"为美国而教"的代表
I'd like to introduce a representative from "Teach for America" 这个组织一直致力于做好事
which is an organization that has done and is doing a lot of good, 在世界上宣扬善 我想…
promoting goodness in the world and I'd like to-- 这门课 过去两年一直向他们提供支持
in 1504, we've been supporting them for the last 2 years 我们希望继续下去
and we'd like to continue to do that. 有请
So please. 大家好 能听到吗？
Hello. Can you hear me? 非常感谢
Thank you so much for this. 我只占用90秒
I will take 90 seconds. 我叫Josh Bieber
My name is Josh Bieber. 好的 我感觉很好
Alright. I feel positive. 我是为美国而教的成员 现在为组织工作
I was a Teacher for America Corp member and I now work for TFA. 负责新址开展
I do new site development. 大四时
So when I was a senior, 我勉强认为这是个机会
I had marginally considered this is an option. 招聘到期日 固执的组织招募人员
I had a napping for a very pushy phone call 打来电话 听电话时我差点睡着
from a very pushy TFA recruiter on the deadline day-- 我本不会应聘
I would not apply. 但我还是磨蹭了两小时完成短文
But I hesitantly took two hours to fill that essays 多亏那个打来电话的人
and now owe her for or owe that phone call for 这是我人生最美好 最快乐的两年
the best two years of my life and truly the happiest. 请再给我一分钟
So if I have 60 seconds, 希望大家对组织有两个了解
there are just two things that I want people to know about TFA. 我想你们知道组织的目的
I think you know what we are. 一是这个国家对学校里的
One, is that this country does not serve all kids 孩子们的教育是不平等的
in our schools fairly. 低收入孩子在离开小学前
So low-income kids before they even leave elementary school 已落后多年
are years behind where they should be. 其中不到一半能高中毕业
And nearly not even a half of them graduate high school, 这非常不公正
which is like, a terrible injustice, 完全的不公正
a complete injustice. 二 你们能带来改变
Two, you can actually make a difference. 我开始也怀疑组织
I was as skeptical as they come about TFA 和自己的能力
and my ability and all the rest. 但我知道这是真的
But I know this to be true. 如果你走进一个五年级教室
If you walk into a class with 5th graders, 学生们从第一天开始就落后很多
who on day one are years behind where they should be 恨学校 因此也恨你
and hate school and are kind of like to hate you because of it. 九个月后
And nine months later, 他们成绩优异
they leave honor above great level, 恳求更多作业
begging for some more work 希望与你共度周未
and wanting to hang out with you on the weekend. 让你觉得一切都有可能
You kinda think that anything is possible. 我在此足以说明
And that's clearly I am here now. "为美国而教"对我来说是一个
So for me, Teach for America is an opportunity 真正让我实现想法和希望的地方
to actually align my actions with my thoughts and my hopes 参与实现我们都想见到的改变
and be part of the change we all talk about wanting to see. 我愿意鼓励所有同学
So I would encourage you all, 不管你们计划明年做什么
regardless of what you think you may do next year, 请大家超越那些想法 考虑这个机会
or you may go beyond that to like, really consider this. 它是我可能做过的最好的事
It was the best thing that I could've done. 最后期限是明天
The final deadline is tomorrow. 很容易做 不需要推荐
It's easy to do. You don't need rex. 申请就行
Just apply. 给自己机会
And give yourself the chance 像我一样爱上这份工作
to fall in love with it the way that I did. 最后我想说
And I will just end by saying, 现在坐在教室里的同学们
if you are in this room right now, 可能获得同龄人中最好的教育
you've probably had the best education anyone your age, 世界上最好的教育
anywhere could possibly have. 我们的学生和学校需要你们
Our students and our schools need you. 请加入我们
So please join us. 感谢给我的时间
Thank you very much for the time. 祝大家上堂精彩的课
And have a good class. 大家好 只说几句
Hi everyone. Quickly. 如果这里有公开课学生或本科生
If there are any extension students or undergraduate students 不能在这周来上课的
who were not able to make section this week, 今晚七点半有一堂开放课
we have an open section tonight at 730. 是为公开课学员制作的录像
That'll be videotaped for the extension school. 有时间和兴趣上课的
So if you are available and interested in attending that, 请在课后来找我
please come and see me after class. 谢谢
Thanks. 现在我想介绍两位挚友
I'd like to introduce now two very dear friends 积极心理学的支持者
and supporters of positive psychology 可能比任何人
who are doing arguably more than anyone else 更致力推广积极心理学
to disseminate the ideas of positive psychology 以严谨和有趣的方式
in a rigorous and fun way. 我请他们简单介绍一下
I've asked them to give a brief presentation 宾州大学应用积极心理学硕士课程
about the Masters of Applied Positive Psychology at U Penn, 唯一的硕士学位
the only master degree, 世界上第一个硕士学位
well the first master degree in the world-- 目前还有其他几个
there are a couple of others now. 他们会简单介绍一下
And they'll talk a little bit about-- 利用15分钟时间 介绍一下硕士课程
for 15 minutes-- about the masters, 然后再开始今天的课程
before we jump into our material today, 希望让人兴奋
which hopefully will be exciting. 有请James和Debbie
So-- James and Debbie, please. 非常感谢
Thank you very much, Tal. 很高兴能来到这里
It's great to be here with you guys. 和你们共度几分钟 真是乐事
What a delight to be able to spend a few minutes with you 在这样特别的课堂上
and such a very special class, 在这里你们将积极心理学的科学
where you are combining the science of positive psychology 和应用合二为一
with its practice. 当然你们很快就知道
And of course, as you very quickly figure out, Tal是位杰出的教授
Tal is such a master teacher, 能把复杂的概念
somebody who is able to take complex ideas 变得简单易懂 又不过份简单
and make them simple without making them simplistic 而且发人深省
and also making it inspiring 让讲座富于感召力
and making the presentation motivating 使我们想出去应用学到的理念
so that we want to go out and apply the ideas that we are studying. 我想知道有多少人
I'm curious-- how many of you here 对将积极心理学应用于
are interested in applying the science of positive psychology 生活中感兴趣
in your own personal life as part of why you are her. 请举手?
Can I see your hands? 好 很好
Ok. Great. 有多少人选择这门课
How many of you are here because you are also 是因为有兴趣在未来事业中
potentially interested in applying the science of positive psychology 应用积极心理学
in your future career decisions, 在工作中? 好的
in your job eventually? Ok. 很好 好极了
Great. Excellent. 希望你们起码能那么做
I hope you do just that. 那些有兴趣
For those of you who are interested in taking positive psychology, 深入学习积极心理学的学生
studies of positive psychology deeper 在研究生程度课程获取知识
at graduate level program for your own knowledge, 但同样能够
but also to be able to take 将所学带入事业
what you are learning into your profession, 我们很高兴能够向你们介绍
we're delighted to be able to tell you 一下宾州大学的
a little bit about the master of applied positive psychology program 积极心理学硕士课程
at the University of Pennsylvania, 谈谈将积极心理学
and to talk a little bit about taking positive psychology 从课堂带向世界
from the classroom to the world. 你们知道积极心理学刚刚诞生十年
Now as you know, positive psychology is just about 10 years old. 始于1998年 Martin Seligman
It was started in 1998, when Martin Seligman 美国心理学协会当时的主席
was the president of the American Psychological Association. 积极心理学是他主持开创的
And positive psychology was one of his presidential initiatives. 四年前
About 4 years ago, Martin Seligman创办积极心理学中心
Martin Seligman started the positive psychology center 在宾州大学
at the University of Pennsylvania. 积极心理学中心的使命
And the mission of the positive psychology center 是推广研究 培训
is to promote research, training, 教育和传播积极心理学
education and dissemination of positive psychology. 2005年一月
So in January, 2005, 我加入积极心理学中心
I joined the positive psychology center 任教育主任和高级学者
as the director of education and senior scholar. 2005年二月
The next month, in February of 2005, Debbie Swick加入中心任教育助理主任
Debbie Swick came on board as the associate director of education. 我们的任务是编制硕士课程
Our task was to create a master program 并在秋季推出
and have an up and running by the fall. 我一月加入 Debbie二月加入
So again, I got there in January, Debbie came in February. 三月完成论出
We got our brochure out, 印刷并出版
printed and published in March. 申请的最后期限是四月
Our application deadline was April. 我猜有点乐天派
Kind of an optimistic, I suppose? 我们不知道是否有人报读
And we didn't know if anybody would show up. 不知是否有人感兴趣
We didn't know if anybody would be interested. 但我们不需要担心
We needn't have worried. 我们收到超过一百份申请表
We got over 100 applications 秋天时收了36名学生
and we accepted 36 students into our program for that fall. 后来的收生情况越来越好
And things have just been really going well and hopping ever since. 这是我们当前的学生
This is our current class. 2007年秋天 开课第一天
On their first day of class in the fall of 2007, 今年一共收录41名学生
we have 41 students in our class this year. 我想多介绍一点学生情况
So I'd just like to tell you a little bit more about the students. 我们有三名毕业生或在读生
Actually three of our graduates or current students 是这门课的助教
are teaching fellows in this class. 让人兴奋
So that's exciting. Debbie Coen和Elizabeth Johnston
Debbie Coen, Elizabeth Johnston-- where are you? 请站起来
You guys, please stand up. 还有Elizabeth Peterson 很好
And Elizabeth Peterson. Great. 看左上角
If you look at the up left corner, 两年前 Gabriel修读这门课
Gabriel was a student here in this class two years ago, 在我们来推广硕士课程时
when we came and presented on the program 现在他正在我校读硕
and he is currently a student in the MAPP program. 这门课和我们的硕士课程
So there is a lot of synergy going back and forth 有很多合作
between this class and our master program. 我们的学生年纪从22岁到62岁
Our student age range from 22 to 62. 来自美国各地
They come from all across United States, 佛蒙特 弗罗里达 加州
from Vermont to Florida, to California. 来自世界各地
They come from around the world: 我们的学生来自英国 挪威
we have students from UK, from Norway, 瑞士 印度
Switzerland, India, 马来西亚 日本 香港
Malaysia, Japan, Hong Kong, 南韩和新西兰
South Korea and New Zealand. 25%到30%的学生是年轻人
About 25% to 30% of our students are younger students 刚刚大学毕业
who are just out of college 希望在进行职业训练之前
and are looking to immerse themselves in positive psychology 先深入学习积极心理学
before going on into their professional training. 其余学生是专业人士
The rest of our students are professionals 来自各行各业
who come from a wide variety of professions. 在第一班里
In our first class, 学生中有来自苏格兰的
we had the former chief social worker inspector 全国前社工总监
for the entire country of Scotland within the class. 那很有趣
That was very interesting. 肾移植医生
We had kidney transplant surgeon, 摩根大通的前副主席
former Vice President of JP Morgan; 律师 非牟利发展计划的主任
we had attorneys, Directors of Development for Non-Profits; 学校的常务董事
executive director of school, Carlbrook Academy今年选择了我们的课
Carlbrook Academy is in our class this year; 人力资源主管
human resources directors, 咨询师 执行教练
consultants, executive coaches, 甚至音乐家和喜剧演员
even professional musician and professional comedian. 班里的学生可谓五花八门
So it is quite a cross cut of students in the class. 我想用两分钟
Just in a couple of minutes, 简单介绍一下教学设计
I want to give you a little bit more sense of what educational design 再简介一下课程内容
is and just a brief over view of the course work. 本课程是一年制全日制学习
So this MAPP program is a one calendar year, full-time study. 九月开始 八月毕业
Students begin in September and end in August. 我们的教育设计是混合模式
The educational design is hybrid model-- 每个月 学生
so once a month, students are on class, 有一次现场教学
on site, for intensive on site classes. 其余时间
And then in the intervening periods, 学生通过远程学习模式完成
they are on distant learning modules that the students complete. 这是一个职业硕士学位
This is a professional master degree. 教学重点放在
And it focuses on 积极心理学理论
the theory and the application of positive psychology 及在各行各业的应用
in various professional domains. 目前来说
So at this point, 积极心理学
there is not a separate licensing or credentialing 还没有独立的执照或证书
in positive psychology itself. 学生来自教育
Students come from education, 商业 法律 医疗等各个领域
business, law, medicine, etc, 都有自己的文凭
bringing in their own credentials with them. 让学生每月来校一次
So this design of having students on campus 进行现场教学的设计
once a month for intensive classes 允许学生继续全职工作
allows students to continue working full time. 我刚说过
Now just as I said, 课程是全日制的 你可能奇怪
the program is full time and you may be wondering, "怎么可能一边工作一边全日上课"
"How can students work full time and study full time." 请记住这是一个职业学位
Keep in mind this is a professional degree 高级管理人员教育模式
and executive education model 就是为那些
that is intended to be designed for people 全职工作的人员设计的
who are themselves working full time 同时上全制日课程
and still taking classes full time. 多数学生继续
So most of our students continue their work 他们从事的工作
they've been doing, 继续全职工作同时又能上课
continuing working full time when they come to our class. 这种模式的另一个优势
Another advantage of this model 是不需要学生居住在宾州附近
is students aren't required to live in Philadelphia. 学生从全国各地赶来
Students can commute in from across United States. 即让我们惊讶且欣喜的是
And what has been a surprise and pleasure to us: 远在欧洲和亚洲的学生
students have decided to commute 也决定赶来
in from as far away as Europe and Asia. 我不知道现在你们如何来上课
I don't know today what you commute was like to come to class. 但我们的一些学生
But some of our students come 每月从南韩和新西兰赶来
as far away as South Korea and New Zealand every month 参加积极心理学课程
to be part of the positive psychology classes. 可以想象
So you can imagine that 为课堂带去的兴奋和活力
adds real excitement and energy to the class 也给教授施加了压力 我们要确保
and puts a little bit pressure on the professors to make sure that 能传授值得绕半个地球赶来学习的知识
we have something worth coming half way around the world for. 学生的多样性
This enhances the educational experience obviously 提升了教学体验
by increasing student diversity: 居住在海外的学生
we have students who are living abroad 赶来上课
and coming in for the classes. 我们还聘请多位教授
And also we are able to tap into the expertise of professors, 不局限于宾州大学
not just at the University of Pennsylvania, 还有其他大学
but also at other schools as well 我们请来最杰出的研究员
so that we can bring in the very top leading researchers 和积极心理学的从业者
and practitioners of positive psychology. 简单概述2008年秋的现场教学
A brief overview of the schedule of on-site classes on the fall 2008: 春季有五个
you can see that there are five different intensive 现场教学周未
on-site weekends in the spring 其余时间是远程教学
as well with distant learning and intervening times. 简介一下课程
So just very briefly, the courses-- 每位学生秋季上四门课
each student takes four courses in the fall, 春季上四门课 然后是总结性课程
four courses in the spring and then the capstone course. 秋季时
In the fall, 课程集中介绍积极心理学的基础理论
the courses focus on the foundational theory of positive psychology: Martin Seligman教
Martin Seligman teaches the Introduction 积极心理学课程概述
to Positive Psychology course; Angela Duckworth教研究手段与评估
Angela Duckworth teaches a course on Research Methods and Evaluation 让学生
it is very important for our students 真正把握积极心理学科学很重要
to have a real good grasp of the science of positive psychology, 理解结论背后的研究手段
understanding other research methods behind the results; 我教积极心理学原理
I teach a course in the foundation of positive interventions; 第四门课是"通向美好人生的方法"
and then our fourth course is Approaches to the Good Life, 请来多位杰出的研究人员
where we have different leading researchers come in 讨论他们的研究
and talk about their research. 春季 我们的课程
In the spring, our courses focus, 不再以理论为焦点
not so much on the theory, 而是转向积极心理学的应用
but now move to the application of positive psychology 因为这是应用积极心理学硕士学位
since it's a master of applied positive psychology. 不知道你们是否学习了"特长与美德"
I don't know if you study yet "the character strengths and virtues", Chris Peterson的"价值和行为分类"
the values and the action classification by Chris Peterson. 如果还没有学习
If you haven't done that yet, 我肯定不久会学到
I'm sure you shortly will. 他也会教授有关自己研究的课程
He himself comes in and teaches a course on the work he has done. 我教积极干预应用
I teach a course on applied positive interventions 课程也包括一个服务教育部分
and we have a service learning component as a part of that class. Karen Reivich和Judith Saltzberg Levick
Karen Reivich and Judith Saltzberg Levick 教积极心理学和个体
teach a course on positive psychology and individual-- 即在与他人的人际关系上
so this is how to use positive psychology relationally 如何应用积极心理学
with other people, 不论是在工作中 还是与朋友家人在一起时
whether it's in working environment or with friends or family. 最后一门课
And then finally, 不知你们是否熟习"肯定式探询"
I don't know if you are familiar with appreciative inquiry-- 如果不知道
again, I expect, if you not, 我想Tal会在本学期向大家介绍
Tal will be introducing it to you during the course this semester David Cooperrider是这个领域的先驱
David Cooperrider is the leader of this field of inquiry, 将积极心理学方法
which basically takes positive psychology approaches 带入组织 并致力寻求改变
into organizations and seeks to foster change at the level, 不只是个人
not just individuals, 而是整体水平的改变
but at the level of the whole. 最后要修的一门课是总结性课程
The final course the students take then is the Capstone project, 开课时间是夏季
which happens over the summer. 这是一个独立课程
This is an independent project 允许学生结合
where students are able to integrate 课堂所学
what they've learned in their classes 进一步
and take a step forward in the directions 应用于他们各自的职业
that they want to go in their own professional application of this. 我们让学生进行研究
So we had students do research, 量化研究和质化研究
quantitative research or qualitative research; 我们让学生
we had students do literature reviews 就感兴趣的领域写文献观后感
in a particular area of interest; 他们计划写的书的进展计划
work proposals for book they want to write; 或实验计划等等
or workshop proposals and those kinds of things. 以上只是课程简介
So that's a brief overview of the courses. Debbie会占用几分钟时间
Debbie is going to just take a couple of minutes 给大家看一些照片
to show you some pictures-- 过去几分钟展示了太多文字
this has been a lot of texts in the last few minutes. Debbie会展示一些照片 更详细地介绍一下学生
Debbie will show you some pictures and tell you more about the class. 交给Debbie
Debbie. 谢谢
Thanks. 大家听过了James的课程简介
Thank you. You heard about the course from James. 我会介绍一下课程安排
I'm going to tell you a little bit about how they are set up 和内容
and what they are. 这是一张开学周的照片
And this is a picture from emersion week-- 开学周时 同学初次见面
emersion week is when the very first time students meet together 他们来宾州五天
that for 5 days to Penn. 我们的课程从早上八点到下午五点
And we have class from 8 to 5. 我知道听上去很疯狂
And I know it sounds kind of crazy 但我们相处得很快乐 你们看得出
but we have a lot of fun as you can tell. 学生们兴趣浓厚
And they stay engaged, 因为我们收录来自全球
because we bring faculties 各行各业的学生 在这个世界级学院
from all over the place and this world-class faculty-- 他们有机会进行真正的交流
they really have a chance to interact with these. 班上有41个学生
The class is 41 students-- 一起上课
they take all the courses together 更像是论坛而非讲座
and it's more a seminar than a lecture. 同学们有深入交流
So they really get to interact quite a bit. 休息时 午餐时
And during break, during lunchtime, 他们结识
etc, they get to see these people 来自世界各地的同学
that just have come in from various places. 宾州应用心理学硕士课程的
Another more of interaction 另一种交流形式是团体交流
that you get in the MAPP program is with cohorts. 每个人
Everyone is put in a cohort-- 和另外三五个人组织一个团队
about 3 to 5 people. 你和他们合作不同的课题
And you'll do different projects with these people; 远程学习可以做很多事
you'll do a lot of things in distant learning; 可以经常和这些人交流
you'll communicate a lot with these people. 这是你获得的另一种深度
And this is just another depth that you get 当你与来自
when you get to work with people 世界各地的人合作时
from all different places and all different demographics. 我们很想利用总结性课程
And one of the things we really try to use the Capstone project for 作为踏脚石 让学生
is a stepping stone into what you are going to do 更顺利地展开应用
with your application. 很多人借助它
And many people have taken this 创建工作室
and they have created workshop for what they are doing. 有一位学生把积极心理学初级课本
One person actually took the primer in positive psychology 翻译成日语
and she translated it into Japanese. 她的译作得以出版
And she's getting it published. 那个计划让她获益良多
And that is quite a project for her. 还有学生
And other people have published 在学术刊物上发表了总结性课程论文
in scholarly journals their Capstone work. 被邀请进行讲座 这是一位学生
And people give presentations and this is a photo of someone 在积极心理学峰会上作讲座的照片
giving a presentation in a positive psychology summit. 我们录取学生进修硕士课程
So there are a lot of different things 他们可以做各种各样的事
that students do as we bring them to the program, 我们给他们打下坚实基础
as we give them a solid foundation 帮助他们加以应用
and then we help them start applying this move towards that. 申请者打来电话时
But one of the biggest questions we get 询问得最多的问题是
when we have applicants call in is, "这个学位有什么用?"
"what can I do with a MAPP degree?" 我会告诉大家 这张快照上
I am going to tell you just as a quick snapshot: Sasha Lewis Heinz 照片中的第一个人
Sasha Lewis Heinz, just the first person there-- 目前她正攻读博士课程
she is now in the PHD program 在哥伦比亚大学进修发展心理学
in Development Psychology at Columbia University. 读博前 她攻读了宾州应用心理学硕士课程
So she came to the MAPP program before getting her PHD. 打下坚实的基础
So she has that foundation 那是她想应用和致力研究的
and that's what she wants to use and focus on 当她继续攻读博士时
as she goes through and gets her PHD. 上面第二名学生是Saniel Mimen
The second person up there is Saniel Mimen 她在投资公司工作并利用业余时间
who has worked with hedge funds but she found in her spare time-- 她挤出时间
she found some time 创建了积极心理学每日新闻网站
to create a positive psychology news daily website, 内容囊括宾州硕士同学会撰写的
which is articles about research 有关积极心理学的研究和应用文章
and application of positive psychology written by MAPP alumni 他们真的在进行研究和应用
who are out there actually doing that. 另外 她还和
And another thing she's been able to do 其他多名硕士同学合力
along with a lot of other MAPP alumni 参与到培训中来 参与我们
is being involved in trainings and being involved in projects 积极心理学中心的项目
that have come through the positive psychology center. 中心有各种项目 去英国培训他人
As we get different projects to train people in the UK, 向学校推广积极心理学
to positive psychology in their schools, 我们派去参与项目的是硕士生
the people that we draw on are MAPP alumni, 因为他们有所需的教育背景和基础
because they have the education and foundation 去完成这些项目
that is needed to be able to put through these projects. 我们希望继续
So we hope to continue 安排同学参与
to put together alumni with various opportunities 各种机会
that come along to us. Caroline Miller 照片中的第三个人
Caroline Miller, the third person there-- 她是一位作家
she is an author 正准备出版她的第二本书
and she is getting ready to publish her second book 她也是一个演说家和教练
and she's also a speaker and a coach. 攻读硕士学位后
And she's had the opportunities 她获得很多授课的机会
since MAPP to actually teach a lot of the courses 她的方向是目标设立
and she's very focused on goal setting 和运动心理学
and she's very focused on sports psychology. 硕士课程大大扩展了她的能力
So this has really expanded what she's been able to do. 并非所有学生都是哈佛毕业生
And not all of our students are Harvard graduates, 但这三位都是哈佛毕业生
but these three happened to be them. Harvard graduates. 这张快照颇有趣味
So it's very interesting to see that little snapshot. 我们希望有更多哈佛毕业生参加我们的课程
And we hope we have many more Harvard graduates coming to our program. James 你来总结吧?
So James, you wanna finish up here? 非常感谢 Debbie
Thank you very much, Debbie. 我们的推广名为"从教室走向世界"
Our presentation is entitled "From the Classroom to the World". 宾州应用心理学硕士课程显然是一个途径
And certainly the MAPP program is one way 将积极心理学带向世界
of taking positive psychology from the classroom to the world. 再简单介绍另一个机会
Just want to mention very briefly another opportunity: 我们刚刚创办国际积极心理学协会
We've just started the international positive psychology association. 它将成为一个重要国际组织
And this is going to be a major international organization 帮助积极心理学的研究人员和应用者
to help facilitate communication and collaboration among researchers 更便利的交流与合作
and practitioners of positive psychology. 这是照片
Here is a picture 记录了第一次董事会议
that was taken at the first Board of Directors' meeting 在十月举行
that happened in October-- 照片上没有的是Tal
not pictured here is Tal, 他是董事会成员之一
who is a member of the board of the directors 也是美国乃至全世界
as are a number of our other leading positive psychologists 众多杰出积极心理学家之一
from United States and around the world. 协会设立特别的学生会员
There's a special student membership 我鼓励你们了解一下
so I encourage you to check out 国际积极心理学协会
the international positive psychology association 网址是www.ippanetwork.org
at www.ippanetwork.org 加入并把握积极心理学领域
and join to stay abreast of the latest development 最新发展动态
in the field of positive psychology. 很希望有时间回答你们的问题
I wish we had time for your questions 但Tal准备了很多精彩内容
but I know Tal has a lot of great stuff for you today. 请继续上课
So we will move along. 希望大家知道
Just want to let you know that 今天下午有一个咨询会
there will be an information session this afternoon, 在哈佛大厅103教室 从三点到四点半
from 3 to 4:30 in Harvard Hall, room 103. 我们非常期待
So we'd love to see any of those of you 有兴趣的同学过来和我们谈谈
who are interested to stop by and talk with us 到时我们可以更详尽地
and we'll be able to talking more detail 解答你们的问题
about more specific questions you might have at that point. 下课后 我们也会留下几分钟
We'll also be here for a few minutes after class. 我们带来宣传册
We have some brochures with us. 欢迎有兴趣的同学来取
We'd love you to take a brochure if you are interested. 在我们的网站上
There's always more information 可以了解到更多信息 pennpositivepsych.org
hat can be found on our website at pennpositivepsych.org 也可向列出的地址发邮件
or you can email us the address listed. 希望我们能在宾州应用心理学硕士课程上见面
So we hope to see a lot of you at the MAPP program sooner or later. 同时
In the meantime, 祝你们本学期取得成功
wish you have a very successful semester 深入学习积极心理学的科学
as you dig into the science of positive psychology 并将之应用于生活
and put it into practice in your own lives, 思考如何把积极心理学
and think about how to take positive psychology 从教室带向世界
from the classroom to the world. 好的
OK. 成为宾州应用心理学硕士班的一员是种特权
It's such a privilege to be a part of MAPP 因为在那里共度一年的
because what you have there in a year 是来自各个领域的杰出人物
is all the top people from the field. 我们将会谈到的很多人
So many of the people we'll talk about, 比如Bob Fredrickson 过一会我们会谈到他
whether it's Bob Fredrickson who we'll talk about in a few minutes, 或者以后会谈到的David Cooper
whether it's David Cooper we'll talk about, 当然还有Martin Seligman
whether it's Martin Seligman of course, 都会去那里给大家讲座
will come there and present to you 你将和他们亲密相处
and you'll be spending quality time in small groups with them. 真是一种特权
Real privilege. 今天我想结束有关基础前提的讨论
So what I want to do today is finish up on the basic premises, 讨论最后一个前提
on the final premise. 还要再看这个吗 不
Now we are going to watch it again. No? 这个也不用看了
Or that? 可以了
Here we go. 最后也是第五个前提很重要
The final and the fifth premise is an important one; 是一个哲学前提
is a philosophical one 但我想在课程开始时介绍
but one I want to introduce at the beginning of the course 你们好理解我讲课的起源
so that you understand where I am coming from, 这门课程的来源
where this course is coming from-- 因为很多人说
because many people say, 好的 快乐是重要的
"Ok, so happiness is important. 我们寻找它 我们有宣言
We seek it; we have declarations-- 国家宣言
national declarations, 关于快乐对我们多么重要的个人宣言
individual declarations of how important it is for us. 但那不代表它是重要的 问题在于这个"是"
But that doesn't mean that it is important or the "is", 它是重要的但不代表我们应该去做
the fact that it is important doesn't mean we ought to do it. 我认为它不仅重要
My argument here is that not only is it important, 而且也应该是重要
it also ought to be important. 首先要阐述这个"是"
So first about the "is". 快乐 不论我们喜欢与否
Happiness, whether we like it or not, 不论它是有意识地
whether it's consciously , 还是潜意识地 不论它是明显的还是隐晦的
subconsciously, whether it's explicit or implicit, 对多数人来说
for most people-- 不是全部但对多数人来说
not all, but for most people, 快乐是最高追求
it is the highest end. 我们有宪法保证我们追求快乐
And again, we have Constitution save God in our pursuit of happiness. 我们投入大量努力
We spend a lot of effort, 大量时间思考自己和他人的快乐
a lot of time thinking about it for ourselves as well as for others. 二千多年前的亚里斯多德
Aristotle, over 2000 years ago, "快乐是人生的意义和目的
"Happiness is the meaning and purpose of life, 人类存在的最终目标"
the whole aim and end of human existence." William James
William James 1890年在"宗教经验之种种"中写道
in 1890 or in "The Variety of Religious Experiences" writes, " 如果要问
If we were to ask the question: 人类生命最主要的担心是什么?
"What is human life's chief concern?" 我们应该得到的一个答案是
one of the answers we should receive would be: "是快乐"
"It is happiness." 如何获得 如何保持
How to gain, how to keep, 如何重获快乐
how to recover happiness, 是多数人时刻怀有的秘密动机
is in fact for most men at all times the secret motive of all they do, 是他们愿意忍受一切的目的
and all they are willing to endure." 你们可能听说过William James
Now you may have heard of William James-- 这里有幢大楼以他命名
his name is after the building here. 他在二百多年前谈到快乐
And he talked about this over 200 years ago; 亚里斯多德在二千多年前也谈过
Aristotle over 2000 years ago. 而且不只是西方人
And it's not just peculiar to the West. 达赖喇嘛 "不论一个人是否相信宗教
The Dalai Lama, "Whether one believes in a religion or not, 不论一个人相信这种还是那种宗教
whether one believes in this religion or that religion, 我们生命的最终目标是快乐
the very purpose of our life is happiness. 我们生命的主要活动是寻找快乐"
The very motion of our life is towards happiness." 快乐是重要的
So it is important for people. 不论是有意识的
Again, whether it's conscious, 还是潜意识的 明显的还是隐晦的
subconscious, explicit or implicit, 问题是它确实重要
the question though is in fact it is important, 但快乐应该是重要的吗？
should it be important? 快乐的道德维度呢？
What about the moral dimension of happiness? 还有很多事情在发生
There are so many other things happening, 世上有很多重要的事情要做
so many important things to do in the world. 为什么把快乐作为最终目标
Why should we have happiness as our highest end, 作为主要担心
as our chief concern, 为什么由它来决定生命活动？
as that which determines the motion of our life? 换言之 幸福有什么好处？
In other words, what's good about wellbeing? 积极情绪有什么好处？
What's good about positive emotions? 大量研究都尝试回答这个问题
And there is a lot of research to answer this question. 暂不说研究
But before the research, 感觉好就是感觉好
it feels good to feel good. 想到快乐 注入内心
Think about it. Internalize it. 这是亚里斯多德的"同一律"
This is Aristotle's Law of Identity: 一即一 感觉好就是感觉好
A is A-- it feels good to feel good. 这本身就是辩解理由
And that, in and of itself is justification: 如果能感觉好 为什么不感觉好呢?
why not feel good, if we can feel good? 证明
So the burden to prove 快乐为什么是不重要的重担可能落在
why happiness is not important may be on the people 执否定观点的人身上
who would argue otherwise-- 我们会在以后谈到这个论点
we will talk about that argument later. 但首先的关键问题是快乐本身是好的
But the first key issue is that it's good in and of itself-- 几乎无需辩解
almost needs no justification. 然而除了感觉好
However, beyond just feeling good, 快乐还对我们的人生有帮助
happiness also contributes to our life, 对人际关系有帮助
to our relationships. 对他人有帮助
It contributes to other people. Barbara Fredrickson做了这项研究
This is research done by Barbara Fredrickson, 在宾州大学任教的学会成员
one of the faculty members who teaches at U PENN. 你们曾在上面见过她的照片
You saw a picture of her up there. Barbara Fredrickson的观点是
What Barbara Fredrickson says is that 积极情绪有一个进化理由
positive emotions have an evolutionary reason, 它们的目的不仅仅是让人感觉好
that they have a purpose beyond just making us feel good. 比如它们有助我们超越
For example, they help us think beyond 现在的思考范畴 拓展我们的思想
what we are thinking right now, broaden our thinking; 有助我们建立人际关系
they help us build relationships; 帮助我们建立能力
they help us build capacities-- 这门课的一个主要概念
remember one of the key concepts of this course 就是积极情绪
is the positive emotions, 积极心理学
positive psychology as a field as a whole, 就是要建立能力
is about building capacities. 我们使用的两个类比
The two analogies we use 是加强我们的免役系统或加强"心理引擎"
was strengthening our immune system or stronger "psychological engine" 获得更强大的忍受能力
that has the capacity to endure more 不只是从负到零
not just from the negative to zero, 还要从零到正
but also from the zero to the positive. 这是Barbara Fredrickson的观点
So this is Barbara Fredrickson. 我想进一步引用她的文章
Let me quote extensively from her article, 也是你们这周要阅读的
which I believe you are reading for this week, "我们应该努力培育积极情绪
"We should work to cultivate positive emotions 在自己身上和周围人身上
in ourselves and in those around us, 不能只将它们作为终极状态
not just as end states in themselves, 还要将其作为手段实现心理成长
but also as a means to achieving psychological growth 改善心理和身体的健康
and improved psychological and physical health over time. 我称其为积极情绪的扩建理论
I call this the broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions 因为积极情绪似乎能扩展人们的瞬间想法
because positive emotions appear to broaden people's momentary thought 和动作指令库并建立持久的个人资源
action repertoire and build the enduring personal resources. 通过体验积极情绪
Through experiences of positive emotions, 人们实现改变
people transform themselves, 变得更有创造力 更博学
becoming more creative, knowledgeable, 适应性更强 更易融入社会
resilient, socially integrated, 获得更健康的人格"
and healthy individuals." 体验积极情绪有诸多好处
Numerous benefits to just experiencing positive emotions. 是双赢的
It's a win-win. 它让人感觉好
It feels good. 对我们有好处 对整个社会也有好处
And it's good for us and it's good for society as a whole 一会我就会解释
as I'll argue momentarily. 她谈到的问题包括
So what she's talking about here, for example, 积极情绪有助我们克服消极情绪
is that positive emotions help us overcome negative emotions. 体验消极情绪时
What happens when we experience negative emotions 我们的意识
is that our consciousness, 我们的思维变得狭窄 收紧
our thinking narrows and constricts. 只专注于一件事 比如
We focus just on one thing, so for example. 那可能是件好事
And that can be a good thing-- 一头狮子朝我冲过来
you know, a lion comes to and charges me, 我不想考虑宾州大学硕士申请的事
"I don't want to start thinking about my MAPP application. 不想考虑室友说了什么
I don't want to start thinking about what my roommates say. 我只想考虑这头狮子
I want to focus on the lion. 我的意识变得狭窄 收紧
So my consciousness narrows and constricts, 进入"对抗或逃跑"模式
and I'm in the "fight or flight" mode. 有狮子朝我冲来时是件好事
Now that's a good thing when a lion charges me. 但它变得不是很好
But it's not a very good thing 如果我的意识继续狭窄
if my consciousness continues to narrow 收紧超出威胁 超出困难
and constrict beyond the threat, or beyond the hardship. 我们知道经常会进入下行螺旋
And what we know is that very often we enter a downward spiral, 一个恶性循环 当我们进入狭窄收紧的模式
a vicious cycle when we go into this narrow and constrict mode. 随便举个例子
So for example, just for example-- a random example: 女朋友离开了我
My girlfriend leaves me, alright? 我的思维收窄缩紧
And I narrow and constrict in terms of my thinking-- 一心只想着被女友甩了
all I am thinking about is just that. 结果就是
And what will happen is as a result, 我感觉悲伤
I experience sadness, 因为我一心只想那个 悲伤
because that is what I am thinking about, and sadness-- 是一种痛苦的情绪 一种消极情绪
a painful emotion, not a positive emotion-- 导致进一步的收窄缩紧
leads to further narrow and constrict. 那有可能
And that can potentially, 并非总是 但可能一直持续下去
not always, but potentially can go on and on and on. 直到变成抑郁
And that's when it can become depression. 那时我将很难脱离这种下行
That's when I have difficulty getting out of this downward, 恶性的循环
vicious cycle. 积极情绪正相反
Positive emotions do the opposite. 它们扩展建立
They broaden and build. 扩建导致积极情绪
Broaden and build leads to positive emotions. 积极情绪再进一步扩建
Then positive emotions further broaden and build. 所以是个良性循环
So that's a virtuous cycle. 我眼界宽了
And I look broadly, 关注其他人
I look to othe people, 关注其他事 思考现在我能做什么?
I look to other things: So what can I do now? 我能去哪里?我把时间用在哪里?
Where can I go? Where can I spend my time? 很经常的是
And very often what that does-- 积极情绪把我们带出下行螺旋
a positive emotion can take us out of this downward spiral 形成一个上行螺旋
and create an upward spiral. 积极情绪可以是看一部滑稽电影
A positive emotion can come in form of watching a humorous film; 可以是"一次深呼吸"
it can come in form of "if you take a deep breath"-- 探讨"心理 身体"时会谈到深呼吸
we talked about deep breathing when we talked about my body; 积极情绪可以是与朋友交流
a positive emotion can come in form of interaction with a friend, 一次愉快的交流
a pleasant one. 积极情绪
It's the positive emotion 能把我们带离这个下行螺旋进入这个上行螺旋
that can take us out from this downward spiral to this upward spiral. 而且不用很久
And again it doesn't always take a very long time. 困难在于将之与准许为人相结合
And the challenge is to combine "the permission to be human" 去体会情绪 实现转移
to experience the emotion to go through the motion 但不会进入下行螺旋
and yet not to enter the downward spiral where six months later, 在发生小小意外六个月后 仍心情低落
after small incident, I'm still in that rot. 我们会谈到什么是合适的时候
We'll talk about what is the right time 如何找到合适的时候
and how do you find the right time, 以及如何在
how do you find the balance 思考痛苦情绪
between thinking about painful emotions 和让痛苦情绪滑入沉思到平衡
and when does it slide to rumination, 沉思并非总有帮助
which is not always helpful. 它有助克服消极情绪
So it helps overcome the negative emotions. 还有创造力 我们的眼界更宽
Also, creativity-- we think broadly-- 能产生更多联系
we are able to make connections, 看到以前没有看到的联系
see connections we haven't seen before, perhaps. 有很多关于"抑郁创造者"的说法
There's a lot of the talk about the depressive creature. 如果你想拥有更高水平的创造力
If you want to have high level of creativity, 必须承受抑郁
it's a must you have to be depressed. 其实并非如此
Well, it turns out that's not the case. 躁狂抑郁病人一般更有创造力
Very often manic depressives are highly creative, 但一般在躁狂阶段
but that's usually during their manic phases. 在抑郁阶段 我们的思维收窄
In the depressed phase, our thinking is narrow; 我们失去创造力
we don't think outside the box usually-- 当然有例外 但总体而言没有
of course there's many exceptions, but as a whole. 实际上有这样一项研究
In fact there's research-- 在内科医生 医生中间进行
for example, this was done with internists, doctors, 向他们提出一个
who are giving a very difficult, 与肝脏问题有关的很困难的问题
very difficult question connected to a liver problem 那是一个病人的病症
that an individual patient had. 医生们被随机分成三组
And they divided them randomly into three groups-- 第一组是对照组
the first group was a control group-- 他们必须解决这个问题
they just had to solve the problem; 第二组听一段有关
the second group was given a statement 医学人文观的声明
about humanistic value of medicine-- 为什么作医生如此重要
why is it so important to be a medical doctor; 第三组得到糖果
and the third group was given candy 让他们获得愉快放松的好心情
and put in a funny playful good mood. 第三组得到糖果
The third group that was given the candies 并获得积极愉快的心情
and put in a positive playful mood 明显比另外两组有更好表现
outperformed the other two groups significantly-- 他们考虑更多选择
they thought about more options 得出更好的问题解决办法
and they actually came up with better solutions with that problem. 这是这个领域中的一项研究
And this is one of many studies in this area. 再举个例子 小孩子
Another example-- children. 一群小孩组成对照组
One group of children was a control group; 有人教第二组小孩回想
the second group was taught to think back 让他们大笑或微笑的经历
to experience that make them laugh or smile. 第二组
And that group did much better 在学习任务上比对照组表现更好
on the learning task than the control group, 因为他们被置于积极情绪
because they were put into a positive mood. 它是双赢的
Again, it's a win-win. 它在很多方面定义了"没有痛苦就没有回报"
It's defined in many ways that "no pain, no gain" paradigm, 不论是对医生的教育还是在学校
whether it's education of doctors or in school, 在一般的工作场所也一样
as well as generally in the workplace. 因为动力和精力
Because you see, also motivation and energy-- 不需要研究就能明白
you don't need research for that, 你知道感觉好时
you know that when you are feeling good, 动力和精力更充沛
you have more motivation, you have more energy-- 当然有很多研究支持这一点
of course, there is a lot of research to back that up. 最终达到成功
And ultimately success. 他们调查专业人士
They look in the professional people 能更好地控制自己的情绪
who are able to manage their emotions 获得积极情绪
better and lead to positive emotions, 脱离狭窄收紧进入扩建的人
get out of this narrow and constrict to the broaden and build 长远会取得更大成功
are in the long term more successful. 他们不是没有痛苦情绪
Again, it's not that people who don't have painful emotions-- 没有的都是死人
remember? They are all dead. 那些人经历痛苦情绪
It's that people who experience painful emotions 但同时能够更好地
but are all in the same time able to shift themselves, 把自己 他们的意识 思想
their consciousness, their thinking, 他们的感受向积极方向转移
their experience to the positive more readily. 越快乐的人越成功
And happier people are more successful, 因为他们有更多精力 工作更努力
because they have more energy and work harder. 因为他们在追求
It's because their pursuing something 而不是在逃离
rather than running away from something-- 这叫"靠近而非逃避目标"
it is called "approach rather than avoidance goals"-- 我们将在探讨"目标"时谈到
we'll talk about that during the week on goals. 还因为他们建立更好的人际关系
Also because they form better relationships. 他们更开放更宽容
They are more open and generous. 他们的创造力更强
And they are more creative. 所有这些因素最终导致更高层次的成功
All these components ultimately lead to higher levels of success. 积极情绪不仅有助成功
Positive emotions not only contribute to our success, 不仅能让我们感觉好
they don't just contribute to our feeling good, 还有助我们获得幸福
they also contribute to our wellbeing. 乐观的人
Optimistic people, and again, 不是指盲目的乐天派
not Pollyannaish detached optimism, 而是脚踏实地的乐观主义者
but grounded optimists, 平均而言 明显更加长寿
on average, live significantly longer. 保佑你们
Bless you. 免疫系统更强
The immune system is stronger, 所以对身体健康也有帮助
so it also helps in terms of physical health. 现在的问题是 道德问题
But now the question is the moral question: 那么其他人呢?
What about other people? 我谈论经营自己的生活
How can I talk about or act in my life, 追求自己的快乐 这怎么不是自私?
pursuing my happiness isn't that selfish? 答案是"是的 那是自私"
Ant the answer is: "Yes, it is selfish." 当我对自己说
When I talk to myself, when I say to myself, "我想更快乐"
"I want to be happier", 我对自己说"我想更快乐"
I say to myself, "I want to be happier." 那是一件自私的事
That' s a selfish thing. 它是坏的吗?是不道德的吗?
So it that bad? Is that immoral? 在我们的文化中
Well, in our culture, 自私和不道德成了同义词
selfishness and immorality have essentially become synonymous. 那是个问题
And that's a problem. 这就是为什么 因为这是头号
And here's why. Because this is the No. 1-- 将自私等同于不道德是头号原因
equating to selfishness and immorality is the No. 1 cause-- 多数是在潜意识里
subconsciously mostly, but not only-- 导致不快乐的头号原因
No. 1 cause of unhappiness. 人们为追求自己的快乐感到内疚
Because people feel guilty about pursuing their own happiness. 人们在自我感觉很好时会内疚
People feel guilty at times feeling good about themselves. 我怎么可以? 我怎么敢自我感觉良好?
How can I? How dare I feel good about myself? 我怎么能追求自己的快乐
How can I pursue my happiness 当世上有那么多痛苦时?
when there is so much suffering in the world? 世上确有很多痛苦
And there is a lot of suffering in the world. 我们要如何回应?
So how do we respond to that? 首先 快乐是正和博弈
First of all, happiness is a positive sum game-- 不是零和博弈
it's not a zero sum game. 也不是负和博弈
Neither it is a negative sum game-- 我的快乐不是从别人那里夺来
it's not that my happiness takes away from other people's happiness 那将是负和博弈
which will be a negative sum game: 我有更多 你一定更少
if I have more, you'll necessarily have less. 甚至不是一个零…
It's not even a zero-- 或者我更少
or rather if I have less, 你也会更少 那也是负和博弈
you'll have less- that's a negative sum game-- 或零和博弈 我更多 你就会更少
or a zero sum game-- if I have more, you'll have less- 饼就那么大
it's a fixed pie. 不是这样的
It's not that. 它是一个正和博弈
It's a positive sum game. 为什么?因为快乐是感染的
Why? Because happiness is contagious. 如果我更快乐 我更有可能
If I'm happier, I'm more likely 对他人的快乐和幸福作出贡献
to contribute to other people's happiness and wellbeing. 感受快乐 换言之
Being happy, in other words, 也是一种道德状态
is also a moral state in the sense of actually contributing 对他人的幸福作出贡献
to other people's wellbeing. 佛在几千年前就谈到它
The Buddha talked about it thousands of years ago, "一支蜡烛可以点燃千支蜡烛
"Thousands of candles can be lit from a single candle, 蜡烛的生命不会被缩短
and the life of the candle will not be shortened. 分享绝不会减少快乐"
Happiness never decreases by being shared." 就像传递光明
It's like passing on light. 你快乐并努力争取快乐
If you are happy, and work on your happiness, 就是间直接对他人的快乐作出贡献
you are contributing indirectly to other people's happiness, 就像上次大笑的婴儿 把你们逗笑
just like the baby who laughed last time-- made you laugh. 笑是感染的
It's contagious. 一般来说 努力争取快乐的人
Generally people who work on their happiness-- 再一次 不是那些总是保持快乐的人
again, not people who experience constantly high, 那种人将很难建立人际关系
they would have difficulty having real relationships 因为他们是死的
since they are dead-- 一般来说 活着的人
but generally, people, those of us who are alive, 努力争取快乐
who work on happiness, 体验生活的变迁 起起落落
who experience the vicissitude of life-- the ups and downs-- 但努力争取快乐而且越来越快乐
but overall work on happiness and become happier and happier, 有更好的人际关系
have better relationships, 更宽容 更接受他人
more generous, more accepting of other people, 更容忍他人和他们自己
more tolerant of other people as well as themselves. 很多研究表明自我帮助
There's a lot of research to show that helping ourselves, 换言之 努力为自己争取快乐
in other words, working on our happiness, 有助我们获得幸福
contributing to our wellbeing, 也能引导我们对他人更加宽容和亲切
leads us to also be more generous and benevolent toward others. 一位重要的研究者
This is a research by one of the leading researchers, 积极情绪领域的首批研究者之一
one of the first researches in the area of positive emotions, Alice Isen进行了这个研究
Alice Isen. 她反复证明
And she showed, time and again, 感觉好如何对我们和他人都有益
how feeling good is good for us and good for others, 反之亦然
and it works the other way as well. 这是快乐很美妙的地方
This is a wonderful thing about happiness. 别人快乐你也快乐
It works the other way as well, 因为帮助他人也是帮助自己
because helping others also helps ourselves. 记得你们这周的任务
Remember your task for this week-- 一些同学已经知道
a dozen of you have already read it-- 就是去做超越以往所做的事情
it's to commit- above and beyond what you usually commit- 一天内多做五件好事
five extra acts of kindness during one day. 多做五件好事
Five extra acts of kindness. 这是Sonja Lyubomirsky做过的一项研究
This is a research done by Sonja Lyubomirsky-- 我在第一堂课提及她的书
I mentioned her book in the first class: 《快乐之道》
"The how of happiness". 她很好地
She's done fantastic work, 证明人们
showing how people who help-- 不论是在一周内多做五件好事
whether it's helping five extra acts during the week-- 可以更多
it can be more; 不必局限于五件
doesn't have to be restricted to five-- 或者人们在一天内多做五件好事
or people who help five extra acts during one day, 都能让他们更幸福
it's actually contributing to their wellbeing. 帮助他人也是帮助自己
So helping others is also helping ourselves. 我说到的一件事 只说了一半意思
You know, one of the things that I say and only half ingest, 即最自私的所为就是善举
is that I know of no more selfish act and a benevolent act. 只说了一半意思
Again, only half ingest-- 因为两者有内在联系
because the two are interconnected. 两者间有自我实施的循环
And there is a self-enforcing loop between the two, 帮助他人就是帮助自己
where helping others helps ourselves; 帮助自己继而帮助他人
and helping ourselves, in turn, helps others. 不要把它看作自私
And rather than looking it as selfish-- 有人可能会这样简单考虑
some people may feel this ease way-- 不该把自私等同于不道德
and rather than looking it as selfish i.e. -- equal immoral. 我们应该把它视为
We should look at it as something 人性的美妙之处
that is so wonderful about our nature, 是我们应该颂扬的本性
a part of our nature that we should celebrate. 我们的快乐与他人的相关连
The fact that our happiness is tied to others, 我们通过同情网络和他人相关连
the fact that we are tied to others in a web of empathy-- 那是人性的美妙之处
that's a wonderful thing about human nature. 一样值得我们进一步颂扬的东西
A thing that we need to celebrate much more than we are doing already. 如果不颂场
Because remember, if we don't celebrate, 如果我们不欣赏人性的那一部分
if we don't appreciate that part of our nature, 人性的那一部分将贬值
that part of our nature will depreciate. 欣赏有两个意思
To appreciate has two meanings as we talked about: 一是懂得感谢 二是传递
one is to say "thank you" for something and two is to grow. 如果我们欣赏人性中
If we appreciate the good in our nature, 欲望中好的东西
in our inclinations, 如果我们欣赏本性中那一部分
if we appreciate that part of our nature, 它将升值 我们将获得更多
it will appreciate and we'll have more of it. 如果我鄙视它并说
If we look down at it and say, "很可怕
"It's a terrible thing that 我从帮助他人身上获得利益"
I just derive benefits from helping other people", 那么本性中那一部分将随时间贬值
then that part of our nature will depreciate over time. 你们正在读我书中的冥想部分
For your readings, you are reading one of the meditations in my book, 书中有更详细的阐述
where I talk about it a little bit more in length, 也给出了哲学基础
and I also gave the philosophical foundation, 因为在很多方面有别于"数数和思考"
because in many ways this goes against "counting and thinking" 那种方法在20和21世纪处于统治地位
that has been so dominant in our 20th and 21st century 思考道德
thinking about morality. 感谢好就是感觉好
It feels good to feel good. 也能让他人感觉好
It also contributes to others to feel good. 我想以介绍一位
I want to end this premise idea 一生致力于
by talking a little bit about a person for whom, 传播快乐的人来结论这个前提
one of the chief purpose in life was to spread happiness-- 圣雄甘地 这是关于他的一个故事
Mahatma Gandhi. This is a story about him. 一个女人像很多人一样
There was a woman like many people came 来寻求甘地的建议
to ask for advice from Gandhi. 她长途赶来
And she came from very far away. 还带着儿子
And she brought her son along. 她拜见甘地
And she said in front-- she got audience with Mahatma, 在他面前说 她对他说
and she said in front of him, and she said to him "我长途赶来 因为我儿子有个问题
"I came from afar, because I have a problem with my son. 我儿子吃太多糖
My son eats way too much sugar. 希望你能告诉他别吃太多糖
And I'd like you to tell him to stop it. 因为糖损害他的健康 牙齿
Because it's hurting his health, his teeth. 他会听你的 他很崇拜你"
And he will listen to you. He admires you. 甘地看着她说
" Gandhi looked at her and said, "夫人 你能一个月后再来吗?"
"Madam, can you please come back in a month?" 她不明白为什么但还是听了他的话
She didn't know why but she listened to him after all-- 因为他是甘地
he was Gandhi. 她离开 长途返回
She left, went far away, 一个月后又回来
came all the way back a month later, 再次与甘地见面
and once again, got an audience with Gandhi. 她在他面前说
She said in front of him, 她说"一个月前我来过"
She said "I was here a month ago." 他说"是的 我记得"
And he said, "Yes. I remember." 她说"你能告诉我儿子
And she said, "Could you please tell my son 不要吃太多糖吗?"
to stop eating so much sugar?" 于是甘地注视着那个孩子说
So Gandhi looks at the child intensely and says, "孩子 不要再吃太多糖"
"Son, stop eating too much sugar." 就是这样
And that's it. 那个女人很困惑 她鼓起勇气
The woman is obviously perplexed and musters up her courage, 说"圣雄 非常感谢
and says, "Mahatma, thank you very much. 我肯定他不会再吃太多糖
I'm sure he will stop eating too much sugar, 但为什么不在一个月前告诉他
but why couldn't you tell him this a month ago, 在我长途赶来的时候?"
when I came all the way here?" 他说"夫人 因为一个月前
And he said, "Well, madam, because a month ago, 我也吃太多糖"
I was eating too much sugar." 是的 我知道这是个很深奥的笑话
Yeah, I know, it's a very sophisticated joke-- 需要时间 很高兴你们消化了
it takes a while, but I'm glad you got it. 甘地说过一件事
One of the things Gandhi said, 出自他的精彩自传
that he talked about is from his wonderful autobiography, 《我的对于真理的实践经历》
"My experiment with truth"-- "成为你想在世上见到的改变"
"Be the change you want to see in the world." 只有这样才能实现改变
This is how you bring about change. 我和想大家作个小练习
I want to do a quick exercise with you. 特别对男生来说是个困难练习
This is a tough exercise especially for guys, 但请忍耐
but please bear with me. 感觉不舒服的
So-- if you don't feel comfortable doing it, 就不要做 希望按下面的指示做
don't do it-- what I'd like to do now is as following: 让你的姆指和中指
Take your thumb and your middle finger 尽可能形成一个直角
and create as much as possible a 90 degree angle. 可能有点痛
May hurt a little bit, 尽可能形成一个直角
but try as much as possible to create a 90 degree angle. 看着我 就像这样
Ok, watch me: Just like this, Ok? 直角
90 degree angle. 再让这两个手指
Now take these two fingers-- 中指和姆指
the middle finger and the thumb-- 尽可能保持直角时围成一个圆圈
and as much as possible, from that 90 degree angle, create a circle. 男性比女性更难做到
Again, it's more difficult for men than for women-- 男性的柔韧度更小
less flexible. 围成一个圆圈
Create a circle. 看上去像只兔子
So it looks like a rabbit. 如果能投影的话
If you have them on the show. 中指和姆指
Middle finger exactly and your thumb. 好 看着我
Alright, just watch me. 像这样 尽可能围成一个圆圈
Like this. As much as possible. 不是完美的圆但要尽力
It's not perfectly round, but as much as possible. 把这个围起来的圆圈
Now take that circle that you have just created-- 看到吗? 这是个圆圈
Can you see? That's a circle. 把这个圆圈放在面颊上
Take that circle and put it on your cheek. 另一个地方
Your other cheek. 可能需要一会
Ok, this could also take a while. 我看到的多数同学都放在了下巴上
But most people from what I see, put it on their chin. 我很清楚地说是"面颊"
Now I said it very clearly, "cheek". 问题就在这里
But you see, here is the thing: 多数人都是照你做的做而不是照你说的做
People mostly do what you do, rather than what you say. 请记住这一点
So remember that, 我不认为课堂上有任何人
because I don't think there is anyone in this room 会告诉我
who would tell me now, "我的人生目标是让别人不幸
"my goal in life, my objective is to make people miserable. 我真得想那么做
I really want to do that. 我想要世上所有人都不幸"
You know I want everyone to be miserable in the world." 这里不会有人真得说出那种话 希望如此
There is not one person here who would actually say that, I hope. 我们在座的多数人 不论做什么
So most of us here, whatever we do in our lives, 从现在到未来 都是理想主义者
now and in the future, are idealists. 我们想为世人造福
We want to do good in the world; 想传播快乐
we want to spread happiness. 但记住 人们照你做的做
But remember, people do what you do, 不是照你说得做
not what you say. 你也许想传播快乐 通过你的言话
So you may want to spread happiness, through your word. 但最好的方法
But ultimately, the best way, 传播快乐的最佳方法是努力争取自己的快乐
the optimal way spreading happiness is to work on your own happiness, 因为那时你就成为榜样
because then you are leading by example. 这也适用于领导
That applies to leadership. 领导最重要的不是说的话
The most important thing about leadership is not what you say; 而是如何以身作则
it's what you do. 为人父母最重要的
The most important thing about parenting-- 不是告诉子女"诚实很重要"
it's not how much you tell your child "honesty is important" 而是你自身有多诚实
but rather how honest you are. 如果你想传播快乐
If you want to spread happiness, "成为你想在世上见到的改变" 以身作则
"Be the change you want to see in the world." By example. 这就是五个基本前提
So these are the five basic premises that we talked about. 它们构成这门课的基础
They formed the foundation of the course. 我们将在未来两个月
And what we are going to do over the next couple of month 扩展这些前提
is expand on these-- 最重要的是如何将研究
most importantly, see how we can take the research, 原则运用于生活
the rigor and apply it to our lives. 现在开始下一课
So let me move on now to the next lecture, "信念即自我实现预言"
which is "Belief as Self-Fulfilling Prophecies". 我必须承认
This I must say, 这个话题点燃了我的想象
this topic ignited my imagination 当我是孩子时想到它
when I was a kid when I thought about it; 当我还是一名运动员时
when I was an athlete. 那时我明白了信念的力量
And that's when I understood the power of the mind. 后来它挑起我对心理学的兴趣
And that would pick my interests in psychology. 我想从一个特别的故事开始
I want to start with a story, a specific story, 在很多方面 它是我听到过的
that in many ways I can say it is the first story, 第一个有关心理学的故事
psychological story that I heard of. 那个故事让我明白
The story that I heard that brought home to me the message 心理学对幸福和成功是多么重要
how important psychology is to wellbeing and to success. 成功对14岁的壁球手来说
And success, as a fourteen years-old squash player, 是我生命中最重要的东西
was the most important thing in my life. 故事讲的是Roger Bannister
And the story is of Roger Bannister. 举下手
Just so I get a show of hands: 多少人听说过他?好的 只有少数
how many people have heard of Roger Bannister? Ok. A handful. 听过的可以重温一次
So those of you who have, can hear it again. Roger Bannister是个跑手
Roger Bannister was a runner. 跑一英里
He ran the mile. 直到1954年 在四分钟以内跑完一英里
And until 1954, running the mile in under 4 minutes 被认为是不可能的
was considered impossible. 事实上医生证明四分钟跑一英里
In fact, doctors proved the 4 minutes for the mile 是人类能力的极限
was the limit of human ability. 生理学家进行实验
Physiologists ran tests, 在科学上展示证明人类能力极限
showing, proving scientifically the limit of human ability 是四分钟跑一英里
was running the mile in 4 minutes. 不可能少于四分钟
You could not go below that. 跑手们证明了医生和科学家…
And runners proved the doctors and scientists-- 证明了他们是对的
proved that they were right 一英里跑四分钟两秒
and ran the mile in two seconds and 4 minutes, 四分钟一秒 但没有跑手能少于四分钟
one second, but no runner could run the mile in under 4 minutes, 从一英里跑计时以来
ever since the mile was actually timed-- 当人们开始计时跑时
when they started to time runs. 那是不可能的 医生和科学家证明了
It was impossible-- doctors and scientists showed, 跑手 运动员
runners, athletes, 世上顶尖选手证明了医生们是对的
the top-ones in the world proved that the doctors were right. 然后Roger Bannister出现
And then came along Roger Bannister. 他说"四分钟内跑完是可能的
Roger Bannister said, "It is possible to run in 4 minutes. 我要做给你们看"
And in fact, I'm going to do it." 说这话时 他是牛津大学的医学博士
Now when he said it, he was a medical doctor at Oxford University. 也是一名出色的跑手
He was a good runner, 顶级跑手 但时间远高于四分钟
top runner, but nowhere near the 4 minutes mark. 他的最好时间是四分12秒
His best time was 4 minutes and 12 seconds. 自然没有人把他当真
And of course, no one took him seriously. 但Roger Bannister坚持苦练
But Roger Bannister continued to train and work hard, 不比别的跑手练得更苦
not harder than the rest of the runners, 但和世上别的跑手一样苦练
but as hard as the top runners in the world. 而且有进步
And he did get better. 他突破了四分十秒
In fact, he broke the 4 minutes and 10 seconds mark, 四分五秒
4 minutes and 5 seconds mark 跑到四分两秒时停止
and he got 4 minutes and 2 seconds and stopped, 像所有人一样
like everyone else-- 无法低于四分二秒
could not go below the 4 minutes and 2 seconds. 他不是世上最好的跑手
So he wasn't even the best runner in the world, 但也是佼佼者
but among the best. 但他还是说"有可能
But he continued to say "it is possible; 在这件事上人类没有极限
there is no human limitation on that; 我们能在四分钟之内跑完一英里"
we can run the mile in under 4 minutes." 他坚持这么做 坚持练习 却一直失败
And he continued to say, continued to train for years. 直到1954年 1954年5月6日
Until 1954. On the 6th of May, 1954, 在重回故校时
on his home tour at Oxford University, Roger Bannister用了3分59秒跑完一英里
Roger Bannister ran the mile in 3 minutes and 59 seconds. 轰动一时 登上全世界的头版头条
Sensation. Front page news all over the world. "科学遭到挑战""医生遭到挑战"
"Science defied". "Doctors defied". "不可能成为可能"
"The impossible made possible". 它成为梦想一英里
It became known as the dream mile. 现在听这个
Now listen to this. 数十年来 自从开始一英里跑计时以来
For decades, ever since the mile was timed, 没有人突破四分钟界限
no one broke the four minute barrier. 那被认为是不可能的
It was considered impossible. 但在5月6日 Roger Bannister特做到了
And on the 6th of May, Roger Bannister does it. 六周后 澳大利亚跑手John Landy
Six weeks later, John Landy, the Australian runner, 一英里跑了3分57.9秒
runs the mile in 3 minutes 57.9 seconds. 第二年 1955年
The following year, 1955, 37名跑手在四分钟内跑完一英里
37 runners ran the mile in under 4 minutes. 1956年 超过三百名跑手突破四分钟界限
1956, over 300 runners break the 4 minute barrier. 这是怎么回事?
Now what happened? 运动员们更加努力训练?
Was it that somebody started to train harder? 当然不是
Of course not. 是有了新的技术 新的鞋子?
Was it new technologies, new shoes? 不是 是信念
It wasn't. It was the mind. 信念是多么强大
Look how powerful the mind is. 不是因为跑到那个时间
It wasn't the fact that they were running that time 就说"不好 超过速度极限了
and they say "Oops! We are over the speed limit! 放慢速度吧"
Let's slow down a little bit." 根本不是那样 他们尽了最大努力
Not at all! They were trying their hardest, 最大可能
their utmost. 然而他们的潜意识限制了他们
And yet, their subconscious mind limited them, 阻止他们突破界限
prevented them from breaking that barrier 那不是医生
that happened to be not a physical barrier as doctors, 生理学家和科学家们声称的身体界限
physiologists and scientists had claimed. 而是心理界限
It was a mental barrier. Roger Bannister攻破了那个要塞
And what Roger Bannister did was break down the fort, 意志和心理上的要塞
the mental psychological fort. 信念即自我实现预言
Beliefs are self-fulfilling prophecies. 它们经常决定我们的表现
Very often they determine how we perform, 我们表现的多好或多糟
how well or how poorly we perform. 经常决定我们的人际关系有多好或不那么好
They often determine how good or not so good our relationships are. 它们是人生成功和幸福的头号预言
They are the No. 1 predictor of life success as well as wellbeing, 我们将会谈到
as we'll talk about. 今天和下节课我们要谈的是
So what we are going to talk about today and next time 信念如何形成现实
is how beliefs shape reality. 它如何发挥作用?
How it works? 信念力量背后的机制和科学是什么?
What is the mechanism, the science behind the power of the mind? 因为在很多方面 这听上去像神秘主义
Because in many ways, this sounds like mysticism. 一部分是很神秘 仍无法理解
And part of it is mystical-- still not understandable-- 但我们会谈到我们所知的
but we are going to talk about as much as we know-- 信念为什么会起作用及如何起作用
why it works and how it works. 可惜 人们对乐观主义有很多误解
There is unfortunately a lot of misunderstanding about optimism. 因为自助运动在很多方面
Because the self-help movement in many ways 是在告诉我们信念力量是怎么回事
is about telling us how it's all about the power of the mind, 提到《思考致富》那本书
talk about "Think and grow rich", the book; 我们会讨论各种秘密
we'll talk about the secrets 它们如何通过思想创造现实
which is about creating our reality through our thoughts. 其中有些是事实 但仅是部分
And there's some truth to these-- but only some truth. 我们将连通象牙塔和主街
We are going to bridge Ivory tower and Main Street, 说明那个信仰背后的科学和危险
and show the science and also the danger behind that belief. 最重要的是如何应用?
Most importantly, how do we apply? 如何加强我们的信念
How do we enhance the belief in ourselves 如果真有这么紧密的关联
if there's such high correlation 如果希望
and there's a very high correlation 乐观主义和信念真的
and predictive power to a sense of hope, 有着非常紧密的关联和预测力
to a sense of optimism, to beliefs. 如果它们决定我们的产出
If they so much determine our outcome, 无论在体育场上
in the athletic field, 还是在工作地点 在人际关系上
in the workplace, in a relationship-- 如果它如此重要 那么该如何加强信念？
if it matters so much, then how can we raise our beliefs? 我们会谈到Bandura对自我效能的研究
And we'll talk about work by Bandura on self-efficacy, 谈到Nathaniel Branden对自尊的研究
or by Nathaniel Branden on self-esteem. 如何才能将梦想变成现实
How we can make a dream into reality-- 可以是政治梦想
whether it's political dream-- 我们将谈到马丁路德金的"梦想法"
we'll talk about Martin Luther King's dream approach- 他是如何做到 做了什么
how he did it and what he did; 也可以是个人梦想
or a personal dream, 我们会谈到Herbert Benson和Bandura
where we'll talk about the work of Herbert Benson as well as Bandura. 再一次引用佛的话
Once again, the Buddha, "境随心转
"We are what we think. 全由意念升起
All that we are arises with our thoughts. 我们的念头造就了世界"
With our thoughts, we make our world." 这是几千年前的一个主张
Again, this was a claim made thousands of years ago. 现在我要做的
What I want to do now 是专注于这个主张的科学基础
is focus on the scientific foundation of this claim. 我会从皮格马利翁开始讲起
And I'll start by talking about Pygmalion in the classroom. "Pygmalion"是古希腊语
The source of the word, Pygmalion is ancient Greece. 皮格马利翁是个雕刻家
Pygmalion was a sculptor. 成年后他开始寻找理想中的女人
And what he did was when he came of age looking for his ideal woman. 他想结婚
He wanted to get married. 他在雅典城里寻找
So he went and looked around Athens where he lived; 找遍整个希腊
he looked around the all of Greece; 找遍整个希腊帝国
he looked around the Greek Empire; 去希腊帝国以外寻找 寻找他理想中的女人
he looked beyond the Greek Empire, looking for his ideal woman-- 一个能和他结婚的女人
a woman whom he could marry. 但没有找到
And he couldn't find her, 不论去哪里找
no matter where he looked. 这是可以理解的
I mean it's understandable-- 那是1879年之前 雷德克利夫学院还没成立
this was before 1879 which was when Red Cliff was founded, 远在哈佛成为男女合校之前
and long before Harvard became co-ed. 他找不到理想中的女人 于是他返回雅典
So he couldn't find his ideal woman and he went back to Athens. 他对自己说
And he said to himself. "我不再寻找理想中的女人
"Well, instead of finding that ideal woman, 我要雕刻一座雕像"因为他是雕刻家
I will create a sculpture"-- as he was a sculptor, "我会以她的形象雕刻一座雕像"
"I will create a sculpture in her image." 他雕刻出那座雕像
And he created that sculpture. 当他看着她时
And when he looked at her, 他被激动之情和悲伤淹没
he was so overwhelmed with emotion and sadness 因为他找不到她
that he couldn't find her, 于是他开始哭泣
that he began to cry. 宙斯 雅典娜 特别是阿芙罗狄蒂
And then Zeus, Athena and especially Aphrodite, 俯视他 深感同情 于是把雕像变活
looking down on him, took mercy and brought the statue to life. 当然他们幸福地生活下去
And of course, they lived happily ever after. 这是这个词的由来
So this is the source of the word, Pygmalion. 然后萧伯纳借助这个词
Pygmalion was then taken by George Bernard Shaw, 创作了一部情节类似的戏剧
who created a play based on a similar idea 后来被改编成音乐剧《窈窕淑女》
which was made into a musical, "My Fair Lady". 说的是Higgins
The idea here is how Higgins, 一位博士 语言学家
doctor, linguist, 如何把一个卖花女塑造成贵族
took a flower girl and molded her in the sense into being royalty. 当然故事讲完时
What of course happened through the story 是她塑造了他 改变了他
was that she molded him more and transformed him. 非常精彩的故事 当时很重要的故事
Fascinating story and very important story at the time. 因为它挑战了整个阶级体系
Because it challenged the whole class system, 人生来就有阶级 不能
that people are born into a certain place and cannot-- 也不应该被改变
and should not-- be moved. 在当时是很重要的戏剧 今天也是如此
So a very important play at that time, as well as today. 皮格马利翁和人是可以被改变
About Pygmalion and people can be changed, 被改造的
can be transformed. 1960年代
In the 1960s, Robert Rosenthal曾在本系担任多年主任
Robert Rosenthal who was the head of our department for many years-- 现在就职加州大学河滨分校
he's now in UC Riverside-- 把皮格马利翁的思想应用于课堂
took this idea of Pygmalion and applied it in the classroom. 他是这么做的 Rosenthal随便走进几间学校
Here is what he did. Rosenthal went into a group of random schools. 去到学生中间
And what he did there was went to the students, 让他们接受一次测验
had them take a test 然后去找他们的老师并告诉他们
and then go to their teachers after and tell the teachers, "你们的学生刚接受了一个新测试
"Your students just took a new test that was devised-- 一种新的学业测试 叫作快速迸发者测试"
a new academic test which is called "the fast spurters' test". 测试能让我们找出
What that means is that we identify students 将在新学年在学业上
who are going to take a big leap, 取得巨大进步的学生
intellectual leap forward in this coming year, 在新学年取得巨大进步
a spurt forward in this coming year. 换言之 他的意思是
In other words, what he was saying-- 测试找出最有潜力的学生
it identifies students with highest potential. 他发现…
And what he found then was when he told these students-- 他对这些老师说的是
the teachers-- what he told these teachers was that "这只是仅供参考 不能向学生透露
"it is just not a FYI-- you cannot tell the students this. 我们不希望学校有歧视行为
We don't want any discrimination in your school, 只是让你们知道 这些学生有巨大潜力
but just so you know, these are your fast spurters. 这是一项新发明的测试
It's a new test, newly devised. 只有你们知道就好"老师们不知道的是
Just so you know." Unbeknownst to the teachers, 对学生进行的测试
the actual test which was given to those students 只是普通的现成的智商测试
was a regular off-the-shelf IQ test. 老师们也不知道这些所谓的
Also unbeknownst to the teachers was these students names, "快速迸发者"或者潜力巨大的学生
who were deemed "the fast spurters"/"high potential students", 都是从一个帽子抓阄抓出来的
were literally randomly picked out from a hat. 他们都是普通学生
So there were regular students, 和别的学生没有区别
like all other students, 但老师们以为他们有巨大潜力
but the teachers thought they were "fast spurters". Robert Rosenthal离开学校
Robert Rosenthal leaves the school, 学年结束时再回来
comes back in the end of the year. 他发现 他查看他们的英语成绩
And here's what he finds-- he looks at their English scores: "快速迸发"学生有明显进步
the "fast spurters" improved significantly 比任何学生的进步都快
more than any of the other students. 他查看他们的数学成绩
He looked at their maths scores, 因为英语不够客观
because English is not really objective 也许是老师们
and you know maybe it was the teachers 觉得某些学生英语更好
who thought they were better than they were really. 于是他查看他们的数学 客观的成绩
So he looked at their maths, their objective scores. 这些学生也有明显进步
These students improved significantly 比其他任何学生的进步都大
more than any of the other students. 接下来才是有决定性的结果
But here is the clincher: Robert Rosenthal又对所有学生
Robert Rosenthal administered once again an IQ test 进行了一次智商测试
for all the students. 他发现被标签为
And what he found was the students who were labeled-- 被随机地标签为"快速迸发"的学生
randomly so, but who were labeled-- 智商在一年间有很大增加
"fast spurters", their IQ increased significantly over the year 而且在长期研究中保持着增加
and maintained that increase in a longitudinal study. 这让人不解
Now this is my bog I mean: 智商
IQ is supposed to be in your intelligent quotient 本来是生而有之的
that you are born with! 它是恒定的
It's immutable. 从出生到死亡时都不会改变
It doesn't change from the day you were born to the day you die-- 或者说他们这样认为
or so they thought. 但它却因为
It changed significantly just based the belief 老师对学生的信念而改变
that the teacher had in her/his students. 信念即自我实现预言
Belief as self-fulfilling prophecies. 这项研究说明了什么？
What happened in the study? 老师们被骗了吗？
Was it that the teachers were fooled? 突然产生幻象? 不是的
And suddenly were made to see an illusion? No. 是因为他们之前被欺骗
It was that they were alluded before. 幻象是他们看不到
and the illusion was that they didn't see 就在他们眼前的东西
what is right in front of their very eyes, 即每个学生都有潜力
which is the potential inherent in every single student. Robert Rosenthal来到 可以说是骗了他们
And then Robert Rosenthal comes and fools them in a sense, "骗"他们注意到一直在眼前的东西
but "fools" them into seeing what has been there all along. 在那之前 他们没注意到车上的孩子
Before Rosenthal, they didn't see children on the bus. 可以这么说
So to speak. 之后 突然他们在一些孩子身上
After that, they suddenly in some children 看到一直都有的潜力
saw the potential that was there all along. 他们欣赏那种潜力 潜力得到升值
And they appreciated that potential and that potential appreciated. 他们灌溉 播撒阳光
They watered, they shed a light to it 种子开始发芽生长
and the seed germinated and grew. 这正是Marva Collins每天在学校里做的事
This is exactly what Marva Collins does day in and day out in school. 她看到存在的潜力
She seed the potential that is there; 她不是发明家
she's not even inventing something. 没有脱离现实
She's not detached from reality. 是人们看不到他人身上的潜力
It's rather the people who don't see the potential in other people 也看不到自己身上的潜力 我们会讨论到
as well as in themselves as we'll discuss. 他们没有看到整个现实
They are not seeing the full reality. 只看到一部分
They are only seeing part of it. 完全无视车上的孩子们
They are completely missing the children on the bus. 我们知道无视一部分现实是多么容易
And we know how easy it is to miss part of reality, 就算他们就在我们眼前
even they are right in front of our very eyes. 经常需要被问及
Or it often takes a question-- 问及我们之前忽略了什么
it takes on the quest and we miss what we have seen before, 不论是对风险人口的研究
whether it was research with at-risk population, 或者是人口结构
whether it was the geometric shapes, 或者只是对我们的
whether it was asking only the negative questions 人际关系和自己提出负面问题
about our relationship or about ourselves, 或者没有看到
or whether it's not seeing the potential 每个孩子身上都有的潜力
that exist in just about all kids. 如果我们看到它
If only we see it. 只要我们看到它
And if we see it, 欣赏它 灌溉它
appreciate it, we water it, 播撒阳光
we shed a light to it, 它就会感恩 成长
and it appreciates, it grows. Rosenthal做的只是将他们注意力
So what Rosenthal did was simply shift their attention to something 转移到一直在那里的东西上
that was there all along. 在工作场所也是如此
Same in the workplace. 几百几千次地重复着
Replicated hundreds, thousands of times-- 皮格马利翁效应
the Pygmalion effect. 曾在一个工作场所里重演过
It was replicated in a workplace 主管或经理被告知 这些是
where leaders are told or managers are told "these are your top, 极有潜力的员工
highest potential employees". 那些员工也是随机挑出的
And these employees, again, randomly picked, 但真的变成最有潜力的员工
actually became the highest potential employees. 并取得更大成功
And they succeeded much more. 他们的保持力增加 工作表现出色
Retention went up for them; performance went up; 在公司更有可能被升职
they were more likely to advance in their organization 并留在公司里
and stay in their organization. 这都只是期望产生的结果
Just as result of expectation. 角色调换后结结果一样
The source of works of the other way, Jamison在1997年做了一项很有趣的研究
Jamison, back in 1997, this fascinating study, 她想知道角色调换后是否有相同结果
where what she said was let's see if it works the other way. 她去到由同一名老师负责的两个班
So she went to two classes that were taught by the same teacher, 开始上课之前
and before the classes were started, 只告诉一个班
told just one of the classes 这位老师受到
that this teacher was ranked extremely highly 从前学生的极大好评
by other students before, 他们作为心理学家
that they, as professional psychologists rated 给这名老师极高的评价
that teacher as extremely high. 然后他们离开两个班
And they left them. 学年结束时 情况如何？
What happened by the end of the year? 首先 干预组给这名老师的评价
First of all, the teacher was rated higher 高于对照组
by the intervention group than by the control group. 而且学生对课业
But also, the students put in actually more time 付出更多时间 成绩比对照组好
into the class and they outperformed the control group. 因为他们相信
Because they believed-- 他们被欺骗相信
they were made to believe that 这位老师的水平比实际情况高
the teacher was better that supposedly he/she were. 换言之 学生看到老师身上的潜力
In other words, they saw the potent6ial in the teacher. 学生们表现得…与老师无关
They performed-- not only the teacher; 老师没有更好的表现
the teacher did perform better-- 但学生表现得更好了
but the students actually performed better 当他们有更高的期望时
when they had high expectations, 当他们相信自己的老师时
when they believed in their teachers. 如果各位想学好1504这门课
So if you want to do well in 1504-- 你们知道该怎么做了 是吗？
you'll know what you need to do, right? 真得管用 信念即自我完成预言
It works-- beliefs as self-fulfilling prophecies. 我们创造我们的现实 歌德说过
We create our reality. Goethe, "人是怎样便怎样待他 他便还是那样的人
"Treat a man as he is and he will remain as he is. 一个人能够或应该怎样便怎样待他
Treat a man as he can and should be, 他便会成为能够怎样或是应当怎样的人"
and he shall become as he can and  should be." 现在我想谈一个相关话题
I want to move on now to a related topic, 它对心理学家很重要
one that is very important for psychologist 对生活应用也很重要
but also for you to apply in your life. 那就是我们创造的情境
And that is the importance of situation we create 或为我们创造的情境的重要性
or that is created for us. 在很多方面 心理学家
In many ways, psychologist-- 肯定地说是社会心理学家
social psychologist for sure-- 都会被在情境之下完成的
was sponged by a series of research 一系列研究所影响
that was done on the power of the situation, 但多数是消极的情境
but it was mostly the negative power of the situation. 修读或没修读过初级心理学的
Those of you taken psych 1, those of you haven't, 可能都听说过"阿施从众心理实验"
may have heard of the "Asch Conformity Experiment", 个体对群体存在从众现象
where people conformed to the idea of the group. 很多同学可能听说过
Or many of you probably heard Milgram的"权力服从"
of Milgram's "The obedience to authority". 如果没听说过
If you haven't heard about them, 我不会在这里深入介绍
I am not going to go in depth here, 阅读了解一下 去网上找一下
read about it. Just Google it. 两者都是心理学领域
Some of the most important fascinating studies 最精彩的研究 在街上随便找个人
in the field of psychology where a person off the street 在实验者的指示去电击另一个人
was told by an experimenter to shock another person, 甚至电击到另一个人尖叫恳求停止
even to the point where the other person is screaming to stop. 因为实验者说实验必须进行下去
And because the experimenters were saying the experiment must go on 而且实验者经常穿着一件白大褂
and very often had a white cloak like doctors or experimenters-- 就像医生或者实验者
a cloak around them. 因为他们说实验必须进行下去
Because they said the experiment must go on, 经常的 人们会
very often, people went-- 多数人 美国人都会继续电击那个人
most people, Americans went on and shocked that person, 甚至电击到另一个人哭泣
even to the point of the other person whimpering 恳求放他出去
and begging to be let out, 仅仅是因为那一句
simply because of the word, "实验必须进行下去"
"the experiment must go on". 情境的力量 对权力的服从
The power of the situation, obedience to authority-- 这项研究的目的是为了证明
this was done in order to show how something like the Holocaust 为什么大屠杀只发生在德国
could only happen in Germany; 那里的人更容易服从权力
how people are more likely to be obedient to authority 他们发现全世界的人
and what they found globally, worldwide, 都倾向服从权力
people have the tendency to be obedient to authority, 不论是在美国还是德国
whether it was in United States or in Germany. 全世界都是如何
Around the world. 如出一辙 情境的力量
Same replicated. The power of the situation. Philip Zimbardo的监狱实验
Philip Zimbardo's Prison Experiment. 在斯坦福进行 他们做的是
This was done at Stanford, where they did was taking-- 没读过的找来读
again, read about it if you haven't; 我不会深入介绍
I am not going to go in depth here-- 他们从街上随便找来一些人
where they took people off the street 分别扮演典狱长
and had them play the role of either the prison warden, 狱警和犯人
the guard or the prisoner. 这项实验预计进行两周
And the experiment was supposed to go on for two weeks 证明进入角色的效果
to show what entering a role does. 一周后 他们发现
And what they found was after a week, 实验必须终止
the experiment had to be stopped. 因为随意找来的 随机分配的典狱长们
Because the wardens-- people off the street, randomly divided- 变得非常残暴
were becoming so oppressive. 他们侮辱犯人
They humiliated the prisoners 进入犯人角色的人受到侮辱
who got into their position of being humiliated, 就像犯人经常感受到的侮辱
just like prisoners often felt. 这解释了Abu Ghraib监狱丑闻
This explains Abu Ghraib. 时事现象
You know, current phenomenon-- 伊拉克战俘的遭遇
what happened in the Iraqi prisons, 随便一个人一旦进入角色
of how people off the street enter the role-- 他们进入得太深
they entered the role so much Zimbardo不得不在一周后终止实验
that Zimbardo had to stop the experiment after one week. 可以去视频网站上看到
Go on YouTube and watch the video about this mind-boggling stuff. 这是很重要的
So this is only important, 知道很好 知道很重要 但不够
good to know,important to know, but not enough. 因为情境如此强大
Because the situation is so powerful, 为什么只强调消极的东西？
why just emphasize the negative? 为什么不创造积极的环境
Why not think about creating positive situations 让我们获得更快乐更讲道德的生活?
that will help us lead happier, more moral lives? 正像很多积极心理方法一样
And this has, just like a lot of positive psychological approaches, 被21比1的比率忽视
has been ignored with a ratio 21 to 1. 我要和大家分享这个领域的两项研究
So let me share with you just a couple of studies in this area. 两项研究都由本校的Ellen Langer完成
Both of them done by our very own Ellen Langer. 顺便说一句 我现在要讲到的这项研究
This, by the way, is the study that I am going to share now 是即将推出的Langer教授记录片的主干
is going to be backbone of a movie coming out about Professor Langer-- 扮演Ellen Langer的演员 Langer是
the person who's going to play Ellen Langer-- 心理学系的第一位女性终身教授
she's the first female tenure professor in the psychology department 扮演Ellen Langer的是詹妮弗安妮斯顿
the person who's going to play Ellen Langer is Jennifer Aniston. 电影有望在一年后上映
And the movie is coming out, hopefully in a year, 但电影讲的是我要谈到的这项实验
but it's about the experiment that I am going to share with you now. 实验在1979年进行
So this was done in 1979. Langer的实验是
Here was what Langer did. 她找来
What she did was take men 75岁以上的男人 把他们送去一座别墅
who were above 75 years old and sent them to a retreat, 那是间以1959为主题的别墅
which was a 1959 retreat, meaning-- 虽然实验在1979年进行
even though it was 1979-- 音乐来自1959年
the music was from 1959, 他们读的杂志都是1959年前后的
the magazines that they read that were all around were 1959, 日报是1959年的
the daily newspapers were 1959-- 所有的一切都是1959年的
everything was 1959. 就算他们要进入角色
Even they had to go into a role, 和Zimbardo的实验一样
just like in Zimbardo, 要扮演1959年时的角色 仿佛年轻了20岁
they had to play their role of 1959 as if they were 20 years younger. 这是个心理学实验
Now of course, it was a psychological experiment, 在实验前后进行各种测量
they had all these different measures, taken before/after. 他们发现
And here is what they found. 在别墅待了一周
One week. Retreat. 在一周结束时
At the end of the week, 在一周结束时
At the end of the week, 心理和生理年纪都减小了
both mental and biological age decreased. 比如 他们在各项测试中变得更灵活
For example, they became more flexible in tests. 他们变得更强壮 他们手掌 双腿
They became stronger-- their grasp, their legs, 身体都变得更强壮
their bodies became stronger. 他们的记忆力有明显改善
Their memory improved significantly, 他们的智力水平
so their intelligence level as taking 在实验前后进行测试 再与对照组相比
by tests before and after compared to control group 在仅仅一周后就有明显改进
improved significantly after a single week. 她测量指骨间的距离
She measured the distance between the bones in the finger, 人越老 骨骼间空隙变得越小
because when we get older, the space becomes smaller-- 指骨变得更紧
they become tighter. 一周后 他们的手指变长
The length after a week, increased in their fingers. 他们变得更快乐
They became happier. 变得更加自立
They became more self-sufficient, 更少依懒他们 不论是他们自己
less dependent on other people as rated by themselves 还是家庭成员的评估都是如此
and as rated by their family members. 他们变得更健康
They became healthier. 他们的视力和听觉有明显改善
Their eyesight and hearing improved significantly 在短短一周时间内
in as little as a week. 就是因为他们进入了强大的积极的情境
Just because they entered a powerful, positive situation, 与在外面世界遭遇的
which goes against a lot of the stereotypes 典型情况和偏见不同
and prejudices that they encountered in the outside world. 仅仅通过"扮演"某个角色
So just by "acting" a certain role, 他们变成那个角色 正如Zimbardo的犯人
they became that role just like Zimbardo's prisoners 在短短一周内真的变成犯人
became their role in as little as a week. 她的另一项研究
Another study that she did-- 她在书中有叙述
and this is a report in her book, 《念》 我强烈推荐这本书
"Mindfulness", which I highly recommend. 她测量人们的视力
She took in and tested people's eyesight. 给他们一幅普通的视力表
And she gave them a normal eyesight chart, 测量他们的视力 记录结果
measured them, wrote down their performance. 然后她把让同一群人
And then she took the exact same people-- 这次让他们穿上飞行服
this time, put them in a pilot overalls 同时让他们坐进飞行模拟器
and at the same time put them in a flight simulator 然后给他们看完全相同的视力表
and showed them the exact same the eye chart. 相同的距离 相同的视力表
Same distance, same eye chart, 唯一的不同是 他们坐在
the only difference being they're sitting in a flight simulator 飞行模拟器里 穿着飞行服
and they were wearing pilot overalls. 他们坐在那里看视力表
They were sitting there, looking at the eye chart. 然后她又进行了一次视力测试
And again, she ran the eye test. 40%的参与者的视力有明显改善
40% of participants eyesight improved significantly, 仅仅是在改变情境的情况下
as a result of just changing the situation. 相同的距离 相同的表 什么都一样
Same distance, same chart, same everything. 只是情境不同
Different situation. 问题是我们如何创造积极情境
The question is how do we create a positive situation. 如何创造一个利用角色自我改进的情境
How can we create a situation that improves us with the role. 我想介绍两个研究
And I want to share with you couple of studies-- 先说第一个再说第二个 关于环境
I'll share one study and then another later-- about the environment. 首先是Barge的研究
First of all, the work of Barge, 影射分为潜意识和有意识影射
priming is when we have subconscious or conscious priming. 比如你看着一个屏幕
For example, you are looking at a screen 在几毫秒内闪过一个词
and for just a few milliseconds, a word appears. 这个词让你有了准备
And the word primes you. 有很多关于如何利用
There is a lot of research on 典型消极情况进行影射的研究 比如
how we can prime your negatively with stereotypes for example, 使用偏见
with prejudices. 或者积极的 但对积极影射的研究不够
Or positively-- but not enough from positively. Barge做了下面的实验
So here's a story done by Barge. 他用与"老"有关的词影射人
He primed people with words associated with old. 比如"老"这个词
So for example, word such as old, "拐杖"
word such as stick, "佛罗里达"
word such as Florida-- 他用这个词影射人们
that's one of the words he primed people with. 他用与老有关的词影射人们
So he primed people with "old" words. 然后他对比他们和对照组的
And then he had them take a comparative and control group 智力和记忆力测试结果
an intelligence test and a memory test. 用与"老"相关的词影射过的人的记忆力
The memory of the people who were primed with "old" words. 他们的表现比对照组差
They performed the worst than the control group. 第二 他观察这些人
Second, he looked at these people 记录他们从实验地点
and measured how fast they walk from 走到电梯的时间
where their experiment was to the elevator. 还找来盲测员
And also had blind evaluators-- 那些不了解情况的人
people who didn't know which condition they were in, 评估他们的走路
evaluate how they were walking. 用"老"影射过的人行走起来
So the people who were primed with old actually walked 真得比其他人更弯腰驼背
more stoop than the other people. 走向电梯的速度明显慢
And they walk significantly slower toward the elevator, 虽然不知道自己被与"老"相关的字影射过
not knowing that they were primed with old words. 但他们走向电梯的速度
They walk slower toward the elevator., 比没有受到影响的人慢
then the people who were not primed with these old words, 完全是潜意识的
subconscious completely. 然后他们用与"成就"相关的词
And then they did something priming people with words 影射人们
related to an achievement. 受到影射的人
The people who were primed, 用与"成就"有关的词进行潜意识影射的人
subconsciously with words related to achievement, 测试结果比对照组好
did better on tests than control group. 他们的记忆力得到改进
Their memory improved, 面对困难任务时更有持久力
and they persisted more on difficult tasks. 问题是…下次课我会谈到的是
And the question is-- the thing we'll talk about next time-- 如何创造有意识的
is how can we create consciously 和潜意识的积极环境
and subconsciously a positive environment 让我们带出最有道德
where we actually can take out the most moral, 最成功的自我 并且去欣赏那个自我
most successful self, to appreciate that self, 帮助环境带出最杰出的自己
to help the environment bring out the best in us. 下堂课见
Next time. 



 Chapter 5: 乐观主义


希望各位度过了个愉快的周末
Hope you had a wonderful long weekend. 好了 直入主题
So,let's jump right into it. 上回说到哪儿了
So where did we leave last time? 上回我们谈了环境的力量
Last time we talked about the power of the situation, 谈到了信念是如何成为自我实现的预言
we talk about how beliefs become self -fulfilling prophesies. 以及我们是如何通过环境
And how it is through the situation 对他人产生期望及信念
that we very often create expectations,believes of people. 这些信念会变成现实
And these believes become reality. 还谈到了为什么说社会心理学本质上是从
And we talked about how social psychology essentially started 某些重要的实验开始的 比如米尔格伦实验
with some very important experiment such as the Milgrim effect, 又称权利服从研究
or obedience to authority. 比如津巴多的监狱实验
Such as Zimbardo's prison experiment, 试验中 囚犯被关在...
where prisoners were put in or played... 学生扮演囚犯及看守的角色
students play the role of prisoners or the role of wardens 完全进入了角色 以至于
and they actually entered that role so totally 一周后实验被迫中止
that after a week the experiment had to be stop, 而原计划是要进行两周
when it was suppose to go on for two weeks. 接着我们提出了一个问题
And then the question we asked was, 既然环境的力量如此巨大
OK,so we know that the situation is powerful. 能使人改变
We know that it makes a difference. 那能否创造出一种强大但积极的环境
Can we also create a powerful, 将人的最佳状态充分调动起来?
positive situation to bring out the best in people? 答案是肯定的
And the answer is yes. 我们对此做了深入分析 并谈到了
And we started talking about it and we talk about professor Langer教授以及她的研究
Langer and her research and how she show that putting 她让一群老人置身于仿20年前的环境中
um...elderly men in an environment where they were actually 要求他们装作回到20年前的生活
or where they acted as if they were 20 years younger 这些老人竟然变得年轻了
actually became younger. 他们的智力水平提高了
To the point of having higher levels of intelligence. 记忆力提升了
To the point of improving their memory. 视力听力也改善了
Improving their eyesight,improving their hearing. 手指骨骼间的距离变长了
The distance between the bones in their fingers actually 这是年轻的迹象
became longer which is a sign of younger age. 他们自评及互评都认为
They were rated by others as well as by themselves 自己更健康 更年轻了
as stronger and younger just because they acted as if 就因为他们装作自己处在1959年
it was 1959 instead of what it was really was, 而不是1979年 这就是积极环境的力量
which was 1979. The power of the positive situation. 她还进行了另一项实验
And then she did another more research on 对象要进行视力检查
people going for an eyesight test, 他们被安排在了飞行模拟器里
and put them in a situation in a flight simulator. 做完全一样的视力检查
And the exact same eyesight test, 因为环境的不同 测试结果竟然提高了
they actually performed better just because of the situation. 然后我们接着继续讲 上回结束的地方就是
And we moved on that what we ended last time 分析影射 影射是...
by talking about priming. Priming is... 可以从意识及潜意识两个层面进行
can be done in the conscious or subconscious level. 是指在我们的意识或潜意识中植入
It means planting a seed,planting a belief,planting a word, 一粒种子 一种信念 一个词或一幅画面
or a picture in our mind,consciously or subconsciously. 以及如何对我们行为产生影响
And how that actually influences our behavior. Bargh在纽约大学时
So Bargh,that time of NYU, 进行过一项研究 他用"年老"的相关词
did the research where he primed to people 影射实验对象
with words associated with old. 如果你们还记得 这些词包括皱纹
Words if you remember such as wrinkles, 年老 佛罗里达
words such as old,words such as Florida. 这种影射导致的结果是
And as a result of this priming, 实验参与者走路更慢了
those participants in the study actually walked slower, 更佝偻了
or actually were more stooped. 研究者进行评估时
When evaluated by researchers 并不知道每个对象的实验条件
who were not aware of their condition,meaning they didn't know 也就是说不清楚他们是被影射了对照词
whether they were primed with control words, 随机词 还是年老相关词
just random words,or with words associated with old. 所以通过影射 人们的行为
So it was just through the priming that people actually 的确会发生改变
started to behave differently. 环境的力量 外界的力量
The power of the situation. The power of the environment. 然后Bargh将实验更进了一步
And then Bargh took it step further and said, 决定用使用积极的影射 比如成就
OK,let's prime the with positive primes such as achievement, 毅力 成功
such as persistence,such as success. 比如这些词
These words,for example, 成就的近义词
they had to find a synonym for the word achievement. 实验对象被影射这些词后
Those who are primed with these words on intelligence test 智力及记忆力测试的成绩
and on memory test actually performed better 比没有影射的对照组好
than the control group who wasn't primed with these words. 两位荷兰研究人员Dijksterhuis和Knippensberg
Two Dutch researchers - Dijksterhuis & Knippensberg, 也进行了影射实验 他们找了一批人
what they found was that they brought people, 请他们为下一次实验进行描述
and they ask them to describe for future experiment, 不是本次实验
not for that experiment. 让他们为下一次实验
For a future experiment,ask them to describe 描述三种原型的典型日常行为及其性格:
the typical day or typical characteristics of three archetypes - 足球流氓 秘书及教授
a soccer hooligan,a secretary and a professor. 描述这三种原型
Describe these three archetypes. 他们被告知 这是为下次实验做准备
And they told them this is for the next experiment 需要这三种原型的描述
where we just want people to evaluate these archetypes. 但他们不知道的是 通过对原型进行描述
Not knowing that actually by describing these archetypes, 自己已经被影射了
these individuals were primed. 他们分别被影射为足球流氓 秘书
They were primed for a soccer hooligan,for a secretary, 或教授
or for a professor. 影射后 他们接受了智力测试
And then they have to do intelligence tests afterwards, 及记忆力测试
memory test after those primes. 描述足球流氓日常行为的人
Those who had to describe the day of soccer hooligan 表现得最糟
performed the worse. 无论是记忆力还是智力
In terms of memory. In term of intelligence. 然后是描述秘书的人
Then there was the secretary and those who performed the best 表现最好的 是描述教授的人
were those who described the professor. 而他们之前并没有更努力学习
Now they didn't study any harder before. 什么也没有改变 除了发生了影射
Nothing changed except for the fact that there was a prime,that 环境中有东西植入了他们的思想
there was something planted from the environment in their minds. 现在的问题是
The question then is, 我们如何为自己创造一个积极的环境
how can we create a positive environment for ourselves, 让自己受到积极的影射 变得更幸福
where we are primed by the positive,where we can be happier, 更成功等等
more successful and so on. 方法有很多
And there's many ways in which we can do it. 我跟大家分享几个
Let me share a few. 其实这将是你们这周的作业之一
In fact there's going to be your assignment for this week, 即创造一个积极的环境
or one of the assignments to create a positive environment. 举几个例子
So you are some of the examples. 找一些你爱的人或地方的照片
Have pictures of people you love or places you love,the 这些东西很重要 因为即使你不看它们
importance of these things is that even if you don't see them, 潜意识中还意识到它们的存在
you see them. So on the subconscious level it's still there. 虽然只是在潜意识层面
Even though on the subconscious level, 人们被影射时 看不见...那些词
when people are primed,they don't really see...the word, 比如"成就"这个词出现在屏幕上25毫秒
say achievement on the screen,when it's there for 25 mini-second, 根本不可能看清 但大脑却记录了下来
they don't really see it,but it registers. 所以即使你挂了照片但没去看它
So even if a picture is there and you don't "really" see it 或没意识到它 念到它
or not really conscious of it,mindful of it, 它仍然会对你造成影响
it still has a impact on you. 所以找些你爱的人的照片
So have pictures of people you love, 让你开心的东西 无论是纪念品
have pleasant object,whether it's memorabilia, 鲜花 艺术品 你最喜欢的艺术品
whether it's flowers,whether it's art,your favorite art. 我家中和办公室都挂了
So I have in my house,and my office, 我最爱的画 由我最爱的艺术家创作
my favorite art on the wall,by my favorite artists. 让我跟你们分享一下
And let me share with you a few. 我今天带到课堂上来了 它们价值连城
I actually brought them here. These are very valuable. 我给它们投了保 所以不用担心 瞧
I insured them,so it's not a problem. So... so this is,um, 这位画家处在艺术生涯第一阶段时的作品
this specific artist from the first phase of his career, 如你所见 充满了有力的线条
as you can see,you know,very powerful strokes, 非常强烈 非常从容 真是绝了
very intense,very deliberate,and just gorgeous. 另外一幅
And here is, 仍是那位画家 进入艺术生涯第二阶段
by the same artist from the second phase of his career. 印象派对他作品的影响已经清晰可辨了
Here you already begin to see impressionist influence 不过你仍能从中看出同样的特点
on his work. But still,you know you see the same trait, 同样的力量 同样强烈的情感
the same power,the same intensity. 这些都挂在我家墙上
So I have these on my wall. 我还想向你们介绍一位画坛新秀
There's a new and upcoming artist who I want to introduce you to. 她还没进入第二阶段
She still doesn't have a second phase, 因为她才一岁大
you know,she's only one year's old. 这幅画是在她妈妈帮助下完成的
But,you know,this is a work done with the help of her Mom. 但是我还是挂在墙上 每天提醒我
But again,these are on my wall and they remind me everyday 虽然我已经看过几百次了
even I've seen them hundreds of time, 但还是挂着 让我想起我的孩子们
it's still there and I think about my kids. 我挂了些其他的...
And I also have other,you know, 名气不比他们的画家作品
less known artists' work on my wall. 你们可能没听过这画
Again,this is,probably not heard of this one, 这是罗丹的《沉思者》
um,this is Rodin,The Thinker. 也挂在我的墙上 是我最喜欢的雕塑
And,so I have this on my wall,it's my favorite sculpture. 还有罗丹的另一幅作品
And then I have another piece by Rodin just to remind me 提醒我生活不仅要沉思 还有其他的
that it's not all about thinking,there are other things 让生活更美好
that make life make life worth living. 这是罗丹的《吻》
So this is Rodin's The Kiss,for those of you who know it. 所以找些东西挂在墙上
And again have these things on your wall 创造一种让你觉得温暖
create(s) the environment where you feel warm, 觉得开心的环境
where it's fun for you to be there. 名人名言 我喜欢名人名言
Quotes,you know I love quotes, 你们很多人肯定也喜欢
and I know that many of you love quotes. 已经有人把他们最喜欢的名言发我了
Some of you have sent me your favorite quotes. 我墙上也有一列名言
I have on my wall a list of quotes and they are there 就算我没看它们 也能感受到
even if I don't see them,I see them. 比如 让我看看有没有带来
So for example,let's see if I brought some here. 好 在这里呢
Yes,here they are. 这句说亚当斯总统说的
So one is by John Quincy Adams. "耐心和坚持总能奇迹般地
"Patience and perseverance have a magical effect before 扫除困难和障碍"
which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish". 将"坚持"用于影射
So priming the issue of persistence, 插一句 Bargh的实验也囊括了这个词
by the way which is one thing that Bargh did it. 受到影射的人的确变得更坚韧不拔
He primed that and people actually became more persistent. 乔治.艾略特 原名玛丽.安妮.艾凡斯
George Eliot,or also known as Mary Anne Evens, 我最喜欢的作家 她写过"推动
my favorite author. She wrote," The important work of moving 人类进步的重任 不能等待完人来完成"
the world forward does not wait to be done by perfect men". 大约三周后 我会讲到完美主义
I'll talk about perfectionism which is a very important, 对我个人来说是非常重要的私人话题
very personal thing for me in about three weeks. 可以说她是我的榜样
So she is a very much a role model. 加缪说过"在深冬里 我终于发现在
Camus,"In the depth of winter,I finally learned 心里有个不败的夏天"
that there was within me an invincible summer". 这句话帮助我走过了艰难困苦
A quote that has helped me through difficult,through hard times. 亨利.戴维.梭罗
Henry David Thoreau, "如果一个人能昂首挺胸地朝着梦想前进
"If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, 努力实现他想象的生活
and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, 他会与成功不期而遇"
he will meet with success,unexpected in common hours ". 同样地 我都挂在了墙上 还有其他的
Again,I have these quotes up on my wall,and a few others, 其中许多名言你们都在课上读到过了
that many of the quotes that you've seen in the course. 它们不断影射我 提醒我
And they prime me,they remind me, 为我创造出积极的环境
they create the environment for me. 我们会在下一节讨论艺术及其重要性
We'll talk about art in the next section,and its importance. 把喜欢的书放在手边 听听音乐
Have you favorite books next to you. Listen to music, 要集中注意听
but listen to it mindfully, 不要只当背景音乐 要让音乐激发你
not just as background music but the music that inspires you, 无论是摇滚 还是痞子阿姆 都可以
whether it's rocky,whether it's Eminem,whoever it is. 多看看激励你的电影
Watch films that inspire you, 这些东西能帮你创造积极的环境
all these things help you to create an environment 有助于成长 获得成功与产生幸福感
that is conducive to growth,to success,to well being. 其中大部分都是在潜意识层面上进行的
A lot of this is done on the subconscious level 这就是影射的力量 对于影射的研究
which is the power of the priming. A priming studies. 这也是积极研究的意义
And finally this is what positive research is about. 如果我们总是关注"消极"研究 焦虑
If we constantly focus on "negative" research,anxiety, 压抑 精神分裂症 就会被这些研究影射
depression,schizophrenia,we are primed by this research, 被这些工作影射 创造出现实
we are primed by this work. And it creates reality. 你们有些人可能知道
You know,this indirectly and conjunctionally relates to, 这与冰山理论有这千丝万缕的联系
some of you may know,the Isenberg principle, 即当你度量某种现象时
is that when you measure a phenomenon, 就是在改变这种现象
you are changing the phenomenon; 当你度量某种现象时
when you are measuring a phenomenon, 也是在改变自己
you are also changing yourself. 所以通过研究积极环境 我们也是在
So by researching the positive we are also priming ourselves 对自己影射积极的东西
with the positive. 今天包括下周 我谈到的很多内容
Now,a lot of this work that I'm talking about today and I'll talk 其实都是源于自助运动
about next time actually comes from the self-help movement. 自助运动确立于20世纪
In many ways the self-help movement was founded, 并从各个方面展开
was started in the 20th century... 其理论基础为我们通过思考创建了世界
was started with the understanding that we create the world 我们的思维创建了时间
through our thinking,that our mind creates the world. 1930年代相关书籍开始出版
And books like these came out,back in the 1930's, 比如《思考致富》
Thinking Grow Rich. 从30年代至今销售超过6千万本
This book since 1930's sold over 60 million copies. 而且仍不断再版
It's still selling. 至今还是畅销书 不论在美国
It's selling,it's the best seller in the US, 中国 印度
it's the best seller in China,in India, 非洲还是欧洲
it's the best seller in Africa,it's the best seller in Europe. 它对人们产生了巨大影响
It has an impact on people and here's one of the things 作者Napoleon Hill这样说过
that Napoleon Hill says, "只要你想得到 只要你相信 你就能够做到"
"Whatever your mind can conceive and believe,it can achieve." 只要你想得到 只要你相信 你就能够做到
Whatever your mind can conceive and believe,it can achieve. 非常鼓舞人心
Very empowering. 对各类人群 对大众产生了很多影响
And this had an impact on many different people,on the masses, 6千万本销量 史上最畅销书籍
again,60 million copies,one of the best sellers in history. Henry Ford也发表过类似的看法
Henry Ford had a similar idea, "不论你认为自己行还是不行 你都是对的"
"Whether you think you can or can't,you are right." 许多人都这一理念吸引 为什么
And people were drawn to this message. Why? 因为它鼓舞人心
Because it's empowering, 让他们觉得没有什么不可能的
because it makes them feel that things are possible. 另一本极具影响力的书
Another very influential book, Norman Vincent Peale的《正面思考的力量》
The Power of Positive Thinking,Norman Vincent Peale. "要有美好的希望 并全力以赴去追求
"Have great hopes and dare to go all out for them. 要有远大的梦想 并全力以赴去实现
Have great dreams and dare to live them. 要有宏伟的期望 并深信不疑"
Have tremendous expectations and believe in them." 多么让人为之一振啊
How inspiring for people to hear that, 只要你思考
all you need to do is think, 只要你相信 就会获得富足
all you need to do is believe,and affluence will come to you. 无论是精神的富足
Whether it's intrapersonal affluence, 还是物质的富足
whether it's monetary affluence. 这一理念对大众一直有着巨大吸引力
And this is been the message that has drawn the masses 时至今日仍是如此
and continues to do so today. 当今最畅销的励志书
The best selling book today, 全球销量第一 没错 《秘密》
No.1 best seller all over the world,that's right,The Secret. 成功的秘密就是 所谓的"吸引力法则"
The secret to success is,what they call,the law of attraction. 即 你的生活是被你吸引过来的
The law of attraction is that you attract to your life 无论你想象什么 无论你相信什么
whatever you imaging,whatever you believe it. 有一条强大的讯息
Again,a powerful message, 本书已经卖出了几百万本
millions and millions of copies of this book being sold. 就在我们说话当口 仍在热卖
As we speak,continue to be sold. 而它传达的讯息其实很简单:相信就会成功
And the message is again simple: believe,and you will achieve; 构想就会实现
conceive,and it will be conceived. 在现实中就会实现
In reality,in the world,it will come to you. 让人信服 鼓舞人心
Very convincing,very inspiring message. 但是 这条讯息正确吗
But,is this message right? 这我们讨论过 还有Roger Bannister的故事
Well,we talked about this and we saw the Roger Bannister story. 他在4分钟 准确说是3'59跑完了1英里
You know one day,or six weeks after Roger Bannister runs 6周后John Landy将这一成绩缩短到3'57.9
a mile in 4 minutes,or in 3'59,John Landy runs it in 3'57.9. 一年后37名运动员都能跑到4分内了
The year after 37 runners run the mile in under 4 minutes. 其中有一定奥妙
So there is something to it. 一但他们相信能办到 就有可能实现
Once they believed it was possible,it became possible. 但问题是
And here is the issue, 当今的心理自助运动的发展趋势
with much of what's going on in the self-help today, 当今的自助领域强调某个真相
self-help realm today,it draws on a truth, 将这个真相过分鼓吹
a real truth and then blows it out of proportion. 没错
So yes, 某种意义上我们的精神的确能创造现实
there is some truth in the fact that our mind creates reality. 但是这不是全部
But that's only part of the truth. 我们创造了现实 或者说是共同创造
We create reality or rather we co-create reality. 还会受到外界或者内在的某些影响
There has to be something out there or in there, 比如《秘密》
for example,when it comes to The Secret. 如果你相信自己可能会成功
If you believe that you are likely to succeed, 那成功的可能性会变大
you are much more likely to succeed. 但离不开刻苦勤奋与坚持不懈
But that has to come with a lot of hard work and persistence, 而且失败避免不了
it has to come with a lot of failure, 你要从失败中学习
and learning from that failure. 所以这只是等式的一半 而这些自助书籍
So it's just half of the equation and what these self-help books 传达的讯息往往言过其实 效果甚微
and messages do is overpromise and under-deliver, 甚至可能会造成毁灭性后果
which at times can be destructive. 比如 如果一切皆建立于吸引力法则上
For example,if everything is based on the law of attraction. 我创造了一切
I created everything that 一切都因我而变 一切都是我的错
everything is up to me and also everything is my fault. 举个极端点的例子
Even taking to the extreme, 如果3岁小女孩被虐待 那是她的责任吗
is a 3 years old girl responsible for being abused? 30岁的男子被酒醉驾车的司机撞成瘫痪
Is a 30 years old man responsible for being paralyzed 是他自己的责任吗
as a result of an accident by a drunken driver? 有些事情是我们无法控制的
There are certain things that are out there 所以一切因我而变
and when we say that everything is up to us, 一切都由吸引力法则决定
everything is created by the law of attraction, 这种说法短期内可能能让你
then it's a prescription maybe in the short term for inspiration 坚定信念 获得幸福感 但是长期来看
and for belief and for wellbeing,but in the long term, 只会让人感到挫败 内疚 不快乐
it's for frustration,for guilt,and for unhappiness. 离成功越来越远
And also for less success 因为如果我真的相信一切都由思考决定
because if I really believe that it's all about thinking, 这种想法就会成为我的心态习惯
then this is going to be my mind set. 只要有信心
All I need to do is believe and then 钱就会滚滚而来
all the money will come to me. 爱情就会降临于我
All the success in a relationship will come to me. 这抹杀了勤奋工作...
And that does away with the hard work, 坚韧不拔以及失败的作用
with the persistence,with the failure that is necessary, 它们也是成功 幸福 完满人生的必要组成部分
part and parcel of a successful,happy,fulfilling,human life. 我给大家放一段短片
I want to show you a quick video. 是我在网上看到的一段广告
This is of an ad I saw online and I actually called the 于是我向苏格兰皇家银行索要了原版
Royal Bank on Scotland and asked them to send me the original. 因为它抓住了当今人们对精神力量的
Because it captures some of the misunderstanding 某种误解
that there is today about the power of the mind. 很诙谐的一则广告
Just a very cute ad. Douglas 也是参加会议的
Douglas from the conference. - James Aderson - 你好
- James Aderson. - Oh,yeah. 这儿风景真不错
That's a lot of green. 那是什么鸟？
What kind of bird is it? - 怎么回事 - 不知道
- What's that?   - I don't know. 没事的 各位 我上过一门课程
It's ok guys! I've done a course. - 什么? - 正面思考
-What? -Positive thinking. 正面的思考会产生正面的影响
Positive thought makes a positive impact. 明白不 正面的思考会产生正面的影响
OK? Positive thought has a positive impact. 看着我 没事的 来
Look at me. That's right. Okay,come on. (紧急启动)
(Emergency Start) 语言不能代替行动
Talk is no substitute for action. 这就是思想的力量
That's the power. 创造现实 苏格兰皇家银行集团
Make it happen. The Royal Bank of Scotland Group. - 我真厉害 - 真的耶
- I am good. - Yes,you are. 它抓住了部分真相 但不是全部
It captures part of the truth but not the whole truth. 我们看看严肃研究
So let's see what serious research 对精神力量的解释
has to say about the power of the mind. 一种神奇的现象
A real phenomenon,actual phenomenon,but one 但还是需要通过实验来研究其原理
that we need to also apply real research to see what works. Albert Bandura 你们本周的阅读任务
Albert Bandura,on your reading about for this week, 做了许多关于自我效能的研究
has done a lot of work on the concept of self-efficacy 本质上是自信的学术术语
which is essentially the academic term for believing in oneself. 以下是他进行几十年研究后的结论
And here is what he writes after decades and decades of research. 去年他获得了授予积极心理学家的
He by the way won the researcher's prize for 研究者奖项
the positive psychologists last year 进行了很多这方面的研究 他是斯坦福大学的教授
so he's doing a lot of research in this area. He's from Stanford. "自我效能感影响人们生活选择
"Beliefs in personal efficacy affect life choices, 动机水平 机能的质量 对逆境的适应力
level of motivation,quality of functioning,resilience to 对压力和沮丧的抵抗力
adversity and vulnerability to stress and depression." 相信自己的人 充满信心
Those you believe in themselves,who have confidence, 在生活的不同领域都表现出色 他还指出
do well across the different areas in their lives,He continues, 认为自己高效能者
"People who regard themselves as highly efficacious act,think, 与认为自己无用者
and feel differently from those who perceive themselves 想法感觉完全不同
as inefficacious. 他们创造自己的未来 而不是简单地梦想
They produce their own future,rather than simply foretell it." 换句话说 他所说的是
In other words,what he's talking about here is that 对生活充满信心的人
these people are scribed in their lives. 他们创造自己的人生 与那些
They create their own lives as oppose to those 由他人摆布的人不同 他们适应力更强
that are being prescribed by others. They are more resilient, 对困难与挫折的应对力更强
better able to deal with hardships and difficulties. 换句话说 能力更强
In other words,better capacity 我们之前讨论过应对挫折的问题
as we discussed earlier to deal with difficulties. 这项研究的重要性在于 经过长年累月的
Now the important thing about this research, 研究发现 这些能力是可以习得的
in his research over the years is that it can be learned. 可以慢慢培养
It's cultivated over time. 否则研究就是无用的 至少对我们来说是
So it would be useless if,in terms of research, 如果通过研究他得出结论
at least for us if he would say, 说这种能力只是天生的
well,some people are born with it,and others are not. 有些人天生就有适应力基因
Some people are born with,what they started to talk about, 其他人没有
the resilience gene,and others are not born with that. 幸好情况不是这样
But that's not the case. 他的研究表明这些都可以习得的
What he has shown is that it can be learned. 但要花时间和经历
It takes time,it takes effort, 我们以后会讨论如何培养
and we will talk about later how we do it. 重要的是 这些能力是可以锻炼的
But the important thing,it's malleable. 我们可以改变它
We can do something about it. Curry做过一项关于运动员的研究
Other research by Curry on college athletes, 下面一定坐着许多运动员
I know there are many athletes in this room. 她证明了一旦成为运动员
She showed that 56% of your successes as an athlete, 56%的成功是由期望度决定的
once you start being an athlete,is determined by levels of hope, 成功取决于你坚信自己能取得成功的程度
by how much you believe that you are going to succeed. 记得第一或第二节课上
Remember from very first or second class 我提到了John Carter的研究
where I talked about the research by John Carter, 有关商...哈佛商学院毕业生的
about the business...HBS graduates. 他预测...
Where he predicted... 有两个因素会影响他们的长期成功
where the two things predicted success in the long term, 某些毕业生会格外成功
extraordinary success of these grads. 一是他们不断地提问
One was that they were constantly asking questions, 二是他们相信自己
and two was that they believed in themselves. 他们相信自己能行
They thought they could do well. 但需要意识到的是
But it's important to also realize that 不是所有这些差异
it's not 100 percent of the variances that was explained, 都能用希望 信念或乐观来解释的
by hope,or by belief,or by optimism, 很多自助书籍想引导我们这么认为
as many of the self-help books would have us believe. 但当然这些是成功的一部分
But it's certainly part of the equation of success. Nathaniel Branden从事心理治疗50年了
Nathaniel Branden has been a therapist for fifty years; 他做过许多严谨全面的哲学及心理学研究
he's done a lot of rigorous philosophical and psychological 致力于对自尊概念的探究
research and work on the concept of self-esteem. 等我们进行到自尊课时
We'll visit him more in-depth when we talk about, 会详细讲他的研究
when we have the week on self-esteem. 现在我只引用他的一句话
But for now,just a quick quote: "我们每个人自尊的水平
"the level of our self-esteem,in another words, 也就是自信的程度
the level of our belief in ourselves, 对我们的方方面面有着深远的影响
has profound consequences for every aspect of our existence: 比如我们的待人接物
how we operate in the workplace,how we deal with people, 能取得的地位 能取得多少成就
how high we are likely to rise,how much we are likely to achieve 还比如在个人领域
and,in the personal realm, 我们会与谁坠入爱河
with whom we are likely to fall in love, 我们与配偶 孩子及朋友的关系
how we interact with our spouse,children,and friends, 个人幸福的水平"
what level of personal happiness we attain." 物质富足与幸福感
Very low levels of correlation 或生活地点与幸福感
between material affluence and wellbeing, 属于低度线性相关
or between where we live and wellbeing, 而自尊与幸福感属于高度线性相关
very high correlation between self-esteem and wellbeing. 大多数研究发现两者的相关系数
In most research what we found is a 0.7 correlation 可以达到0.7
between the two constructs. 我的论文也获得了相同结论
This is what I found in my dissertation as well. 所以自尊非常重要
So self-esteem matters. 内在因素很重要 我们提高自信水平时
The internal matters and what we are doing when we enhance 发生在我们身上的是
when we raise our levels of belief in ourselves 我们在转变精神 改变"容器"
is we are transforming our mind,we are changing the form, 这样我们看世界的角度不同了
so that we see we interact,we see the world differently, 有了不同的理解与感悟
we perceive different things, 处事待人的方法不同了
we experience things in a different way. 庆祝成功
Whether it's successes that we then celebrate, 从失败中学习 转化为机遇
or failures that we then learn from and turn into opportunities. 但最重要的是我们的内在
But so much of it is about what we have inside here. Branden说过"自我概念即命运"
Branden,"self-concept is destiny." 与"只要你想得到 只要你相信 你就能够做到"
Very similar to"whatever your mind can conceive,it can achieve" 非常相似 Napoleon Hill说的
from Napoleon Hill. 唯一的不同之处是
The only difference being that he also 他对此进行了严谨细致的思考与研究
puts a lot of rigorous thinking and research there 以证明信仰的局限性
and shows the limitation of the belief. 这一领域的另一个研究
Here is another example of research done in the area 大多数都听说过
which most people know about. 安慰剂效应
The Placebo effect. 你头痛 去看医生
You go to the doctor,you have a headache, 医生说 我给你开种药
the doctor tells you: here I have a pill for you. 非常有效 新出的
The best thing. Just came out recently. 能治疗你的头痛
Will help you get over the headache. 你吃了药 头不痛了
Gives you the pill. You get over the headache. 你不知道的是 她给你的其实是糖球
Unbeknownst to you,what she gave you was,a sugar pill. 但是因为你以为
But because you thought, 因为你相信它能治好头痛
because you believed that it would help your headache, 还真治好了 真是神药啊
it actually did help your headache. Real phenomena medicine. 于是Herbert Benson 在河对岸
So Herbert Benson,from the across the river, 医学院的老师
from the medical school here, 对此做了一系列研究
has done a lot of research in this area. 我着重跟大家讲两个
Let me share with you just two of his studies. 他找了一些处在妊娠期
What Benson did was bringing women who had, 胃部不适的妇女
who were pregnant,and who had stomach problems... 她们都有呕吐恶心的症状
they were vomiting,they were throwing up,they were nauseous, 这其实挺常见的
something which is relatively common 尤其是在怀孕初期的三个月
especially in the first trimester of pregnancy. 他告诉她们
So he brought them in and told them, "这里有一种新药
"I have this new pill for you 能缓解你们胃部不适
that will help you overcome your stomach distress. 治疗呕吐症状
You won't throw up any more after; 非常有效
this is a very powerful and good pill." 于是他把药给了她们
So he gave them that pill and they got over 她们的胃部就好了
their stomach distress,they were better. 当然 她们不知道那只是安慰剂
They didn't know of course this was just a placebo drug, 普通的糖丸
just a sugar pill. 然后他将实验更进一步
Then he took it step further, 找来了另一组有同样胃部不适
brought in another group of women with the exact 呕吐症状的妇女
same stomach distress,with the same vomiting. 把药给她们
Gave them the pill, 告诉她们可以缓解胃病
he told them would help them overcome their stomach distress. 但是这次 他给的不再是糖丸
Only this time,instead of a sugar pill, 而是小剂量
he actually gave them small dosage, 没有危险性的小剂量的吐根
not dangerous but small dosage of ipecac. 你们可能知道吐根...
Now those of you who know what ipecac is... 是催吐时服用的药物
It's a drug that we take if we want to throw up. 如果发生食物中毒
So if we have food poisoning, 就需要服用吐根催吐
we take these drugs and it will actually elicit vomiting. 他给这些病人服用了吐根
So he gave them this drug and again, 这一实验通过了道德审查 没有风险
this passed all the ethic reviews and was not dangerous,you know 他给这些病人服用了吐根
But that's what he did. 并告诉她们能治疗呕吐
And these women were told that they'd get better. 而她们也的确恢复了健康
And they did get better. 本来应该出现的呕吐症状不仅没有出现
Not only did they not vomit as they should have done, 由于服用了吐根更该呕吐的 实际上呕吐却停止了
more so with the ipecac,they actually stopped. 我给大家读一段摘录自他的《永恒的治疗》
Let me read to you an excerpt from his book, 我非常推荐这本书
which I highly recommend,Timeless Healing. "引人注目地是 病人的恶心感与呕吐反应
I quote,"Remarkably,the patients' nausea 完全终止了 且根胃内水球测量
and vomiting ceased entirely and their stomach contractions, 胃胀现象也消失了 恢复正常
as measured through the balloons,returned to normal. 因为她们相信她们服用的是止吐药
Because they believed they received anti-nausea medicine, 竟然逆转了催吐药的作用
the women reversed the proven action of a powerful drug. 虽然很多人在医药箱储存了吐根
Even though many of us stock our medicine cabinets and first aid 以防食物中毒发生
kits with ipecac to bring about vomiting in case of poisoning, 这些胃部不适的孕妇
these pregnant women with documented stomach distress thwarted 却抵御了本该让她们更难受的催吐药物
the action of a drug that should have made them even sicker. 单凭信仰就治好了病痛
With belief alone,they cured themselves." 但这不是说药物没有效果
Now,this doesn't mean that drugs don't have an effect. 我不推荐大家回家以后
You know,I don't recommend going home now and, 给你们的室友
you know,giving your roommates, 服用吐根 甚至氰化物
you know,ipecac or even worse cyanide 然后告诉他们这是维生素C
and then tell them this is actually Vitamin C. 他们一般不会感觉好
they will probably not feel better or healthier as a result. 但这一实验
But what this experiment dose, 及其他类似实验表明
and many others like it show is that powerful effect 我们不应忽视精神的强大力量
of the mind which we shouldn't discard. 而需要研究并理解它
We need to study it and understand. Benson在他的书中还写到了另一个实验
Well,here is another experiment that Benson writes 这项实验是在日本进行的
about in his book. This was done in Japan. 实验对象对某种植物过敏
So,people who are allergic to a specific plant 他们被蒙着眼睛带进实验室
were brought into a lab,had their eyes closed,and then, 研究人员用过敏植物碰触他们一只手臂
they had these plant touch their forearm, 然后用另一种植物碰触另一只手臂
and then they had another plant touch their other forearm, 但没有告诉他们哪边是过敏植物
and they didn't know which was which. 理论上被过敏植物碰触的手臂
And of course that plant that they were allergic to, 会发出了疹子 出现过敏反应
the arm flared up. They were allergic to it after all. 但是 实验还有另一个条件
But then,their was a second condition, 他们被告知会过敏的植物
these people were told that the actual drug(plant) 碰触了他们的左手
that they are allergic to touched their left hand, 不会导致过敏的植物
and another plant that they were not allergic to 碰触了他们的右手
touched their right hand. 但是Benson将两者对调了
But Benson reversed the effect, 即真正会导致过敏的植物
so actually the plant that they were allergic to 碰触的是他们的右手 而不会导致过敏的
touched their right hand,and the plant that 碰触的是他们的左手
they were not allergic to touched their left hand. 所以按理说 应该右手起疹子 而非左手
So they were supposed to flare up on the right,not on the left. 但是因为他们误以为左边的才是
But because they believed that the allergic plant 过敏植物 所以左手起了疹子
was on the left,their left hand flared up, 而右手没有
their right hand did not. 因为精神的力量
Based on the power of the mind. 但同样的 这并不是说外在因素不重要
Once again,this does not mean that the external doesn't matter 也不说明生活中的一切都是被吸引过来的
and that we attracted everything that we want to into our lives, 但是这的确证明了精神
but it does mean that the mind plays a very important role 对构建我们的生理 情感 认知
in creating our physical,certainly emotional, 以及外在环境起了重要作用
cognitive as well as external reality. 信念常常会成为自我实现的预言
Beliefs very often become self-fulfilling prophecies. 但它是如何作用的呢?
But how does it work? How does it work? 我想跟大家分享一个模型
Let me share with you this model that 是我根据这一领域大量研究建立起来的
I created based on a lot of research in the field. 它基本上解释了我们的信念及希望
That essentially tries to explain how our beliefs, 是如何影响我们的表现的
our expectations impact our performance. 无论是安慰剂效应
Whether it's through the placebo drug, 还是我们学习 体育运动 恋爱关系等
whether it's our performance in school,in sports, 生活各个方面的表现
in relationships,in every area in our lives. 换句话说 这盒子里是什么
In other words,what comes in the box here? 这上面应该有哪些内容?
Or in the...over here? 是什么斡旋于信念期望
What comes,what mediate between beliefs, 及实际表现之间?
expectations and actual performance in the real world? 我想谈谈两个机制
I want to talk about two mechanisms. 第一个相对简单易懂
The first one is very straight forward, 即动力
relatively simple,it's motivation. 如果我相信我能行
So,if I believe that I can do well, 各位可以回忆一下自己的经历
and think about your own past experiences, 当你相信你能做好某事时
when you believe that you could do well in something, 会非常有动力
you are much more likely to be motivated 如果你认为自己希望渺茫
than if you think that you are hopeless and have no chance, 那就很有可能就此放弃 无所作为
you are much more likely to resign and not do anything. 你不仅事前会受到激励
You are much more likely to be motivated before 无论是训练 还是练习
the event whatever the event may be,in training,in practice, 而且正式进行时也会动力十足
as well as during the event,while it's taking place. 想想Marva Collins的研究
Think about what Marva Collins did. 她激励学生
She motivated her students, 让他们相信他们能获得成功
she made them believe that they could achieve, 他们一生中能有所作为
that they could make something out of their lives 这是他们的责任
and that it's their responsibility that it was up to them, 这改变了他们的命运
and that made all the difference for them. 因为他们有了动力 所以非常刻苦
Because they were motivated,they worked hard. 所以动力非常重要
So motivation makes a difference. 除了动力外 另一样东西也会影响我们
There is another thing though,in addition to motivation, 即一致性或相合性的概念
and that is the notion of consistency or congruence. 那是什么意思
What dose that mean? 我们每个人对世界都存在心理图式
You see,we all have a mental schema of the world, 世界应该怎么样 会怎么样 是怎么样
a mental schema of the way the world should be,or to be or is. 比如 我的一个心理图式
For example,I have a mental schema 表明把东西放在半空会掉下来
that suggests that things fall when left in middle air. 所以我认为如果我放开这东西
So I have a schema that says that if I dropped this, 它就会掉下来
it would actually fall. 图式认为我的数学能力
I have a schema about my ability in mathematics 我可能是个优秀的数学家
that I might be a good mathematician, 我在这一领域是否有潜力
that I have potential in this area or not. 对其他人的态度也有图式 我喜欢这人
I also have the schema about other people. I like this person. 那人真好
That person is a nice person versus 还是那人不好 残忍
this person is just not nice,cruel. 所以我们对他人 对自己
So we have schemas about other people, 对自然现象 都有图式
about ourselves,about natural phenomenon. 图式就是内在
This is inside,the schema. 还有外部世界
And then,there is the outside world. 现实发生在外部世界
In the outside world,actual things take place. 比如 半空中我松开手 它就会掉下来
For example,when this is left in middle air,it falls. 这一事实与我的图式无关
This is,has nothing to do with my schema. 它发生在外部世界 不管我的图式如何
It's outside. It happens regardless of my schema. 我在数学上的实际潜力
Now I have certain potential 也与我的图式无关
in mathematics regardless of my schema. 某个人对他人
A certain person behaves generously and benevolently 是慷慨仁慈还是可憎无礼
toward other people or in a hateful manner 也与我的图式无关
toward other people regardless of my schema. 所以内部和外部两个因素
So there is what's inside and what is outside, 共同作用就是关键
and here is the key point. 我们的精神不喜欢内部与外部
You see,the mind dose not like when there is a discrepancy 存在差异
between what is inside and what is outside. 我们的精神喜欢两者一致相合
The mind likes when there is consistency, 如果不相合
congruence between the two,and if there is no congruence, 如果不一致
if there is no consistency, 我们就会产生异议感
then we experience a sense of dissidence, 觉得不适
then we experience disease. 感觉不舒服 不对劲
Doesn't feel good,doesn't feel right and we do,very often, 所以我们常常不惜一切 让两者统一
everything that we can to get the two on par again. 要么改变外部现实
Either by changing the external reality 要么改变自我思维以符合外部现实
or by changing our mind to match the external reality. 我们不喜欢不一致
We don't like when there is inconsistency. 有好几种方法
There are a few ways in which 可以重建一致性
we can create this consistency again. 我给大家介绍几个
Let me share with you just some of them, 我会讲4个 都是互相关联的
and I'm gonna share four. They are interconnected. 互相联系 还有重合之处
There is relationship between. there is overlap, 但这样能帮助你们就此进行思考
but just so it helps you to think about it. 帮助你们理解内部与外部间
That helps you understand the dialogue that takes place 发生的对话
between what is inside or what is inside and what is outside. 两者差异发生时
So the first thing we can do when there is a discrepancy, 我们首先能做的就是更新图式
when there is inconsistency between the two is update schema. 这是第一种做法
This is the first thing we can do. 比如 原来我不知道松开手东西会掉下来
So,I didn't know things fell when left in middle air, 现在我知道了 于是我更新图式
now I know,I updated my schema. 又比如 我原来以为那人很可恶
Or,I thought that person was actually hateful, 但我看到他们对别人慷慨仁慈
but I just saw him behave generously and benevolently, 于是我更新图式 他是个好人
now I update my schema,he's a nice person. 第二种做法
The second thing that we do, 通常比第一种更普遍
which happens much more often than the first one, 即忽视或抛弃外在信息
is ignore or discard in external information. 忽视或抛弃
We ignore and discard external information 不符合图式的外部信息
that doesn't match our schema. 我们不喜欢不一致
We don't like this inconsistency, 于是直接扔掉这种不一致
we just throw this inconsistency out, 也就是忽视 抛弃它
so to speak,by ignoring it,discarding it. 第三种方法
The third thing we do, 主动验证
we actively seek confirmation. 我们会主动寻求验证信息
We actively seek confirmatory data. 想想2和3 想想现实世界
I mean,think about No.2 and 3,think about in the real 今年正是选举年
you know we are in the midst of election year. 想想你不会投谁的票
Think about the person you are not going to vote for, 或者你以前没投过谁
or the person you didn't vote for. 我们是怎么做的?通常 比如
What we do? Very often,let's say, 我看到布什总统做了件好事
I see President Bush doing something good, 为我信仰的某个事业奋斗
actually fighting for a cause that I believe in. 但我之前没给布什投票 举例而已
But I didn't vote Bush,for instance. 于是多数情况下 我会选择
Very often what I would do is ignore 忽视抛弃这条信息
and discard that information, 然后寻找有利证据以支持...
and then look for confirming evidence that will suggest...or that 坚定我讨厌布什的立场
will confirm to me why I don't like Bush in the first place. 这同样适用于今后的选举 比如希拉里或奥巴马
This same regarding,say the future elections,Hillary or Obama. 如果我不喜欢他们 我就会寻找相应证据
If I dislike them,I would look for confirming evidence 证明我为什么不喜欢他们
why I dislike them and even if they do things 即使他们做了什么我喜欢 重视或信仰的事
that I like and value and believe in, 通常我会选择忽视
I very often will ignore these things and discard them. 我们所做的 就是创造另一个现实
And what you are doing here,you are creating a reality 因为我们在质疑
because you are asking a question such as 布什做过什么恶
where has Bush done terrible things or 希拉里或奥巴马做过什么恶
where has Hillary or Obama did terrible things? 当我们问这些问题时
And when we ask these questions, 我们已经完全忽略抛弃正面的东西
we completely ignore,discard,not see the positives. 记得我问你们几何性质吗
Remember when I ask you about the geometric shapes? 你们没看见车上的孩子
You didn't see the children on the bus. 虽然他们就在你们眼前
Even though they were right there in front your very eyes. 所以质疑会创造现实
So we know that questions create reality, 而为了保持一致性
and in order to maintain this consistency, 我们常常会采取二者中的一种方法
we do very often one of these two things. 要么忽视抛弃 要么寻找有利证据
Either ignore and discard,or seek confirming evidence, 无论积极或消极 来支持我们的图式
positive or negative to back up our schema. 是希拉里 奥巴马好 还是布什好
Hillary,Obama is good or Bush is good 或是其他任何看法
or whatever it is that we are thinking about. 第4件事直接得多 即创造新的现实
The fourth thing is much more directly,creating a new reality. 1954年5月6日前的现实是什么
What kind of reality existed before the 6th of May,1954? 当时的现实是 4分钟
It was reality in which four minutes 是人类的极限 不可能突破
was the limit of human ability. 爱迪生做...抱歉 Bannister做了什么
And what did Edison do,sorry,what did Bannister do? 他说可能 于是改变了外在现实
He said it's possible and then he changed the external reality. 不仅是他自己 还有世界上其他赛跑者
Not just for himself,but also for other runners in the world. 突然间创造了新的现实
And suddenly a new reality was created. 起初的图式是4分钟不可能跑完
Initially the schema was four minutes is not possible, 或者说4分钟不可能跑完
or rather four minutes is not possible 而所有人都拥护这个图式
and everyone adhered to this schema. Roger Bannister认为是可能的
Roger Bannister came and said,it is possible, 他改变了现实 不仅为自己
and changed that reality,not just for himself, 也为其他赛跑者
but for other runners who were there. 事实是 当干劲十足的人达成后
The thing though is,that after we perform with high motivation, 干劲没那么足的人可能也会寻求统一
low motivation might looking for consistency. 我们需要解读自己表现
All that is left us to do is interpret our performance. 成功还是不成功 好还是坏
Was it successful or not successful,and good or bad? 有两种解读方法
And there are two forms of interpretation. 一是客观解读
One is the objective interpretation, 我考试得了A还是C
did I just give A in an exam or did I get a C. 跑步我是第三名还是最后一名
Did I just come third or did I come last in their race. 周五与普林斯顿大学的冰球赛
Did I just be Princeton in hockey on Friday? 是赢了还是输了?哈佛加油 到底发生了什么?
Or did I lose to Princeton? Go Harvard. So what happen? 这就是现实 客观
This is the reality. It's objective,its objective. But then, 但同时 还有由信仰决定的主观解读
there is also the subjective interpretation based on my beliefs. 举个例子
Let me share an example with you... 有个关于托马斯.爱迪生的故事
This is a story told about Thomas Edison. 爱迪生于1870年代
Thomas Edison,back in the 1870's, 与科学界都在研究灯泡
was working along with the rest of the scientific community 如何用电发光
on the light bulb,on generating light from electricity. 整个科学界都在研究这一课题
The entire scientific community or much of it was working 但一无所获
on that,on that issue,with no success, 爱迪生也不例外
Thomas Edison being no exception. 当地报纸的一名记者
A journalist from one of the local papers 前去采访爱迪生
came to Thomas Edison to interview. 他当时已经非常有名了 发明了很多东西
He was already famous by then,he invented many things. 他们谈了各种话题
And they were talking about various things 然后开始讲灯泡问题
and then they got to talk about the light bulb. 那个记者对爱迪生说 "爱迪生先生"
And the journalist said to Edison,"Mr. Edison, 您致力于灯泡研究许多年了
you've been working on the light bulb for many years. 整个科学界都在进行相同研究
The rest of the scientific community has been working on it, 但毫无所获"
to no avail." 当时爱迪生已经进行了5000次实验
Now at that point Thomas Edison had conducted 5000 experiments, 这位记者也知道 于是他对爱迪生说
so,and the journalist knew that so he told Edison, "爱迪生先生 您已经进行了5000次实验
"Mr. Edison,you've conducted 5000 experiments, 失败了5000次 放弃吧"
and you failed 5000 times. Give it up." 你们可能知道 爱迪生听力不好
Now Thomas Edison,some of you may know was also hard 事实上 他有一项专利就是助听器
of hearing,in fact one of his patents was a hearing aid. 所以他对记者说"你说什么
So he said to the journalist," Excuse me,what did you say?" 那个记者重复"我说你失败了5000次
The journalist said,"well,I said you failed 5000 times, 放弃吧" 爱迪生回答"我没有失败5000次
give it up." So Edison responded,"I didn't fail 5000 times. 是成功了5000次
I succeeded 5000 times. 我成功证明了哪些方法行不通"
I succeeded in showing what doesn't work." 同样的客观现实 表现 5000次失败
Same objective reality,performance,5000 failed experiments, 但却有完全不同的解读
but very different interpretation. 那个记者也其他科学界认定
The journalist and many other people 这是不可能达成的
in the scientific community conclude its not possible, 但爱迪生的主观解读
the interpretation,subjective interpretation of Edison it's just 却是他走向成功的敲门砖 因为是可能的
another stepping stone towards success because it is possible. 事实是 爱迪生在发明灯泡前就宣布
In fact,Edison declared,before he had the light bulb, 他将在1879年12月31日
that on the 31st of December,1879, 展示灯泡
he would display the light bulb. 这是在他发明灯泡前
That was long before he had done it. 1879年12月31日 爱迪生向世界展示了
On the 31st of December,1879,Edison displayed to the world, 用电发光
generating light from electricity. 同样地 1962年 肯尼迪总统说
Just like in 1962,John F. Kennedy said that there would be a man 60年代末人类将踏上月球
on the moon by the end of the decade. 那时我们连登月的物质条件...
And there was before we had the materials necessary for doing it, 科学技术都还不具备
before we had other technology necessary for doing it. 他向全世界放话说
He threw his knapsack over the world 人类能踏上月球 然后创造了现实
and said it's possible to do it. And that created a reality. 这与大量的辛勤工作是分不开的
That was coupled with a lot of hard work. 事实上 爱迪生失败了不止5000次
Edison in fact failed more that 5000 more times 才最终发明了灯泡
before he actually created the light bulb. 他不是干坐在实验室说
It wasn't just sitting his room and saying, "相信就能做到"
"I believe therefore I will achieve." 而是我相信 而且我会加倍努力
It was I believe and I will work even harder now, 满怀斗志地工作
with more motivation and so on. 他的一条名言是"我从失败走向成功"
One of his mantras,"I failed my way to success." 爱迪生是史上最富创造力最多产的科学家
It is no coincidence that Edison,by far the most creative 这并不是巧合
and productive scientific genius of all time. 他一生申请了1097项专利
he patented 1097 patents in his career. 当今世界的发展 大半要归功于他
Much of our world looks the way it looks, 史上最成功最富创造力的科学家
thanks to him. No coincidence,but the most successful, 也是失败次数最多的科学家
creative scientist in history is also,as far as we know, 这并不是巧合
the scientist who had failed the most times. 还有Dean Simonton的研究
Research by Dean Simonton,we'll talk about it more depth 等我们谈到完美主义时会精讲
when we talked about perfectionism. Dean Simonton的研究证明
Research by Dean Simonton shows that 史上最成功的科学家与艺术家
the most successful scientists and artists through our history 也是失败次数最多的
were also the ones who failed the most times. "Babe"Ruth是职业生涯中全垒打次数最多的球手
No coincidence that "Babe" Ruth,who hit during many of the years 他也是三振出局最多的
when he played the most homeruns,also hit the most strike outs. 其中有5个赛季 三振出局次数最多
In five of these seasons,was strike out the most times rather. 史上最成功的人往往是
The most successful people in history are also very often, 失败次数最多的
the people who had failed the most times. 这一句话我会反复在课堂上重复
This is a sentence that I'll repeat it over and over again 学会失败 从失败中学习
in the class and here it is: learn to fail,or fail to learn. 学会失败 从失败中学习
Learn to fail,or fail to learn, 成功别无他法
there is no other way to succeed. 学习如何工作别无他法
There is no other way to learn,in terms of how to work, 要学习如何在科学 政治或艺术界
and there is no other way to learn in terms of learning 取得成功 别无他法
how to succeed as scientist,or as a politician,or as an artist. 正如Dean Simonton指出的那样 纵观历史
The artists,as Dean Simonton showed,who had the most dubs, 那些有过最多次挫折 最多次失败尝试的艺术家
the most failed attempts through out history were also 也是最终看来最成功的艺术家
the artists who were the most successful in the long run. 成功没有捷径
No short cuts. 只是坐下来思考
It's not enough to just sit down and think, 构想和相信是不够的
and conceive and believe. 我们要做的比这多得多
We need to do much more than that. Martin Seligman 他被认为是积极心理学之父
Martin Seligman,considered father of positive psychology, 做了一些有关乐观主义和悲观主义的研究
has done a lot of work on optimism and pessimism. 他发现
And here is what he found. 他发现 就目标设定而言
What he found was that when it comes to goal setting, 悲观主义者不论在他们的短期目标
pessimists are realistic in terms of their short term goals 还是长期目标上都很现实
as well as in terms of their long term goals. 现实是好事
That's good thing to be a realistic. 短期目标和长期目标都很现实
Short term goal as well as long term goal realistic. 而乐观主义者很现实 抱歉 乐观主义者与之相反
Where as optimists are realistic,sorry,optimists on the other 在他们的短期目标设定上并不现实
hand,are unrealistic when it comes to their short term goals, 但对于他们的长期目标就很现实
but are realistic when it comes to their long term goals. 这是怎么回事? 让我们再来看这个模型
Why is that? Well,let's look at the model again. 我们先来看悲观主义者
So let's take the pessimists first. 他们有某个目标 他们的期望低
They have certain goal,and they have low expectations, 信念不高 他们不认为自己能做好
low levels of beliefs,they don't think they would do well. 积极性低 他们的大脑寻求一致
Low levels of motivation,their mind looks for consistency, 他们的表现通常取决于
and their performance is usually according to 他们的信念和期望
their beliefs and expectations. 他们的理解是 我早跟你说了
And the interpretation is,I told you so. 我早就跟你说了我做不好
I told you I couldn't do well here. 于是其他人都异口同声说是的 你早就跟我们说了
And then everyone else in a chorus says,yes,you told us so. 你这样现实真是好啊
How wonderfully realistic of you. 但有时悲观主义者超出了自身的期望
But then sometimes a pessimist succeeds 取得了成功
beyond his or her expectations. 那么又会怎么样呢?
And then what happens? 这时的解释是 低水平的信念
The interpretation is,low levels of beliefs, 那么解释就是 只是走运而已
so the interpretation is,well,it was lucky, 是因为火星转到了金星的前面
it was because Mars was in front of Venus, 50年难得一遇 不会再发生了
and that only happens once every 50 years,won't happen again. 或者 今天是我的幸运日 或者是因为她今天表现得不好
Or,it was my lucky day,or,she just played very poorly today. 于是 大脑在寻求一致
And then,the mind looking for consistency, 一次又一次地重复这个循环
they go around that loop again and again, 然后再一次变得现实
and then become realistic once more. 不成功的现实 但是现实
Unsuccessfully realistic,but realistic. 于是他们在短期目标上
So they're realistic in the short term 同样也在长期目标上很现实
as well as in the long term. 我们现在来看乐观主义者
Let's look at the optimist now. 乐观主义者一开始有着很高的信念
The optimist starts with high levels of beliefs, 很高的期望 积极性 非常高
high levels of expectations,motivation,incredibly high. 他们的大脑寻求一致性 表现 没那么好
The mind looking for consistency,performance,not so good, 没期望中的那么好
not as good as the expectations were. 换言之就是 不现实
In other words,unrealistic. 但是 由于信念水平很高 他们的解释
However,the interpretation,because of high levels of beliefs, 其主观的解释是
the subjective interpretation is, 好吧 如果我从中吸取教训了会怎么样? 这是个机会
OK,so,what if I learn from it? This is an opportunity; 我这次其实做得有进步了 就当吸取教训了
I've actually got better this time. What if I learn? 他们依然保持着很高的信念
And they still have high levels of beliefs 很高的期望
and high levels of expectations. 积极性很高 大脑寻求积极性
Motivation is high,the mind looks for consistency, 他们的表现依然不好
they perform,still not good, 没有他们所期望的那么好 不现实
not as good as they expected,unrealistic. 但解释依然是 如果我从中吸取教训了会怎么样?
But the interpretation,still,what if I learn from it? 我这次做得好多了
I've gone even better this time. 我指出了哪些方法是不可行的 然后他们继续
I've shown what doesn't work. And they continue. 但然后外界的声音就会争吵说
But then comes the quarrels from the outside and says, "不是吧 真的么 你为什么就不能现实点
"come on,really,why can't you be realistic 像你的好兄弟或者好姐妹 悲观主义者那样"
like your good brother or sister,the pessimist." 但是他们相信他们能做到
But they believed that they can do it, 于是一次又一次地继续坚持 继续努力工作
and they continue to persist and to work hard again and again. 5次 10次 有时5000次 甚至10000次
5 times,10 times,sometimes 5000 even 10000 times, 久而久之 直到他们带来了"不现实的现实"并让它成真
until they bring the "unrealistic reality" and make it realistic 和他们的信念相一致了
to match their beliefs over time. 所以即使在短期看来 现实可能不一致
So even though in the short term,the reality may not match, 我可能接下来10年跑一英里
I may run the mile for the next 10 years in 4 minutes 都要4分12秒或者4分2秒
and 12 seconds or 4 minutes and 2 seconds. 但我终将到达目标 让我不现实的
But I'll get there eventually and make my unrealistic "期望"和目标变成现实
"expectations" and goals realistic. 经历很多失败 经历很多努力付出
Through a lot of failure,through a lot of hard work, 经历很多坚持不懈
through a lot of persistence. Seligman就乐观主义和悲观主义的内容所展现的
What Seligman shows about optimism and pessimism is not 并非只是某种遇事过分乐观的自我感觉良好
that it's not just some pollyannaish feel-good, 你知道 构想然后相信之类的方式
you know conceive and believe,kind of approach. 而是关于我们如何解释事件
Rather,it's about how we interpret events. 比如 我如何解释我的失败?
So for example,how do I interpret my failure? 最后的结论是 大惨败 放弃
As end of the story,catastrophe, give it up? 还是一个通向成功的机会?
Or as an opportunity for success? 所以他 我们下次课会谈到
So he distinguishes,and we'll talk about it more next time, 他把解释一件事分为是
he distinguishes between interpreting an event 永久的还是暂时的
as permanent or temporary. 我没发明电灯 那么这可能意味着
I just didn't create light from electricity,so that could mean, 这是不可能的 我永远也做不到 或者也可能意味着
well,it's not possible and I'll never do it or it could mean, 这是向成功的更进一步
well,this is another step towards success: 告诉我了什么是不可行的
showing what doesn't work. 我想要的一份工作被拒了
I've just being turned down from a job that I wanted, 这意味着我永远都找不到工作
well,it means I'll never find a job 或者这是个暂时的挫折 来看看我学到了什么
or that's a temporary setback. Let's see what I can learn. 来看看我怎么样能重新寻找并
Let's see how I can home my search and find, 最终找到我理想中的职位
eventually,my ideal position. 也要看人的态度是一概而论还是有针对性
It's also about being pervasive or specific. 悲观主义者认为事物是...
Pessimists look at things that's being... 他们一概以消极眼光看事情
the negatives,being pervasive. 我不是个好的科学家还是...
Well,I'm just not a good scientist versus... 我只是这一次的这个实验没做好
well,I just wasn't able to get this experiment right this time. 或者如果考试得了低分 我就是白痴
Or if I get a poor grade on an exam,I'm just stupid. 看什么都是一概而论 不是全部就是一无所有
Pervasive,everything,all or nothing. 而相反可以认为我只是具体这一次考试没考好
Versus I just didn't do well here on this specific exam. 我从中能吸取什么教训并且下次如何能考好
What can I learn from it and how can I do better next time. 这就是乐观主义和悲观主义 而这种态度可以习得
This is what optimism and pessimism is. And it can be learned. 很多有关这方面的研究...表明学习主观地
A lot of research in this area...showing how learning to interpret 像乐观主义者 解释事件可以获得更高层次的成功
events subjectively as optimists leads to much higher success. 你们中的而有些人可能知道Matt Biondi 1988年汉城奥运会
Some of you may recognize Matt Biondi. 1988 Seoul Olympics. 许多人都认为他能追平Mark Spitz
Many people thought that he could equal Mark Spitz 7块金牌的记录
records of seven gold medals. 第一场比赛 银牌 巨大的失望
First race,silver medal. Huge disappointment. 第二场比赛 铜牌 巨大的失望
Second race,bronze medal. Huge disappointment. 大家 我记得很清楚
Everyone I remembered that very distinctly. 人们谈论着他如何受到压力的影响
People talking about how he falls under pressure, 他不是我们所期望的那个人
how he is not the person we thought he is. Martin Seligman在那时说"不 他将会成功"
Martin Seligman at that point said "no,he's going to succeed" 为什么? 因为他衡量过他和许多其他运动员
Why? Because he measured him and many other athletes 在乐观与悲观方面的水平
on their levels of optimism and pessimism. Matt Biondi一直是个乐观主义者
And Matt Biondi was a constant optimist. 他知道他会将这些"失败"理解为 我指的是
And he knew he would interpret these "failures",I mean,you know 奥运会上的银牌和铜牌 算是失败 对吧?
bronze and silver medals in the Olympics,failures,right? 这些相对于他期望赢得7块金牌来说 是失败
But these relative for him expected to win seven golds,failures, 但他不会把它们视为永久性的失败
he would interpret them not as permanent. 把"我发挥失常 我不能在奥运会上实现目标"
"I choke. I can't make it in the Olympics" 视为 "我再也不能游好泳和赢比赛了"
as pervasive "I can't swim well anymore and win" 而只是视为暂时的和特定的失败 他也正是那么做的
to temporary and specific,which he did exactly that 并赢下了接下来的5块金牌
and won the next five gold medals. 这让很多人吃惊 但Seligman和他的研究小组没有
Surprising many people,not Seligman and his research team 他们非常清楚他的理解方式
who knew exactly what his interpretation style would be 屡"败"屡战
following these "failures". 这同样也和社会和身心健康有关
Also it associated with social and physical mental health. 比如我们的免疫系统 心理上和生理上的免疫系统
For example,our immune system,psychological and physical immune 因为乐观而实际上增强了
system is actually stronger as a result of being optimists. 适应力水平 Karen Reivich的很多研究表明
Resilience levels,a lot of research by Karen Reivich shows 如果你教人们积极地 乐观地理解事物
that if you teach people to interpret things positively, 他们就更有可能成功
optimistically,they are much more likely to succeed. 如果有谁有兴趣了解更多这方面的内容 看她的书
Those of you who are interested in more about this,her book, 《适应力因素》 Karen Reivich写的 很不错的书
The Resilience Factor,Karen Reivich,fantastic book, 她在书里讲到了一个为期
where she talks about programs implemented where within 几个星期的项目 孩子们此后两年都
a few weeks kids are immune to the experience of depression 对忧郁的经历免疫
two years hence... 那些学习如何乐观的人
People who learn to be optimistic and she teaches them 她在短短两周时间里对他们进行指导
in a short period as two weeks compare that 并和剑桥Summerville五年的研究做对比
to the five years of the Cambridge Summerville Study. 在短短两周时间里 那些被教导
Within as little as two weeks,people who were 乐观地理解事物的人变得更快乐
taught optimistic interpretation style become happier, 学过的人患上忧郁的可能性
those who learn it are eight times less likely 减小了八倍
to experience depression. 有忧郁经历的可能性减小了八倍
Eight times less likely to experience depression, 只是简单地学习一种不同的理解方式
if you simply learn a different interpretation style. 我没有失败5000次
I haven't failed 5000 times; 我成功地发现了什么是不可行的
I've succeeded in showing what doesn't work. 所以如果我这次没做好
So what if I didn't do well now, 我下次或者下下次会做得更好
I will do better next time or the time after that. 学会更积极地理解事物的人
People who learn to interpret things more positively 事实上活得更长
actually live longer. 我们将会谈到一些这方面的研究
And we'll talk about some of this research. 你会读到一些这方面的内容 修女研究等等
You'll read about a bit of it,the Nun Study and so on. 积极地理解事物或者更乐观的人
People who interpret things positively 事实上活得更长
or more optimistic actually live longer. 那并不是说所有的悲观主义者都短寿
Now that does not mean that all pessimists die young 而所有的乐观主义者都长寿
and all optimists die old. 那只是这个等式里的因素之一
That's just one of the factors that goes into the equation, 还有其他的因素
there's many other things. 你知道 也有不现实的乐观主义
You know,you don't want,there is also unrealistic optimism 我们稍后会谈到
that we'll talked about it in a minute. 你知道 一个乐观主义者说
You know a person is optimist and says, "无论如何 我会活到120岁"他有吸烟的习惯
"I'll live to 120 no matter what"and smokes,you know, 但一天抽120支烟很可能活不到120岁
120 cigarettes a day would probably not live to 120. 所以这不只是只是信念 还有很多因素
So it's not just about the belief,but a lot of it is. 最后 正如我屡次提到的 它是可以习得的
And finally,as I mentioned time and again,it can be learned, 我们将讨论要如何学习它 我们能怎么学
and we'll talk about how it can be learned and how we can learn, 而在你的课后论文里 你们将研究这个问题
and you'll do it whether it's in your response paper, 不是这周的 是下周的论文
not for this week,but for the next week, 或者是通过分组作业 或者独自完成
as well as in sections,as well as by yourselves. 一种能被习得
A technique that can be learned 并有所有这些积极效应的方法
and can have all these positive effects. 好吧
Okay. 但是有一个问题
There's a problem here though. 我要如何区分这两者
You know,how do I distinguish between this 现实的乐观主义和不现实的乐观主义
and realistic optimism and unrealistic optimism. 用盲目乐观主义做例子
Detached optimism that is advocated in for example 对于自助运动而言
for self-help movement. 是不是所有我认为我能实现的
Is everything that I think of I achieve 我构想的都能变成现实?
and conceive and becomes a reality? 我的自我概念是否我的且是我唯一的命运?
Is my self-concept my destiny and my only destiny? 或是否存在所谓的不现实信念?
Or is there such a thing as unrealistic beliefs? 确实存在这样一个东西
And there is such a thing as unrealistic beliefs. 下面是个例子
Here is an example. 她的叫Rena 是个歌舞女郎 至少对我来说她是
Her name was Rena,she was a showgirl,at least to me,she was. Rena和我有很多共同点
Rena and I had a great deal in common. 我们都十几岁 我12岁 她14岁
We were both in our teens, I was twelve. She was fourteen. 我们都5英尺高
We both were in our fives. 她5英尺6英寸 我5英尺1英寸 我爱上了Rena
She was 5'6. I was 5'1. I was in love with Rena. Rena也爱她自己
Rena too was in love with herself. 现在 只是做个边注 我有一个很棒的妈妈
Now,just as a side note,I have a wonderful mother, 很好的妈妈 她相信我
and amazing mother who believes in me. 而事实上当我们三个
And in fact when the three of us. 我们三兄妹放学回家时
We were three brothers and sisters would come home from school. 我们经常会跟妈妈讲学校里
We would very often talked to our mom about everything 发生的所有事 好事还有坏事
that was going on in school,good and bad. 我有一天回家 意识到我是真心地 疯狂地
So I came home after I realized that I was truly and madly 爱上Rena 她就是我的真命天女
in love with Rena and that she was the one for me. 我回到家 告诉了我妈妈
I came home and talked to my mom about it. 我告诉她 "妈妈 我那么地爱她"
And I told her,"Mom,I love her so." 于是她说 "那问题是什么?"
So she said," what's the problem?" 我就跟她解释了她比我大
And I explained to her that she was older that I was 学校里的那些大男生也对她有兴趣
and all the big boys in the school were interested in her, 她比我高多了
that she was much taller than I was. 而我妈妈对我有信心 她采用了
And my mother believed in me and went on 自我应验预言的那一套
self-fulfilling prophecy campaign. 尽管她从没读过Napoleon Hill
And though she had never read Napoleon Hill, 她对我说 "Tal 只要你想得到
she said to me,"Tal,whatever you conceive, 只要你相信 你就能做到"
whatever you believe,you can achieve." 尽管她从没读过Branden 她对我说
And though she had never read Branden,she said to me, "Tal 你的自我概念就是命运 而Rena就是你的命运"
"Tal,your self-concept is destiny. And Rena is your destiny." 她告诉我如果我真的真的认为我可以
And she told me that if I truly,truly believed that I could, 相信Rena会喜欢我 她就真的会喜欢我
that Rena would want me. She really would want me. 我妈妈激励了我 让我相信自己
And my mom inspired me and made me believe in myself. 于是我去接近Rena 我做好了准备
So I went ahead to approach Rena,and I prepared for it. 我认真做好了准备
I really prepared for it. 虽然我那时还没有刮胡子 但我喷了些须后水
Though I wasn't shaving at that time,I put on aftershave. 然后我继续行动
And I continued. 我可以做到 我知道我能
I can do it. I know I can. 我走进Rena 但这时音乐停止了
And I approach Rena,but then the music stopped. 尽管我期望很高
And though I had very high expectations, 尽管我预想我能成功
and though I envisioned success. 我闭上眼睛 我看到自己成功了
I closed my eyes and I saw myself succeeding. 她没有兴趣 她不喜欢我
She was not interested. She didn't want me. 但是 但是 我们成为了很好的朋友
However,however,we became very good friends. 事实上我们关系那么好 她会跟我谈论
In fact so good that she would tell me about 她那些肤浅的高大的男朋友们
all her shallow and tall boyfriends. 当我妈妈告诉我她真的对我有信心
Now when my mom told me that she really believed in it, 她认为我是-- 她用意第绪语对我说
that she thought I was,you know that she told me this in Yiddish 她说(意第绪语)
and she said "foreign language" 在意第绪语里的意思是 "你是个大发现"
which means in Yiddish "you're a big find." 我真的 真的就是
I was really my,you know,really, 我那犹太母亲心中符合犹太教规的皮格马利翁
I was my Jewish mother's kosher Pygmalion. 好烂的比喻 我知道
So bad,yeah. 那句话花了我不少时间想出来的
You know,that took me a lot of time to think about, 你们最好表示一下喜欢它
you'd better appreciate it. 但是...谢谢 谢谢 但这没有用
But...thank you,thank you. But it didn't work. 再一次 别误解我 我非常感激我妈妈
And again,don't get me wrong,I'm very grateful to my mom. 简直就像是全天候的驻家Marva Collins
I literally had 24/7 Marva Collins in my house. 我是那么地感激我妈妈 但是 这一次
I owe so much to my mom. However,in this case, 这可能不是现实的信念
it probably was not the realistic belief. 那么什么是现实的?
So what is realistic? 我们如何区分什么是现实的 什么不是?
How do we identify what is realistic and what is not? 下面是一些对我们有帮助的想法
Here are some ideas to help us do so. 斯托克代尔悖论
The Stockdale paradox. 它认为要找出矛盾
It's about finding the tension, 让矛盾化解 这并不容易
reconciling the tension and it's not easy. 我不会给你们一个公式 告诉你们:
Again,I'm not going to give you a formula now to tell you: 好吧 就这样...算这个 如果是大于7的
OK,here is...calculate this,and if it's above seven, 就没有问题 低于7的 可能就不是这样
go ahead with green; below seven,probably not so. 不存在什么公式 但是 仅作为一个启发式
There is no formula. But here is,just a heuristic, 当你思考信念时 存在一些需要思考的东西
something to think about when you think about beliefs. James Stockdale是名海军上将 他是
James Stockdale was admiral. James Stockdale was the highest 越南战争被俘人员里级别最高的战俘
ranking prisoner of war in the... in the Vietnam War. 他开始注意到一个现象 他在那关了很多年
And he started to notice a phenomenon. He was there for years. 最终被释放并得以活着向人们讲述往事 而其他许多战俘没能做到
Eventually got out and live to tell the tale many others did not. 他看到许多人幸存 许多人死亡
And he saw many people survive,many people not survive. 战俘的生存条件非常恶劣
The very harsh conditions of the prisoner. 他发现那些活下来的人有两个特点
What he was that the people who survived had two characteristics. 第一个 他们相信他们能出去
First of all,they believed that they would get out, 他们坚信终有一天他们会重获自由
they had faith that one day they would be free. 他们会再见到自己的家人 朋友
They would get to see their family,their friends. 这种信念支持着他们走下去
And this faith kept them going. 同时 也就是第二个特点
At the same time,and this is the second component, 他们有着现实的信念 能对情况做出估计
they had realistic beliefs and evaluation of the situation. 如果这两点有一点没做到
If any one of these two components were missing, 他们就不大可能活下来
they were unlikely to survive. 如果他们没有信念 他们不相信他们会活下来
If they didn't have faith and they didn't believed it they would 他们很可能在恶劣的环境下死去
survive,they were very likely to die in the harsh conditions. 另一方面 如果他们认为
On the other hand,if they thought that 他们能在这年的圣诞节之前就出去
they would get out by this coming Christmas,and really 并真的相信他们能在这年的圣诞节之前离开
believed that they would get out by this coming Christmas, 他们同样也不大可能幸存
they were also less likely to survive. 因为他们这年的圣诞节没有被放出去
Because they didn't get out by this coming Christmas, 他们失望 气馁 无助
and then they were desponded,resigned,helpless, 通常情况下 他们会死去
and very often,they died. 所以关键是这两点 相信你会出去
So it was the two components,believe that you would get out, 但同时明白自己需要
but at the same time know that you need to 应对现实 残酷的现实
deal with reality and that it's tough. James Stockdale如是说
Here is what James Stockdale said, "你不能把坚信自己最终会在
"you must never confuse faith that you would prevail in the end 输不起的情形下取得胜利的信念
which you can never afford to lose 同直面现有残酷现实的行为
with the discipline to confront the most brutal facts 相混淆 无论是何种残酷现实
of your current reality whatever they might be." 现实的乐观主义
Realistic optimism. 现在的问题是你可能有时会错
Now the thing is that you may be wrong at times. 有时你可能真的相信什么
And sometimes you may really believe in something, 相信你有现实的期望
and believe it that you have realistic expectations 但没有成功
and not succeed. 但就像我们谈到的那样...我们接下来会谈到
But as we talked about...And as we'll talk about in a few minutes, 这也没太大关系
it doesn't matter that much. 因为即使没有成功 我们能很快恢复动力
Because even if we don't success we just bounce back up. 继续努力工作
And continue working hard. 而关键就是尽可能地保持平衡
The key though is as much as possible,to attain this balance. 这就是Maslow所说的高水平信念
What Maslow calls The Graceful Integration 和与现实联系间的完美整合
between high level of beliefs and connection to reality. 这个不是答案
No prescription here. 只是一个启发 让你们记在脑子里
But just a heuristic,something to keep in mind. 积极的思考不是秘密本身
Positive thinking is not THE secret. 是的 它是这个秘密的一部分
Yes,it's part of the secret. 是的 它是成功公式的一部分
Yes,it's part of the success formula. 是的 它是幸福公式的一部分 但并非全部
Yes,it's part of the happiness formula. But it's not all. 错误的乐观主义迟早意味着幻灭
False optimism sooner or later means disillusionment, 愤怒和无望
anger and hopelessness. 成功的秘密是
Here is the secret of success. 这是一个经研究证实的秘密
This is the secret proven by research. 多年对不同文化 不同地方
Thousand of years of research and successful people 不同年龄的成功人士的研究
in different cultures,in different places and in different ages. 这个秘密是乐观 热情和勤奋
It's optimism,passion and hard work. 纵观历史 你很难找到哪个成功人士
It'll be very hard for you to find successful men and women 是不具备这三个品质的
through out history who did not have all three. 乐观 信念 坚信他们能做好
Optimism,belief,faith that they can do well, 坚信他们能成功
that they can succeed. 热情 热爱他们从事的事业 并且勤奋工作
Passion,love for what they were doing. And hard work. 正如爱迪生所说 没有什么能代替勤奋
There is no substitute for hard work as Edison said. 这三个要素 就是这个秘密...很简单 很明确
These 3 components. The secret...simple,straighforward. 你们都知道 还记得我第2次课上说的么
You know it all. Remember what I said during 2nd class. 我不会教你们新的知识
I'm not going to teach you much new. 我希望使你们想起你们已经知道的知识
I hope to remind you what you already know. 乐观 热情和勤奋
Optimism,passion and hard work. 那运气是否也有作用呢? 当然了
Does luck play a role? Absolutely. Jefferson说"我非常相信运气
Jefferson,"I am a great believer in luck, 我发现我越努力工作 我的运气就越好"
and I find that the harder I work,the luckier I get." 运气背后实则也有科学奥妙
There is actually science behind luck. 你们会在《幸运要素》里读到
And you'll read about it in the Luck Factor. 在书中 拥有这三要素的人
Where people who have these 3 components, 相信自己能成功的人
who believe they can do well, 热爱自己的工作并勤奋努力的人
who love what they do and work hard, 事实上获得了更多的运气
actually find more luck. 用梭罗的话说就是不经意间有了更多的运气
In the words of Thoreau in Common Hours. 好的 那么为什么不是所有的家长都
Okay,so why don't all the parents 教我们要有高的期望呢?
teach us to have high expectations? 如果这对我们来说有好处 如果这和成功有关
If it's so good for us,if it's related to success, 和幸福 和身体健康有关的话
to happiness,to physical well-being, 为什么不是所有家长都对我们说不管你们做什么
why don't all our parents just say to us whatever we work, 你都能成功 你都做到
you can succeed,you can do it. 如果你梦想 你就能做到
If you dream about it,you can do it. 为什么父母和其他关心我们的人
Why did very often parents and people 常常要降低我们的期望呢?
who care about us lower our expectations? 因为他们关心我们的快乐水平
Because they are concerned about our happiness. 他们关心我们的自尊
They are concerned about our self esteem. 有很多种信念...人们相信
You see,there is a lot of belief...People believe that 高期望自然地会导致失望
high expectations naturally lead to disappointment. 所以...高期望导致失望
So...high expectations lead to disappointment. 这听起来是对的 这就是
And it sounds right. I mean,this is the formula that William James在19世纪写下的公式
was written in the 19th century by William James. 他说自尊等于我们的成功
He said that self-esteem is equal to 除以抱负 换言之就是 我们的成就...
our success over pretensions. In other words,our achievement... 我们有多成功 我们取得了多少除以
how much we succeed,how much we achieve over 我们假装或期望所能取得的 我们的目标
what we pretend or what we aspire to,what our goals are. 换言之 如果我们有很高的期望 很高的抱负
In other words,if we have high expectations,high pretensions, 我们就有更大的可能伤害自己的自尊
we are much more likely to hurt our self-esteem. 例如 比如说我的渴求 我的抱负
For example,let's say my aspiration,my pretension, 我的期望是一个月挣4千美元
my expectation is to make 4 thousand dollars a month. 重申一下...我只是举了个数字化的
Again this...I just throw in a numeric 例子 这样便于理解
example here because it's easier to understand. 让我们假设我的希望是一个月挣4000美元
Let's say my hope is to make 4 thousand dollars a month. 那是我的抱负
That's my pretension. 但实际上结果我一个月挣到了2000美元
But in fact what I end up making is 2 thousand dollars a month. 根据William James的公式 我的自尊
According to William James' formula,my self-esteem, 而我们都知道自尊和快乐
and as we know self-esteem and happiness 是紧密相关的
are very highly co-related and related. 我的自尊 我的快乐水平
My self-esteem,my happiness level 根据这个公式便只有一半
according to this formula is a half. 另一方面 假设我的抱负
On the other hand,let's say my pretensions, 我的期望是一个月挣1500美元
my expectation is to make 1.5 thousand dollars a month 而事实上我一个月挣了1500美元
and in fact I make 1.5 thousand dollars a month. 根据这个公式 我的自尊
According to this formula,my self-esteem, 我的快乐水平是1
my happiness level is 1. 尽管我挣的更少了
So here even though I'm making less, 我这里举的是数字化的例子
again I'm using a numeric example here, 你们可以想想其他例子
you can think about other examples. 尽管我实际上挣得少了
Even though I'm actually making less here, 我的自尊和我的快乐程度却变高了
my self-esteem and my happiness are higher. 所以要降低你的期望
So lower you expectations. 其实不尽然
Not so. 过去35年的研究发现
What was found in the last 35 years of research 这个公式实际上是错的
is that this formula is actually wrong. 情况不是这样的
That's not the case. 这才是实际的情况
Here is how it actually works. 让我们画一张图 横坐标是时间
Let's say we have a graph. And this is time. 纵坐标是我的自尊水平和快乐水平
And here is my self esteem levels and happiness levels. 让我们从我的基础水平开始 就在这里
And let's at start off around my base level which is here. 然后我参加了积极心理学的期中考试
And then I had a mid-term in Positive Psych. 我考得没有我期望的好
And I don't do as well as I expected to. 我的自尊会发生什么变化? 我的幸福会发生什么变化?
What happens to my self-esteem? What happens to my happiness? 当然它会下降 这很自然
Of course it'll go down. It's natural 我们都想成功或者说大多数人想成功
we all want to succeed or most people want to succeed. 所以如果低于我的期望它就下降了
So it goes down if it's below my expectations 但很快 如Daniel Gilbert
but very quickly as the research by Daniel Gilbert 有关有效预测的研究表明...
shows on effective forecasting... 很快我们又回到我们的基础快乐水平
very quickly we go back up to our base level of happiness. 接着一个星期后 我又考了 比如说55号数学课的期中考试
And then a week later I have another mid-term in say,maths 55. 我考得很好 比我期望的成绩还要高
And I ace it. I get much higher grade than I expected. 我的自尊和快乐曲线又会怎么变化? 它上升了
And what happens to my self-esteem and happiness? It goes up. 但然后很快它又降下来
But then very quickly it goes back down again. 然后我们假设我是12岁 我在街上走
And then let's say I'm 12 years old and I walk down 我遇到了Rena 我约她出来玩
the street and I meet Rena and I ask her out. 她拒绝了
And she says no. 我的自尊和快乐水平会发生什么变化?
What happens to my to my self-esteem and happiness? 它下降了 轻微地
It goes down. Slightly. 然后很快它又重新上升
And then very quickly it goes back up again. 然后我很幸运 我走在街上
And then lucky me. I walk down the street. 我以为我看到了Rena 但她有些不同
I think I see Rena but there is something different about her. 原来是她的孪生妹妹
And it turns out she has a twin sister. 我约她出去 她拒绝了
And I ask her out. And she says no. 再一次 发生了什么变化? 轻微地下降
And what happens once again? Slightly down. 但然后我恢复了 又再次上升
But then I recover and go back up again. 你们是不会相信的 她们是三胞胎
And you won't believe it. They are identical triplets. 我碰到了老三 她答应了
And I meet the 3rd sister and she says yes. 她说我也爱你
She says I love you too. 我的自尊和快乐水平发生了什么变化?
And what happens to my to my self-esteem and happiness? 它轻微地上升 对吧? 甚至高出了黑板
It goes up slightly right? Even taller than this. 但然后很快又下降回基础水平
But then very quickly back down to base level 如此反复 生活中的悲欢离合
and so on and so on. The vicissitudes of life... 不管我是得到了终身职位还是没得到
whether I get tenured or not tenured, 不管我买彩票是中奖了还是输钱了
whether I win the lottery or lose money. 在幸福的一个基础水平上下起起伏伏
The ups and downs around a base level of well-being. 现在有个好消息也有个坏消息
Now there is good news here and there is bad news here. 好消息是我能承担更大的风险
The good news is I can take more risks. 她拒绝我不是世界末日
It's not the end of world if she says no. 我失败了或者没能得到理想的工作
It's not the end of the world if I fail here 也不是世界末日
or if I don't get my dream job. 没有关系 我会恢复 我们都会 所以这是好消息
It's okay. I'll recover. We all do. So that's the good news. 坏消息是...我就卡在这了?
The bad news is...so I'm stuck? 我根据我的基因生来就是这个基础水平
So I was born with this base level according to my genes 并且不能提高吗?
and I can't really improve? 我如何提高这个快乐的基础水平?
How do I raise this base level of happiness? 这是可能的 我们会讲到...
And it's possible. And we'll talk about... 整个课程就是关于如何提高快乐的基础水平
the whole course is about raising the base level of happiness. 但这有一个发现
But here is one finding 是从专门针对自尊的研究中得来的
from specifically the research on self-esteem. 你下课之后马上能做的一个实验
On one thing you can do right now when you get out of class 来提高自尊 就是去面对而非逃避
to raise self-esteem and that is to cope as opposed to avoid. 去面对意味着把自己置身于风险线上
To cope meaning to put yourself on the line. 不是要你在恐慌时冒险
To take risks not when you're in your panic zone 而是在你放松时放手一搏
but when you're in your stretch zone. 去承担失败的风险 去解决 去处理
To risk failure. To handle things,to deal things, 去面对那些对你来说重要的事情
to confront things that are important to you. 参加戏剧试演 讨论时说出未曾表述出的观点
To try out for that play. To speak out in session if you haven't. 去你十分想去
To go out to a place where you really want to go 却从没去过的地方 去尝试
but never really try. To try. 因为那些经常面对问题的人有着同样
Because people who cope overtime have the same 或者有时频繁的起起伏伏
or sometimes more ups and downs. 但他们的起伏线条是这样的
But their ups and downs look like this. 依旧是起起伏伏 和普通人一样
Still ups and downs. Permission to be human. 但基础水平提高了
But the base level increases. 为什么基础水平提高了? 我将以此结束本节课
Why does the base level increase? I'm gonna end here. 为什么当我们不是逃避而是面对时
Why does the base level increase when we cope rather than avoid? 基础水平提高了? 三个原因
For 3 reason. 首先是自我知觉理论 Daryl Bem...
First self perception theory. Daryl Bem... 我不记得他是达特茅斯学院还是康奈尔大学的了
I think from either Dartmouth or Cornell... Daryl Bem指出我们得出关于自己的结论
what Daryl Bem showed was that we derived conclusion 和我们得出关于他人的结论的
about ourselves in the same way 方式是一样的
that we derived conclusion about others. 比如说看到一个人走到大家面前
So for example if I see a person going up to people 发起谈话或者在会上发言
and initiating a conversation or speaking up in session 或者去参加一出戏的试演并一次又一次地尝试
or trying out for a play and trying again and again. 我关于这个人的结论就是这人很有勇气
My conclusion about this person is this person is courageous. 这人肯定有很高的自尊
This person must have high self-esteem. 我可能也是用同样的方式
And I may derive the conclusion about myself 推出关于自己的结论
in exactly the same way. 通过观察自己某些方式的行为
By seeing myself behaving a certain way, 我会得到关于自己自尊或者
I reach a conclusion about my self-esteem 仁慈或者慷慨或者其他方面的结论
or benevolence or generosity or whatever it is. 自我知觉理论 如果我面对了 我尝试了
Self perception theory. And if I cope,if I try things out 那我就认为这是一个有勇气的人
then I see that this is a person with courage. 这是一个敢于尝试的人
This is a person who tries. And my conclusion 得到关于自己的结论就是我肯定有很高的自尊
about myself would be I must have high self-esteem. 我的自尊还有幸福水平
And my self-esteem as well as happiness level 久而久之就会上升
overtime will actually increase. 自我知觉理论
Self perception theory. 我们得出关于自己的结论
We derive conclusion about ourselves 和我们得出关于他人的结论的方式是一样的
in the same way we derive conclusion about others. 就是通过观察行为
Meaning by looking at behavior. 我们在面对失败后会意识到
When we fail after coping we realize that the actual pain 真正来自于失败的痛苦远小于我们想象的
that comes with failure is far less than the pain we imagine 我们认为与失败有关的痛苦
and that we associate with failure. 我克服失败 是的 我是没做好
I just got over it. Okay,so I didn't do well in here 或者她是拒绝了我 但我克服了
or she said no. but I got over it. 但我一直在想的话 我就会认为它将一直持续
Whereas I imagine it in my mind I think it'll last forever. 正如那些终身职位或者非终身职位的教授
Just like those tenured or not tenured professors thought 以为他们的薪水将永远不变 其实并非如此
that their pay will last forever whereas it goes away. 所以当我意识到实际上的痛苦
So when I realize the pain of actual failure is far 比和失败有关的痛苦远远要小时
less than the pain associated with failure, 我变得更自信了 我能应付了
I become more confident. I can handle it. 我实际上比自己想象中要更有适应力
I'm actually much more resilient than I thought I was. 我的自尊水平上升了
And my self-esteem increases. 我的快乐水平也随之升高
My happiness as a result increases too. 最后还有更多的成功
And finally there is more success 因为成功别无二法
because there is no other way to succeed. 学习走路没有别的方法
There is no other way in terms of learning how to walk. 在艺术上或科学上或商业上或政治上
There is no other way in terms of succeeding in art 取得成功没有别的方法
or in science or in business or in politics. 学习失败 从失败中学习 我们星期四再见
Learn to fail or fail to learn. I'll see you on Thursday. 



 Chapter 6: 逆境还是机遇？


我们今天的课
OK,so,what we're gonna do today 要把自我实现预言的信念讲完
is finish up with the beliefs of self-fulfilling prophecy lecture 并开始讲下一课 关于专注
and move on to the lecture on focus 和专注如何创造现实
and how focus creates reality. 我们上一课讲到哪里?
Where did we end last time? 我们讲到Rena和其他的一些事
We ended by talking about Rena and other things. 我们讲到模型 Dan Gilbert的模型
We talked about the model,the Dan Gilbert model, Philip Brickman模型
the Philip Brickman model, 成功或失败过后 会有大起大落
where after a failure or a success there is a spike up, 但我们会恢复过来
spike down,but then we recover. 我们一生基本沿基准的幸福发展
And we basically move along a base level of well being 其中有起伏和变迁
through out our lives,with the ups and downs,the vicissitudes. 所以问题是
The question then became, 或说有好消息也有坏消息
or rather there was good news and bad news. 好消息是 我们不必太过担心
The good news was,we don't really need to worry that much, 我们能冒更多风险 也更容易回到基准线上
we can take more risks,we can put ourselves on the line more. 失败往往 虽然不是所有的失败
Failure usually,not all failures, 往往只是使幸福水平暂时的下降
but usually is just a temporary decline in our wellbeing level, 还有自尊水平 然后会迅速回升
self esteem level,and then every quickly we jump up again. 所以这是好消息
So that's the good news. 坏消息是 如果我们总是回到原来的水平
The bad news is: if we're just around the same base level, 那我们为什么要努力寻求幸福呢?
you know,why should we put any effort into our wellbeing? 而答案
And the answer to that, 这整个课程本质上就是对它进行回答
and the whole course essentially is an answer to that. 我们如何提升基准水平?
How can we raise that base level? 一个方法是去面对 把自己置于风险之上
One of the things is coping,putting ourselves on the line. 我们这么做的原因
And the reason why coping, 是因为这样能产生积极的影响
why putting ourselves on the line yields positive 结果 幸福基准会上升
results in terms of the base level of wellbeing going up, 意思是仍然有起有落
meaning still the ups and downs, 但起伏是像这样斜线上升的
but ups and downs looking this way 而不是在一条直线上或者
as opposed to around a straight line 平行线上徘徊 我们去面对时能想象我们的行动
or a parallel line is that when we cope,we see ourselves coping, 想象自己在努力 通过自我知觉理论
we see ourselves trying and through self perception theory, 我们对自己做某种总结
we derive certain conclusions about ourselves: 我一定很勇敢
oh,I must be courageous; 我一定是自尊心强的人
oh,I must be a person who has high self esteem; 我一定是非常渴望成功的人
oh,I must be a person who has a strong desire to succeed 等等
and so on and so on. 然后我们给自己做出的结论
And then we derive conclusions about ourselves in the same way 就像我们给他人的结论一样
that we derive conclusions about other people. 这就是自我知觉理论
That is self-perception theory. 第二个原因是一旦我们经常经历失败
The second reason is that once we started failing more often, 我们会意识到那其实并不那么糟糕
we realized that actually it's not that bad, 不像我们想象的那么糟
it's not what we make it out to be. 我们脑中想象的失败的痛苦
The pain that in our minds we associate with failure 比实际的痛苦要多得多
is far greater that the actual pain of failure when that comes. 也许不是即时的 而是稍后才感受到
Maybe not initially when it happens,but after a while; 当我们恢复后 就知道我能应付它
and then we recover again,and we see,oh,I can deal with it, 我一定是一个有适应力的人
I must be a person with resilience. 最终 努力去面对后会有更多成功
And finally,there is more success as a result of coping. 学习失败 或在失败中学习
Learn to fail,or fail to learn, 成功没有其他途径
there is no other way to succeed. 我现在要说的是
So what I want to move on to now and just finish up on 我们如何变得更乐观
is how do we become more of an optimistic. 我们谈过优点 谈过长寿
So we talked about the virtues,we talked about longevity, 乐观的人实际上活得更久
people who are optimistic actually live longer. 我们谈过更高水平的成功
We talked about higher levels of success, 更高程度的快乐更能克服忧郁
higher levels of happiness,more likely to overcome depression. 乐观的人
People who are optimistic 患上忧郁的机会是八分之一
are eight times less likely to be depressed; 他们会更快乐
they are much more likely to be happy. 再说一遍 乐观是指诠释的方式
And again,optimism as an interpretation style, 而不是盲目地自我感觉良好的方式
not as a Pollyannaish feel-good kind of approach. 我们如何变得更加乐观?
So how do we become more of an optimism? 我想谈谈三个方法
I want to talk about three techniques. 首先是采取行动 尽管去做
First is to take action,to just do it, 把自己置于风险之上
to put ourselves on the line. 第二点 我要讲想象力
Second,I'm going to talk about the power of imagination, 形象化的力量 你们许多人熟悉这点
visualization,many of you are familiar with that, 尤其对运动员而言 作为一项技巧
especially athletes as,as a technique. 我们要谈论这个技巧
So we'll talk about that technique. 最后一点是认知疗法
And finally,cognitive therapy, 至少研究表明 是当今最成功的
which at least according to research,is the most successful, 最有效的治疗干预手段
most effective therapeutic intervention out there today, 我们要讲一些基本要素并进行归纳
so we'll talk about some of the basics and summarize those. 我们先说行动
So let me begin with action, 这是基于Albert Bendura的研究
this is based on research by Albert Bendura, 你们会了解到自我效能
you'll read about self-efficacy, 他的基本概念上是要有坚定的信念
his concept basically the idea of having strong believes 他将它描述得更学术化
and he just made it more academic, 更科学化 并研究了数年
more scientific and researched for many years 我们谈过自我效能的许多益处
and we talked about many benefits of self efficacy. Bendura所做的大部分工作是反对
What Bendura is coming out against in much of his work 人们称为“自尊运动”的活动
is what has become known as the self esteem movement, 或者说他反对的是
or he's coming against 被称为“感觉良好运动”的活动
what has become known as feel good movement. 所谓的 告诉小孩他们有多好
Alright,so tell a child how great they are, 他们有多棒
how wonderful they are. 每天早上站在镜子前对自己说
Standing in front of a mirror every morning and tell yourself: “你好精神”十遍 你将更成功
hi,gorgeous ten times,and then you will be more successful, 你的自尊会提升 你会变得很好
your self esteem will be high and you'll be gorgeous. 这不管用 相信我 这不管用
It doesn't work,believe me it doesn't work. 我都试过 实际上经常
I've tried everything. The thing though is that very often, 事实上长期以往会造成伤害 会伤到自尊
it actually hurts in the long term,it actually hurts self esteem 它实际伤害了那些学生的积极性
it actually hurts the motivation of students 他们经常被夸奖说"你们很棒"
who are constantly told you are wonderful, "你们都很了不起"
you are terrific no matter what. 我们会讲如何对赞扬更有辨识力
And we'll talk about how we can be more discerning with praise, 如何正确地赞扬
how we can praise in the right way 在我们过几周谈论Carol Dweck
when we talked about the work of Carol Dweck 关于心态的文章的时候
on mindsets in a few weeks. 同时Bendura表明
In the meantime,what Bendura showed, Carol Dweck表明
what Carol Dweck showed, 还有其他许多人都表明 这还不够
what many others showed was that it's not enough, 通常情况 只给你积极的言论 积极的肯定
very often,its even detrimental to just give the,you know, 无论来自外部或内部
positive,positive talk,the positive affirmation. 这甚至是有害的
Whether it comes from the outside or from the inside, 这也许其中的一部分 但不是全部
maybe part of the equation,certainly can't be all. Bendura说的是 我们需要的是行动而不是空谈
What Bendura is saying,that rather than talk,we need action. 我们对任何事都要付出努力
We need to put hard work into whatever it is, 我们想变得更自信 就需要去应对
we want to be more confident about,and we need to cope. 我们要把自己置于风险之上 很简单 为什么?
We need to put ourselves on the line. Very simple! Why? 因为努力和面对必然能获得成功
Because hard work and coping inevitably leads to success, 至少比以前
more success at least than we had before, 以前不行动 不去面对时要成功
when we didn't act and we didn't cope. 即使只是一点点成功的贡献
So even if it's a little bit,in and of itself contributes, 也有助于提高自我效能
that success contributes to our self-efficacy, 有助于增加自信 而自信反过来
to our self confidence. And then,that self confidence in turns, 反过来激励我们更努力
in turn motivates us to work harder. 我们开始更加相信自己
We started to believe ourselves more. 这是个很简单的模型 我是说任何人
Now,this is a very simple model,I mean,anyone you know, 一个五岁小孩都能做出那个模型
the five year old could draw that model. 然而考虑到对我们生活的影响
However think about the implications for our lives, 考虑到对教育的影响
think about the implications for education, 我们应该仅是对学生不停地说你们很棒
do we just tell students constantly you're terrific, 你们真厉害 还是应该像Marva Collins那样
you're wonderful,you're great,or do we like Marva Collins, 让他们努力奋斗获得更多成功
make them actually work hard so that they succeed more, 让他们想象自己回归自我概念理论
so that they see themselves going back to self conception theory, 想象自己努力奋斗
see themselves working hard, 想象自己投身其中
see themselves putting themselves on the line, 面对失败 重新站起
coping and failing,and getting up again. 它和我们身体免疫系统运作方式相同
It works also in a similar way to our physical immune system. 当我们身体不适 当我们生病时
You know when we get sick,when we get ill, 我们的身体感应到抗体
our body sense anti-bodies 我们实际上会免疫得过的病
and we actually become immune to whatever it is that we had. 我们的身体通过失败获得免疫力
So our body become immunize through failure. 在心理层面也相同 失败会被低估
Same on the psychological level,failure is underrated. 我希望你们拥有的东西之一
You know one of the things that I wish for you, 我是很真挚的
and I mean it genuinely. 希望你们能多经历失败
One of the things that I wish for you is that you fail more. 我不是随便说说 我真这么想的
I'm not saying it ingest,I really do. 另外 我希望当你们失败时
And,coupled with that,I hope that when you fail, 你们也能学习用不同的方式去诠释
you will also learn to interpret it in a different way 而不像大多数人那样诠释失败
than most of us usually interpret failure. 因为没有别的方式取得成功
'Cause there is no other way to succeed, 成长的途径只有这一条
there is no other way for growth, 像这样的生活 只是在逃避
it's an elusion that a life looks like this, 我们会继续谈这个
we will talk about it much more 当我们谈论完美主义时
when we talk about perfectionism. 健康的生活 真实的生活
A healthy life,a real life, 快乐的生活基本都看起来像这样
and a happy life ultimately looks like this, 一个带起伏的螺旋 不是一条直线
a spiral with ups and downs,not as a straight line. 当我们看到自己去面对 努力奋斗时
When we see ourselves cope,when we see ourselves work hard, 我们对自己做出结论
we derive conclusions about ourselves, 我们的自信增长 我们的动力增加
our self confidence goes up,our motivation goes up, 我们的信仰上升 等等
our belief goes up and so on and so on 以一个上升螺旋的趋势发展
in an upward spiral of growth. Soren Kierkegaard说过"勇于冒险或许会一时失足
Soren Kierkegaard: "To dare is to lose one's footing momentarily. 却步不前则会迷失自我”
Not to dare is to lose oneself." 当我们去面对 去尝试 满怀期望时
To lose one's footing temporarily is the failure 一时失足而导致失败
that comes inevitably when we cope,when we try, 不可避免 而我们不去应对 选择逃避
when we have high expectations. Not to dare is to lose oneself, 却步不前则会迷失自我
that is when we don't cope,when we avoid. 因为这个模型倒过来也成立
Because this model also works the other way around. 当我们不断地逃避挑战
When we constantly avoid challenges, 当我们总能处理好困难经历
when we constantly shone difficult experiences, 当我们不允许自己失败时
when we don't give ourselves the permission to fail, 会形成一个向下的螺旋 影响自尊
a downward spiral is created,in terms of our self esteem, 我们的成功和幸福
in terms of our success,in terms of our well being. 第二个技巧 想象成功
Second technique: imagining success. 有件事我想和你们分享
Now there's one thing I want to share with you, 要和你们分享让我有点紧张
I'm a little bit nervous about sharing it 但既然已经说开了 无论如何我都会说
but I'll do it anyway,you know,since we've opened up, 尤其上节课真是我们关系中的转折点
especially last time was a real milestone in our relationship. 我要告诉你们些事 但别告诉别人
I'm gonna to tell you something but please don't tell anyone, 尤其别告诉我的客户
you know,especially don't tell any of my clients 或将来的潜在客户
or potential clients in the future. 我演讲前会非常紧张
I get really nervous before lectures. 我会很紧张 其实对我而言
I get very nervous,in fact for me, 我无论何时站在许多观众面前
whenever I stand in front of a large audience, 心里会七上八下的
there're butterflies in my stomach. 我觉得这很难
And it's very difficult for me 我说的许多观众是指多于五人
when I talk about large audience its anything above five. 所以这是个真正的挑战
So,this is a real challenge, 当我和客户们聊天时是个挑战
it's a real challenge when I talk to clients. 这一直是一个挑战 从我决定
And this is been a challenge since the dash I decided 当一名教师的那一刻起 当我听说了
that I want to be a teacher and I decided Marva Collins的事迹时就决定成为一名老师
that I want to be a teacher when I heard Marva Collins, 我说"这就是对我的召唤" 后来我就成为了老师
and I said: this is my calling. And here is what happened then. 我曾说 "如果我在人们面前会这么紧张
I said,how can I be a successful teacher and effective teacher 我要如何成为成功而有效率的老师?"
if I get so nervous when I stand in front of an audience? 记得成功的三要素
And remember the three components of success, 成功的秘密? 是乐观和自信
the secret of success? It was optimism,believe in oneself; 是热情 热爱你所做的 还有努力奋斗
it was passion,loving what you do; and it was hard work. 我有其中两个要素
So I had two of the three components. 我非常努力 实际上我的座右铭
I worked extremely hard,in fact my motto has become, 来自Richard Hackman教授
one that I got from Professor Richard Hackman, 他是我在这里读本科时的论文导师
as my thesis advisor as an undergrad here. 他是一个非凡的教师
And,what he said,he's a phenomenal teacher, 他走进教室后会说
and what he said when he goes into a classroom is the following: 准备 再准备...然后顺其自然
prepare,prepare,prepare,and then be spontaneous. 所以我遵照他的建议 我仔细看教案
So I followed his advise,now I read over my notes, 我准备好所有教案 然后不再去想它
I have all the notes written down and then I can let go. 我准备得很充足 我很努力 没问题
So I prepare a lot,I have the hard work,not a problem. 我有热情 我爱学习
I have the passion,I love learning, 这是我职业生命中最重要的事
it's the most important thing,professionally in my life. 但我缺少第三样 缺少乐观
But I lacked the third thing,I lacked optimism, 缺少自信 我问我自己
and I lacked confidence. And then I asked myself: 我要怎样提高第三个要素
how can I raise the third components 因为这是幸福的一个重要部分
because it is important component of wellbeing, 记得对运动员的研究吗?
remember the research on athletes? 56%的成功
56% of the variance is accounted of success, 是源自乐观主义或自信
is accounted for by the sense of optimism or belief in yourself. 还记得John Carter二十年前的研究吗
Remember the John Carter study? Twenty years along 关于哈佛大学商学院毕业生的
when you look at Harvard Business School graduates, 将最成功的学生和其他人区分开的
one of the two components that 两要素之一
differentiated the most successful from the rest, 一个是相信自己 自信
one of them was belief in themselves,confidence. 这是成功的一个重要因素 而我缺少它
It's an important component of success and I lacked it. 我怎么办? 我回想到
So what did I do? I went back and thought about 打壁球时的事情
what happened when I played squash, 我的教练过去教育我要形象化
what my coaches used to teach me,and that was visualization. 我开始阅读这方面内容
And I started reading up and 我查看文献时 看到很多关于这方面的研究
when I looking at literature and there's a lot of research on it, 实际上在几世纪前宗教实践时就出现
it actually started off centuries ago in religious practices, 被东欧运动员引入到体育运动中
was brought to athletics through east European athletes 他们会想象自己 比如
who would imagine themselves,say, 在跑道上跑然后站在颁奖台上
running around the track and then standing on the podium, 领取金牌
receiving the gold medal. 越来越多的心理学家把它应用起来
And more and more psychologists started to implement it. 销售人员很有效地使用它
Sales people use it very effectively, 想象自己真的谈成了生意
seeing themselves actually striking the deal, 经历困难 去做 并获得成功
going through with it,doing it and succeeding. 那让它更有可能成为现实
And that made it much more likely to come true. 为什么?形象化背后有什么原理?
The question is why? What's the mechanism behind visualization? 为什么这么重要?为什么它这么好?
Why is it so important? Why is it so good? 为什么它这么有效?
Why is it so effective? 为什么被这么广泛而成功地使用?
Why it being used so widely and successfully? 答案归结到我们大脑的结构上
And the answer goes back to the structure of our brains. 这个研究是由心理系主任
This is research done by the head of psychology department, Stephen Kosslyn教授做的
Professor Steven Kosslyn. 他说当我们看某样东西时
What he shows was that when we see something, 比如说我现在看着我的手
so let's say I'm looking at my hand right now. 我大脑中的某些神经元被激活
There are certain neurons in my brain that are firing, 实际上记住了这只手的形状
that actually take on the shape of this hand. 我的视觉皮质 后部
My visual cortex,the back. 现在
Now, 如果我闭上眼想象我在看这只手
if I close my eyes and imagine that I'm looking at this hand, 即使它不在那 如果我想象看这只手
even if it's not here,if I imagine that I look at this hand, 相同的神经元会激活 换句话说
the exact same neurons are firing. In other words, 我的大脑无法区别
my brain does not know the difference 真实的事物和想象的事物
between the real thing and the imaginary thing. 这解释了为什么梦境会那么生动
Which explains why dreams can be so vivid, 在漆黑的深夜
n the middle of the night,pitch dark, 你正梦到中午
and you are dreaming about mid of the day, 在院子里散步
walking around the yard. 我们的想象
Our imagination, 至少对于大脑而言与现实没有区别
least for the brain is no different than the real thing. 当我想象成功时 从某种意义上说
Now,when I imagine success,what happens in a sense is 我在为大脑做一个模拟
that I'm creating a simulator for my mind. 我可以说是在欺骗大脑认为
And I'm in a sense fooling my mind into thinking 这是真的事情
that this is the real thing. 我的大脑不知道两者的区别
My mind doesn't know the difference between the two. 潜意识无法区分
Subconscious mind doesn't know the difference 真实的事物和假想的事物
between the real thing and the imaginary thing. 如果我在脑海中反复想象着成功
Now if I imagine success over and over again in my mind, 记住大脑不喜欢不一致性
remember what the mind does not like is inconsistency. 换句话说
In other words, 如果我想象着成功并坚持不懈
if I create success in my imagination and I persist with it, 不止设想一两次 而是一次又一次
not just visualize it once or twice,but over and over again, 大脑不喜欢不一致性
the mind doesn't like inconsistencies. 因此它会让外部现实
And therefore,it will bring up the external reality 和内心的想象相符
to match this internal schema. 为什么?因为大脑不知道
Why? Because the mind doesn't know 真实的事物和假想的事物间的区别
the difference in the real thing and imaginary thing. 就像Thomas
Just like Thomas, 就像Roger Bannister四分钟内跑完一英里
just like Roger Bannister run the four minutes a mile 在那之后
and after that,after that what happened was 每个人都有了和以往不同的想法
that everyone had a different schema: 四分钟跑完一英里是可能的 然后37人成功了
Oh,four minutes a mile is possible and 37 runners run it, 第二年超过300人实现了
over 300 runners run it the following year. 因为他们有了不同的想法
Because they had a difference schema: 我们可以通过场景模拟做到同样的事情
we can do exactly the same thing through the simulator. 因为大脑无法区分
Cause the mind doesn't know the difference 真实的事物和假想的事物
in the real thing and the imaginary thing. 不是总能成功
Doesn't work all the time, 不是百分之一百管用
doesn't work a hundred percent of the time, 但很多时候都很管用
but it works a great deal. 我每次演讲总要设想一下
What I do every time when I give a lecture is visualize. 我想象自己站在观众前
I imagine myself stand in front of the audience, 冷静 激动 热情
calm,excited,passionate. 当我正式开始演讲时
And then when I go into the real thing, 现在我不知道这是真的还是想象的
now I don't know if it is the real thing or I'm imaging, 但我假设这是真的
but I assume it's the real thing. 正式开始演讲时 我确实有同样的感受
When I go into the real thing,I do feel that. 我仍然会紧张 仍然会焦虑
I still get nervous,I still get anxious, 但这是健康的兴奋
but it's a healthy,excitement. 通过练习提高了我的信心和自信水平
Raising my levels of beliefs,levels of confidence by practicing, 就像一个...一个飞行员
just like a flight... a pilot,you would hope... 会希望能在模拟环境中先练习
would practice in a simulator 然后再飞越大西洋
before they take you on across the Atlantic. 思想是个模拟器 所以它能管用
The mind as a simulator,this is why it works. 关键是... 这有一个许多人都犯过的错误
The key here,this is a mistake that many people make, 无论是运动员或是...
whether it's athletics or whether it's in the, 许多关于形象化自励书籍中的记载
a lot of the self-help books that talked about visualizations. 关键是不仅仅只关注结果
The key is to focused not just on the destination, 加州大学洛杉矶分校的Shelley Taylor
Shelley Taylor,UCLA, 做了研究 把学生随机分成两组
did this research where she divided students in two random groups 一个学生想象在考试中得到A
One student imaging themselves getting an A on the exam 一遍遍地这样想象
and imagine it over and over again. 第二组想象他们得到A
The second group,imaging themselves getting an A 但也想象他们在图书馆坚持努力
but also saw themselves work and persist in the library, 为考试做准备 最后得到了A
prepare for it,and then,get to that final A. 第二组想象了过程
The second group that imaging both the journey 和结果 他们更加成功
and the destination was much more successful, 考试成绩更好
much better result in the exam. 想象过程和结果
So visualize the journey as well as the destination, 这是你们这周的作业
this is your response paper for this week, 想象你们实现目的
to visualize both your destination of getting there, 你们实现目的的过程以及目的本身
your journey of getting there,as well as the destination itself. 史上最有影响力的演讲 或者之一
Arguably,the most,or certainly one of the most influential 是马丁路德金的《我有一个梦想》
speeches of all time was Martin Luther King's I have a dream. 这个演讲我听了不下12次
I've read this speech more than dozens of times. 为什么?因为除了它很美 押韵和重要性之外
Why? Because beyond its beauty,its rhythm and its importance, 也表达了它的意图
it also captures what is means, 它的意图就是描绘出一幅成功的画面
what it means to create an image of success. 因为这是他为这个国家做的
'Cause this is what he did for this country 并为后来人所定义的远景
and defined generations to come. 因此首先 我想从中摘录几句
So first of all,I want to read some excerpts from it. 是对一个更美好的未来的想象
It is about visualizating a better future, 他说得很明确 没有隐藏
and he says it explicitly,doesn't hide it. "我有一个梦想 朋友们 今天我对你们说
He says: "I have a dream,I say to you today my friends, 在此时此刻 我们虽然遭受种种困难和挫折
so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow 我仍然有一个梦想
I still have a dream. 这个梦想是深深扎根于美国的梦想中的"
It is a dream deeply rooted in the America dream." 这都是关于想象
This is all about imagination, 但通过想象他创建了更好的现实
but through the imagination he created a better reality. 看他如何谈论这个过程
Look at how he talks about the process; 他不是仅仅谈到结果
he doesn't talk just about the outcome: 我们希望最后达到平等
we want equality at the end. 他谈的是我们如何获得这个结果
He talks about how we will get to this outcome. 让我读几句摘录的句子
So let me read you a couple of excerpts: "现在绝非侈谈冷静下来
"This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off 或服用渐进主义的镇静剂的时候"
or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism." 多优美 我是说 他这里说的是
How beautiful! I mean,what he's saying here is, 我们别只坐着等待
let's not just sit here and wait 想象会发生的事情
and imagine that things will happen, 让我们做些事情 让我们也着眼于过程
let's do something,let's also have a process. 他明确地说
And he says explicitly: "在争取合法地位的过程中
"In the process of gaining our rightful place, 我们不要采取错误的做法"
we must not be guilty of wrongful deeds." 这里他在提建议 提议
So here he's talking about advice,of suggestions,advice, 这个过程中什么该做 什么不该做
what we should and shouldn't do along the way. "我们斗争时必须永远举止得体
"We must forever conduct our struggle 纪律严明 我们不能容许
on the high play of dignityand discipline. We must not allow 我们的具有崭新内容的抗议蜕变为暴力行动"
our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence." 他在描述一个过程
He's describing a process. "我们要不断地升华到
"Again and again,we must rise to the majestic heights 以精神力量对付物质力量的崇高境界中去"
of meeting physical force with soul force." 我们要做的另一件事
Another thing that we need to do 当我们想象成功时 尽可能逼真点
when we imagine success is to make is as real as possible 尽量使人有所感受 为什么?
by involving as many senses as we can. Why? 因为感受越真实
Because the more senses we can imagine, 我们的大脑就越相信这是真实的
the more our mind is fooled to believe that it is the real thing. 再次 马丁路德金这点上也做得非常漂亮
Once again,Martin Luther King does this beautifully. 让我读几句摘录的句子
Let me read you a few excerpts: "我们将来也不满足 除非正义和公正犹如江海之波涛
"We will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters 汹涌澎湃 滚滚而来"
and righteousness like a mighty stream." 你们能感受到那江海波涛
I mean,you can feel the water,you can feel that stream, 你们能看到 能想象到
you can see it,you can visualize it. "我们不要为了满足对自由的渴望
"Or,let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom 而抱着苦味和仇恨之杯痛饮"
by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred." 他引入了味觉 苦味等同于仇恨
He's employing test,bitterness,equaling with hatred. 人们会联想到它 让它真实 具体化
People connect to it,making it real,concrete. "有朝一日 阿拉巴马州的黑人男孩和女孩
"One day right there in Alabama little black boys and black girls 将能与白人男孩和女孩情同骨肉
will be able to join hands with 携手并进"
little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers." 你能想象到孩子们手拉手围成圈
I mean,you can see that circle of the kids holding hand, 再次让它变得真实 你可以想象到 看到它
again making it real,you can visualize it,you see it. 顺便说下 这是所有著名演讲的特征
By the way,these are the characteristics of all great speeches. 它们不是抽象的
They are not abstract, 看看那"伟大的沟通者"罗纳德里根
look at the great communicator Ronald Reagan. 看肯尼迪
Look at Kennedy. 他们演讲很精彩 因为他们创造了一幅图画
They gave amazing speeches because they created a picture, 他们利用了感官 创造了一幅成功的画面
they involve the senses,they created a picture of success. "我梦想有一天 甚至连密西西比州
"I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, 这个正义匿迹 压迫成风
a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, 如同沙漠般的地方
weltering with the heat of oppression will be transformed 也将变成自由和正义的绿洲"
into an oasis of freedom and justice." 你真的能感受到那种酷热
You can actually feel the heat, 你真的能感受到他描述的那种汗如雨下的感觉
you can actually feel the sweat that he's describing. 这描绘出了一幅好的 成功的画面
This is what makes good,successful images. 这让演讲变得很精彩
This is what makes great speeches. 最后 要唤起情绪
And finally,it's about evoking emotions. 你不想只是做一个认知练习
You don't want just make it cognitive exercise, 你要对自己正在做的感到非常兴奋
you wanna really be excited about what you are doing, 否则将会失败 什么都没有改变
or else it will fall flat. Nothing,no change will happen. 这些词语间的联系 情感和行动
Again,the connection between the words emotion and motion: 没有情感就没有行动
without emotion,there is no motion. 如果你想让自己或别人行动起来
If you want to move yourself or others, 你得引起情感共鸣
you need to evoke emotions. 让我们稍微看看那段历史性的演讲
Let's look at,just a minute,of that historical speech. "让自由之声响彻每个山岗
"From every mountain side,let freedom ring! 如果美国要成为一个伟大的国家 这个梦想必须实现
And if America is to be a great nation,this must become true. 所以
And so 让自由之声从新罕布什尔州的巍峨的崇山峻岭响起来
let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire. 让自由之声从纽约州的崇山峻岭响起来
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York. 让自由之声从宾夕法尼亚州的阿勒格尼山脈上响起来
Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania 让自由之声从科罗拉多州冰雪覆盖的落基山响起来
Let freedom ring from the snow-capped Rockies of Colorado. 让自由之声从加利福尼亚州蜿蜒的群峰响起来
Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slopes of California. 不仅如此
But not only that: 还要让自由之声从佐治亚州的石岭响起来
Let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia. 让自由之声从田纳西州的了望山响起来
Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee. 让自由之声从密西西比的每一座丘陵响起来
Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi. 让自由之声从每一片山坡响起来
From every mountainside,let freedom ring. 当这成真 我们使自由之声响彻时
And when this happens,when we allow freedom ring, 当我们让自由之声从每一个大小村庄
when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, 每一个州和每一个城市响起来时 我们将能够加速
from every state and every city,we will be able to speed up 这一天的到来 那时 上帝的所有儿女 黑人和白人
that day when all of God's children,black men and white men, 犹太教徒和非犹太教徒 基督教徒和天主教徒
Jews and Gentiles,Protestants and Catholics, 都将手携手 合唱一首
will be able to join hands and sing 古老的黑人灵歌
in the words of the old Negro spiritual, "终于自由啦！终于自由啦！
"Free at last! Free at last! 感谢全能的上帝，我们终于自由啦"
Thank God Almighty,we are free at last!" 我看过十几遍 每次看都很激动
I've seen this as I said dozens of times,every time excitement. 假想你最后说 终于自由啦 终于自由啦
Imagine if you said at the end: Free at last! Free at last! 全能的上帝 终于自由啦 有同样效果吗
God Almighty,free at last! Would that have the same effect? 无聊 枯燥 你必须引发情感来创造行动
Boring,dry,you have to evoke emotions to create motion, 不论是在想象中或是对全国人演讲
whether is in our imagination or in a speech to the nation 另一个技巧 另一个我要说的技巧
Another technique...Another technique that I'd like to talk about, 第三个技巧 第一个是 努力行动起来
the third technique. So the first one was: work, 投入其中 去面对
put yourself on the line,cope,invest. 第二个 使用想象力
The second: use your imagination, 使用思想的模拟器
use the simulator that you have right here, 一个我们所知的最强大的模拟器
one of the most if not the most powerful simulator we know of. 第三是 认知疗法
The third is cognitive therapy. 认知疗法已被成功地运用四十多年
Cognitive therapy has been used very successfully over the last, Martin Seligman是认知疗法的
over forty years,Martin Seligman was one of the founders 创始人之一
of the cognitive therapy approach. 他和Beck一起做研究
He studied with,with Beck, Beck是这技巧的正式创始人
who was the official founder of this technique in this approach. 认知疗法的内容如下
And what cognitive therapy is about is the following. 它的基本前提是思想驱动情感
Its basic premise is that thoughts drive emotion. 比如 外部发生一件事
So for example: there is an external event. 我感知到那件事
I perceive that event, 我感知那件事后的行动是
and what I do then after I perceive that event, 对那事进行评估
there is evaluation of that event, 也就是对那件事进行思考
in other words,a thought about that event. 思考后就唤起了情感
And then,as a result of that thought,that evokes an emotion. 比如 事件 有只狮子向我奔来
So for example,an event,a lion is running toward me, 我的评估 天 它要吃掉我
my evaluation: oh my god,he's gonna eat me. 引发的情感是恐惧 然后自然就导致行动
The emotion: fear,and that of course leads to motion, 逃跑或勇敢地和狮子搏斗
run away or stand up bravely and fight the lion. 或另一个例子 一个事件
Or,another one: I see an event, 一个美女在街上走 我的评估
a gorgeous woman walking down the street,my evaluation: 是我的漂亮太太 引发的情感是爱
oh,it's my gorgeous wife,and the emotion:love. 事件 评估 思考 情感
Event,evaluation,thought,emotion, 然后导致行动
and then that leads to action. 认知疗法认为如果我们想改变情感
What cognitive therapy says is that if we want to change emotions 无论是忧郁或焦虑
whether it's of depression,whether it's of anxiety, 我们要干预的是
where we need to intervene is here, 评估和想法层面
is that the level of evaluation and the level of thought. 如果能改变这个 我们的情感也随着改变
And if we can change that,we also change our emotion. 特别地 认知疗法认为
Specifically,what cognitive therapy saying is that 我们要恢复理性意识
we need to restore sense of rationality, 我们要恢复真实 当然这不是说
we need to restore the real,it's certainly not saying, 比如 我有
let's say I have a,you know, 一个非常重要的试镜 我很紧张
a very important try out coming up and I get nervous. 认知疗法不是说停止紧张
Cognitive therapy is not saying stop feeling nervous, 我们改变你的评估 或你的想法
let's change your evaluation or your thoughts, 因为那是自然的 又或者我站在狮子面前
because that's natural or I stand in front of a lion. 感到害怕是自然的 重要的 健康的体验
It's natural,it's important,it's healthy to experience fear. 但是
But 它说的是我们的想法有时是荒谬的
what it is saying is that sometimes our thoughts are irrational, 我们上节课提到过 比如
and we'll mention that last time,for example, 我有一次考试成绩不好
I don't do well on one test 我立刻认为自己很笨
and immediately I classified myself as stupid 或认为我考试永远不会取得好成绩
or the fact that I will never succeed in tests again. 或者 我约别人出去 被拒绝了
Or,you know,I asked someone out and he says no, 突然觉得没有人需要我
and suddenly nobody wants me. 这个事件引发一个荒谬的想法
That event led to an irrational thought, 对情景的荒谬评估
irrational evaluation of the situation. 那只是一次性的 短暂的失败
It was just once,it was temporary, 而那会引发不好的情感 比如放弃
and that led to difficult emotions such as resignation: 没人会再需要我了
nobody will ever want me again. 而认知疗法做的是恢复理性
And what cognitive therapy does is just restore 通过说“是的 这很伤人 很痛苦”
that rationality by saying: yeah,it hurts,it's tough, 但你知道 哈佛还有3200个其他男人
but,you know they are,what? 3200 other men at Harvard. 认知疗法极其有效
Cognitive therapy has been shown to be extremely effective, 比其他干预手段都更有效
more effective than any of the other intervention, 虽然它对于
the jury still out 极端棘手的精神病理学病例不太管用
when it comes to extreme cases of psychopathology, 但对于大多数精神病理学病例 多数的焦虑症状
but in terms of most psychopathologies,most anxiety, 多数的忧郁症状 它已经被证明是最成功的
most depression,it has been shown to be the most successful, 且起效最快的方法 它不仅有用
and it works the fastest. Not the only thing that works, 而且最有效 最迅速
but it works the best and much more promptly 相对其他干预而言
than the other interventions. 总体上 不是人人有效 但大多数有效
On the whole,not right for everyone,but for most people. 最后 这是我们能学会的重要的内容
And finally,and this is the important thing we can learn it. 我们提过
So we talk about right? 五年的剑桥-萨默维尔研究失败了
The five-year Cambridge Somerville study that failed. Karen Reivich在一个两周的项目中
Well,Karen Reivich teaches these cognitive skills 教授这些认知技巧
in a two week program. 那个两周的项目旨在帮助市中心的
And that two week program helps kids in inner cities, 危险人群中的孩子们
at risk population, 降低陷入忧郁和吸毒困境的可能性
reduce the likelihood of falling into the trap of depression, 增加幸福的可能性
of drug abuse,increases the likelihood of wellbeing 这个为期两周的认知疗法或技巧的课程
and success in the long term just as a result 结果在长远看来是成功的
of two weeks teaching them cognitive therapy or these techniques, 所以这是可以学到的技能
so it's an accquired skill 这就是重要之处
and this is the important thing about it. 不是说很容易
That doesn't mean its easy, 不是说你听了一次课
doesn't mean you're just gonna hear a lecture now for the, 下面的十分钟我要讲一些概念
the next ten minutes I'm gonna describe some of the ideas 就能改变你的生活 你要运用它
and that's gonna change your life. You need to apply it, 你们将要把它运用到之后两节
and you are going to apply it in the next two, 之后两节课中 但你们要做的更多
next two classes,but you need to do more than that. 我给你们讲下认知疗法的概要
So let me share with you a summary of cognitive therapy 这三个M是首字母缩写
and this...the 3Ms is my acronym. 我所做的是从本质上把
And what I did there was to put together essentially the work 我刚提到的Karen Reivich的成果
of Karen Reivich whom I just mentioned, Martin Seligman的成果
the work of Martin Seligman, Seligman的老师Aaron Beck的成果
the work of Aaron Beck Seligman's teacher 还有David Burns的成果 你们也许有人知道他
and the work of David Burns. Some of you may heard of him, 《好心情手册》的作者 也是Aaron Beck的学生
The Feeling Good Handbook,who is also a student of Aaron Beck. 把他们的成果结合起来
So this is putting together their work 成为三个M 每个M有二个建议
into 3Ms subdivided each into 2 suggestions. 你们会看到它们互相有联系
They're inter connected as you'll see. 区别不怎么明显 但你们会注意到
It's not a very clear distinction. However what you'll notice is 你们总能联系上三M中的一两个
you could usually relate to one or two of the 3Ms. 在你们行动之前先问自己
Things that you do yourself. So beyond the lookout ask yourself: “我在哪处扭曲了事实?
"Where do I distort the reality? 我在评估方面 或者
Where do I have distortion in terms of evaluation? 想法方面哪里歪曲了事实?”
In terms of my thought?" 导致了某些不必要的消极情绪
That lead to certain negative emotions that are unnecessary, 因为如果我恢复理性
because if I restore rationality 我就感觉不到同样程度的情感
I will not feel the same emotion to the same degree. 所以当你们学习三个M的时候问自己
So ask yourself when you look through the 3Ms. 三个M指的是非理性想法的三个陷阱
The 3Ms...essentially the 3 traps of irrational thoughts. 第一个是放大
The first one is magnifying. 就是夸大发生的事情 比如
It's exaggerating something that happens. For example, 归纳法是天生的本能
you know induction is something very natural. 一个孩子看到这个 会叫它凳子
A kid sees this and will call it a stool 然后他们在酒吧看到另一张凳子
and then they see another stool in the bar 当他们一岁时出去
when they go out at the age of one 再看到另一张凳子 看过20张凳子后
and then they see another stool. After they see 20 stools 开始形成一个观念 认为这东西就是凳子
they begin to form a concept they induce that this is a stool. 现在他们看到一张
And now they see one even one 以前从没见过的凳子 他们也知道是它什么
that they have never seen before they know what it is. 就像我看见一个人在街上
Just like I see a person in the street 以前从没见过他 我知道这是个人
whom I never encounter before I know this is a person, 因为我从其他发生过的事件中
because I induce from all the other events 归纳出这个也是一个人
that happened before that this is also a person. 这就是归纳法 是健康的 重要的
So that's induction. That's healthy. That's important. 我们就是这样形成观念和语言的
That's how we develop concepts and language. 但有时我们做得过头 归纳过度了
But sometimes we take this too far and we over generalize. 比如 我期中考成绩很差
Once again,I did poorly on the midterm...conclusion, 归纳为 我不聪明 我不能成功
generalization: I'm just not smart. I just can't succeed. 这个学生就是归纳过度了 他的评估
Here is a student. Over generalization,the evaluation, 他的想法是非理性的
the thought,irrational. 或他拒绝了我 因此大家都会拒绝我
Or he just said no to me. Everyone is gonna say no. 而不是实事求是地说 "看看周围
instead of being realistic and saying,"wow,just look around. 1504课堂上还有有很多帅哥"
There are so many wonderful and sensitive and caring men in 1504" 另一件事我们经常讨论的是
So,another thing this is something we'll talk about a lot... 全有或全无态度
the All or Nothing approach. The All or Nothing... 我们会在讲完美主义时讨论它
we'll talk about it when we talk about perfectionism. 它是把失败小题大做
It's catastrophizing failure, 而不是把失败当做一次机遇
not seeing failure as an opportunity, 一个跳板 而是视之为世界末日
as a stepping stone but seeing it as the end of the world. 我大一时得了B 现在要无家可归了
I got a B as a freshman. Now I'm going to be homeless. 永远找不到工作 全有或全无
Not finding a job ever. All or Nothing. 要么全是A 要么就是彻底的失败
Either straight As or complete failure. 我们会多次提及它
We'll talk about that a lot. 因为这是阻止我们去面对的一个关键要素
Because it's one of the key elements that prevents us from coping 阻止我们投入进去
from putting ourselves on the line. 它的另一面
The other side of it, 同一个硬币的另一面 是极小化
which is actually other side of the same coin is minimizing. 这是我经常做的
This is something I do very often. 这是我仍要警惕的陷阱
This is my trap that I still have to be aware of, 我至今仍会考虑
I still think about today, 虽然我几年前就注意到它了
even though I became aware of it years ago. 直到现在我才能够迅速醒觉自己在这么做
Only now I catch myself doing it much promptly. 极小化的第一个概念是
So the first idea of minimizing is Karen Reivich称之为“隧道视野”
what Karen Reivich calls tunnel vision. 比如 我的课堂里有620个学生
For example,let's say I have 620 students in my class. 620个中618个在看教材
And out of these 620 students 618 are engaged in the material. 一个在看天花板 在看灯
One is looking at the ceiling,at the lights. 620个中的另外一个在睡觉
And another one,out of the 620 students,is asleep. 隧道视野指的是当我关注那个睡觉的人
Tunnel Vision is when I focus on that one person who is asleep. 对自己说
And I say to myself, “我的课肯定讲得让人无聊 犯困”
" Wow,I'm giving boring,sleep inducing lectures." 或反过来 620个学生中618个睡着
Or the other way around: I have 620 students,618 are asleep. 一个在开小差 一个听得十分入迷
One is looking around. And one is going "wow!" 我只关注那个人 我说我是个好讲师
and I only focus on that person and I say I'm a great lecturer. 我非常受鼓舞
I'm so inspiring. 然而不管怎样这都是不现实的
Again,it's unrealistic. One way or the other. And 认知疗法把现实主义引入这个等式
what cognitive therapy does is bring realism into the equation. 我也经常因此而困扰
Again this is something I often fall into. 我最近刚遇到这个情况
And just recently I fell into this. And it happened... 你们许多人看过Jon Stewart脱口秀
I know many of you saw the Jon Stewart show. 在Jon Stewart脱口秀中 他讲得太快
So what happened in the Jon Stewart show...he was so fast, 对我而言超级快 我感觉就像落后了两拍
way too fast for me...I felt like I was 2 questions behind 还在深思和考虑着两个之前的问题
still contemplating and thinking and saying “这会是个很有趣的研究”
"well,this could be interesting research." 而Jon已经领先了10步
And Jon was...he was already 10 steps ahead. 我落后了 感觉很迟钝
So I fell behind and I felt slow. 我也说了些后来让自己后悔的话
And I also said something that I later regretted. 只是一句话
It was just one sentence. 没什么大不了的 但我专注在这上面
No big deal. But that is what I focus on. 我后来飞回家 飞回以色列
You know I flew home after. I went back to Israel. 在飞机上我一直在想这事
The whole flight that what I was thinking of. 忽略了其他的事情
Ignoring the other things. Jon Stewart脱口秀完了后二小时
You know the fact that 2 hours after the Jon Stewart show, 这本书成了最畅销书 我完全忽略了这个
the book became a best seller. Completely ignore that. 我根本没去考虑那
Didn't exist as far as I was concerned. 我一直在想那句话 我怎么会说出来的?
It was just that one sentence. How could I say it? 为什么没有更好的准备? 等等
Why didn't I prepare for it better? And so on. 然后我突然说"等一下" 隧道视野
And then I suddenly said," Hey,wait a minute!" Tunnel Vision. 我把它缩小了 我把视野扩大
And I zoomed out. I looked at the bigger picture. 然后我说”我说了一句让我后悔的话 超赞啊”
Then I said,"okay,so I said something that I regret. Big deal." 这是喜剧 很有趣 许多人在看
You know. It's comedy. It's fun. So many people, 你的许多朋友都看过 都很喜欢
so many of your friends have watched and enjoyed it. 这是个很好的机会 我看到了更大的方面
It was a great opportunity. I looked at the bigger picture. 允许自己做回一个人
Gave myself the permission to be human. 会感到后悔 但从总体上
To regret it.But then overall, 我能用比以前更理性的目光看待它
I could see it in a much more rational light than before. 像我说的 我仍然在用这些想法
Big dealSo again,as I said,I still apply...I still use these ideas. 过去
In the past, 我可能要花几个月才不会想这句话
it would take me months to get over this one sentence. 但是现在 视野变窄 评估想法 非理性的影响
Whereas now,zoom out. Evaluation thought,irrational. 能更迅速地恢复
And recover much more promptly. 消除积极或者消极的影响
Dismissal of positives or negatives. So the person 有隧道视野的人不会去留意其他618个
who has tunnel vision doesn't see the other 618 people 专心听课或睡觉的人
who are engaged or asleep. 忽视了积极面的人看到那些
The person who dismiss the positives see those 但说他们不重要 它们很微不足道
but says they're unimportant; they are trivial in comparison to 比起我的失败或我做的错事 比如
how I just failed or what I just did wrong. So for example, 我经常会遇到的一个困境
and this again,something that I...a trap that I often fall into. 我大四时申请了奖学金
When I was a senior,I applied for fellowships 我得到去剑桥的奖学金
and I got a fellowship to go to Cambridge. 我得的是John Elliot奖学金
And I got the John Elliot Fellowship. 剑桥有四个奖学金
And there are 4 fellowships that go to Cambridge: John Elliot和Fiske 还有Pembroke
the John Elliot,the Fiske,um...one other...Pembroke; 还有一个是John Harvard奖学金
then there is the John Harvard fellowship. 我得到了John Elliot奖学金 四个之一
So I got the John Elliot,one of the 4. 我得到后不久 我就得到消息了
Immediately when I got it,I know that I got it obviously. 并不是我无视了它
It wasn't that I was ignoring it. 但我想为什么没能得到John Harvard奖学金
But then I said why didn't I get the John Harvard fellowship. 它们之间除名字不同外没任何区别
Now there is no difference between them except for the names. 但那是我的脑袋里立刻想到的
But that's immediately what my mind went to. And that, 对我而言是很重要的经历 因为我说
that was very important experience for me because I said “看看你” 我在那个时候开始意识到
"wow,look at you. "and that's when I started to recognize 我们的评估的重要性和威力
the importance and the power of our evaluation. 它是怎样决定或甚至毁掉
And how that can determine or even ruin 本该是一件值得庆祝的事
what should have been a celebration. 但一旦我们认识它 一旦了解它后
But once we recognize it,once we understand it, 我们可以怀疑它 可以质疑它
we can dispute it. We can challenge it. 可以重组它 也能看到积极的一面
We can reframe it and see the positive as well. 此外 认知疗法就是要我们实际点
Again,all it's saying in cognitive therapy is let's be real. 第三个M是虚构 或称捏造
Making up or fabricating the 3rd M. 这是我们无中生有的时候
This is when we create something ex nihilo,from nothing. 比如 我们个人化或者归咎他人
So for example,we personalize it or we blame. 被虐待的人身上经常能看到这点
We see this very often with people who are abused. 受虐待的妻子经常会说
So an abused wife will very often say “是我做的 我的错 我做的不对”
"It's my doing. It's my fault. I'm not behaving appropriately." 而不是理智地说
Instead of rationally saying “这个家伙虐待我 我要离开”
"This guy is abusive. I'm out of here." 那是不理性地个人化
That's irrational personalization. 它也会有别的方式
It can also be the other way around. 我有次考试成绩很差
You know,I just did poorly on an exam 我因此责怪我男朋友或女朋友
and I blame my boyfriend or girlfriend for it. 那也是不现实的 我得承担责任
That's also unrealistic. I need to take responsibility. 要记住Nathaniel Branden的例子 没有人会来
You got to remember Nathaniel Branden. No one is coming. 承担起责任而不是责备别人
Take responsibility rather than blame. Marva Collins和她的学生交流的
One of the key ideas (that) 重要的观点之一
Marva Collins communicates to her students. 不是过度个人化
So again,it's not going to the personalizing...over-personalizing 或过度责备 而是面对现实
or over-blaming,it's being real. 最后是情感的推理
And finally,emotional reasoning. 我满怀妒嫉 因此我肯定是个坏人
I am envious; therefore I must be a bad person. 或我在试镜前
Or I'm experiencing danger 遇到了危险 所以肯定很危险
before a tryout therefore it must be dangerous. 选取一种情绪 让它成为现实
Taking an emotion and making it into reality 而不是把情感只当做情感
whereas instead of understanding an emotion is an emotion, 不必符合现实
it doesn't necessary capture reality, 而是我对现实的评估
it is my evaluation of reality. 或者 我非常害怕失败 因此
Or,I'm extremely scared of failing...and therefore... 意味着失败是很危险的
it means that failing it's really dangerous, 实际不是的 我会马上回到这个话题
while in fact it's not. I'll get back up again very quickly, 所以要有正确的评估
so it's having the correct evaluation, 更正轨迹 更正这些错误
correcting for the track,correcting for these errors. 更正"我很平庸
Or feeling that, 心理学或数学我学不好"之类的想法
I'm second-rate and I'm no good in psychology or maths, 因为我有那种感觉 我的评估就是
and because I feel that,my evaluation of it is,well, 我肯定真的很平庸 学不好
I must really be second-rate and no good, 而不是理性的想法 让我试一下
instead having the rational belief of,well,let me try out, 看看事情会怎么样 更正扭曲的想法
let me see how things go,correcting the distortions. 再说一次 关键是真实化
The key,once again,is to get real. 我们如何通过我们的提问变真实?
How do we get real through the questions that we ask? 我在这要给你们举几个例子
I am going to give you just a few examples here; 你们要自己去练习
you are going to practice with those on your own. 这些是其中几个
But here are just some of them. 首先 我的结论和现实相关吗?
First of all,is my conclusion tied to reality? 第二 那合理吗? 它们是相关联的
Second,is it rational? They are interconnected. 我忽略了什么重要的事吗?
Am I ignoring something important? 比如 之后那本书销量很好
Like the fact that---you know the book did well afterwards--- 比如1504教室还有别的男孩 等等
like the fact that there are other cool guys in 1504,and so on. 什么重要的迹象
What important evidence 是我需要考虑的?
do I still need to take into consideration? 进行辩论 举出证据 现实化
This is about disputing,it's evidence,it's get real. 但小心别只是进行几何形状的扩大
Look out,don't just zoom in on the geometric shapes, 公交车上还有孩子
there are also children on the bus. 这是这些问题做的 让我们放开思绪
And this is what questions do. They open us up, 它们打开我们的视野 创造现实
they open our vision and they create in your reality. 我夸大了什么?我在贬低什么?
What am I magnifying? What am I minimizing? 我陷入困境了吗?
Am I falling into the traps? 我忽略了什么进展很顺利的事吗?
Am I ignoring anything that is going well? 我忽略什么进展不顺的事吗?
Am I ignoring anything that is not going well? 这不是不计代价地盲目乐观
It's not about Pollyanna feel good at all costs, 是要联系现实 最终缩小范围
it's about being tied to reality. And finally,let me zoom out. 大的画面是什么
What is the big picture. 结论是 Ed Diener和Martin Seligman
To conclude,Ed Diener and Martin Seligman 对幸福无比的人们做了重要研究
did very important research on extremely happy people. 这是对高端的研究
This is tip of the stamp research. 看那些百分之十最幸福的人
Looking at the 10 per cent of the happiest people out there, 我们能从他们那里取经
people that we can learn from. 他们的研究结果很有趣
And what they found was very interesting. 首先 这些人经历痛苦
First of all,these people did not experience painful emotions 不比其他人少
any less times than the rest of the people, 比如最不幸福的10%或中间的10%
say the bottom 10 per cent or the mid 10 per cent. 他们经历过痛苦
They experience painful emotions, 他们与剩下的人之间的区别是
the difference between them and the rest was that they recovered 由于不同的诠释 他们恢复得更迅速
more promptly as a result of different interpretations. 所以他们沮丧时 他们很乐观 不说
So when they felt down,they were optimistic instead of saying “这个月剩下的日子我都会沮丧”
"ok,so I'm going to feel down for the rest of the month", 他们说“我很沮丧 没什么大不了”
they said "ok,so I'm feeling down,big deal. 我能从中学到什么?发生了什么?
What can I learn from it? What happen? 我怎样让自己感觉好点?
How can I make myself feel better?" 然后他们比悲观者恢复得更快
And then they recovered more promptly than the pessimists, 悲观者会沮丧很长一段时间
the people who remained depressed for a much longer time. 事件发生 世上有很多事发生
You see,events happen,things happen in the world, 经常不受我们的控制
very often out of our control. 我们不能创造所有遇到的事物
We don't create everything that we encounter. 有些事件是不好的 有些是消极的
And some of the events are bad,some are negative. 更重要的是我们之后怎样对待它们
What matters more is what we do with them after, 怎样评估它们 事实上
how we evaluate them. And what happens is that 我们的评估成了自我实现预言
our evaluation becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, 因为悲观者会说"我现在心情不好
because a pessimist will say "I'm in a bad mood now, 会持续很长时间
it's going to last for a very long time, 不会消失" 而乐观者会说
it's not going to go away",whereas an optimist says "这是暂时的 会消失的"
"it's temporary,it's going to go away" 并相信我们的自我实现预言
and believes our self-fulfilling prophecies. 如果我认为它会持续六个月
If I believe that it will last for six months, 它更有可能 不一定
it's much more likely,not necessarily, 但更可能持续六个月
but it's much more likely to last for six months 比我说“那也会过去的”
than if I say "that too shall pass". 我们对待信仰的方式
And what we do with our beliefs 是造一个向下的忧伤沮丧的螺旋
is we create a downward spiral of depression,unhappiness, 或一个向上的拥有积极情绪的螺旋
sadness or an upward spiral,capitalizing positive emotions 并越来越多
and having more and more of them, Barbara Fredrickson所说的
what Barbara Fredrickson talks about “扩大和构造”现象大部分取决于我们自身
the "broaden and build" phenomenon. A lot of it is up to us. 没有捷径 通往幸福 成功
There are no short cuts. There are no easy steps to wellbeing, 和自身更高水平的信念的道路并不容易
to success,to high level of beliefs in ourselves. 那需要付出和努力 无论是形象化
It takes work,it takes effort,whether it's work visualizing, 还是努力奋斗和积极面对
whether it's hard work and coping, 或是学习如何消除非理性思想
or whether it's work learning to dispute irrational thoughts. 并不是弄明白一次
And it's not enough to just understand it once 然后就一劳永逸
and then we are all set, 我们一生都必须持续努力
we are all inoculated for the rest of our lives. 如果你想继续努力
If you want to continue working, 我们必须一直致力其中
we have to continue working at it. 下个内容 讲"关注"的问题
Let me move on...And talk about the question of "focus". 因为我们关注某一要素
Because just like if we focus on specific element 或事件与否 有很大的区别
of an event or not makes a difference, 它对我们整个生命的宏观层面有巨大影响
it applies on the macro level to our entire life. 我现在要进行详细的阐述
What I am going to do now is elaborate, 对一些我们经常讨论的
go up higher level of the spiral of understanding and learning, 关于某事的理解和学习螺旋进行更高层次分析
of something that we have talked about time and again. Ed Diener 我刚提到他的研究
Ed Diener,who is also,I just mentioned his research, 他也是国际积极心理学协会的
he is also the president,first president 第一任会长
of the International Positive Psychology Association, 他来自伊利诺州 经过多年研究 他发现
he's from Illinois. After years of research,concludes, 对幸福而言 人们感知世界的方式
it appears that the way people perceive the world 比客观环境更重要
is much more important to happiness than objective circumstances. 如果你想一下的话 很有道理
Now if you think about it,that makes a lot of sense. 我们认识许多看起来拥有一切的人
We know a lot of people who seemingly have everything, 无论是财富 或很好的朋友或家人
whether it's wealth,whether it's wonderful friends and family, 他们的梦想都已成真 但仍很痛苦
all their dreams have come true,and they are still miserable. 而有些人拥有的很少
While there are people who have very little, 经历了一次次困境
who have experienced hardship after hardship 而从没停止为生活感到欢庆 还有些人
and who never cease to celebrate life. Then there are people 他们拥有一切并很感激这一切
who have everything going for them and really appreciate it, 不觉得理所当然 他们很快乐 有些人
don't take it for granted and are happy. And there are people 拥有的不多 永远都在抱怨
who don't have much and never cease to complain. 换句话说 不只是内在的...抱歉
In other words,it's not just the internal or...sorry, 重要的不只是外在
it's not just the external that matters, 更重要的是内在
what matters more is the internal. 幸福不是取决于我们的处境
Happiness is not contingent on our status, 或我们银行账户里的金额
or the state of our bank account, 更依赖于我们的思想状态
it's much more dependent on our state of mind, 依赖于我们选择关注什么
on what we choose to focus on. 因为我们的感情
Because our emotions are determined 由外部和内部状况一起决定
by external circumstances as well as internal, 如何去诠释很重要 比如
interpretation matters. For example, 看爱迪生如何对待5000次的失败
look at what Edison did,5,000 failures to the external observer, 对他而言 评估和常人不同
for him the evaluation was very different. 内部评估 主观的评估
The internal evaluation,the subjective evaluation, 我证明了5000种方法不管用
it was 5,000 times where I showed what doesn't work. 要关注什么由我们自己决定
And it's up to us to decide where we focus. 我们庆祝成功或视为理所当然?
Do we celebrate successes or take it for granted? 我们觉得失败和困难都是灾难
Do we perceive failures and hardships as a disaster 或是成长的机会? 爱默生说过
or as an opportunity for growth? Emerson: “对不同思想而言 世界既是天堂又是地狱”
"to different minds the same world is a hell and a heaven." 莎士比亚说过
And Shakespeare: “事情没有好坏之分 只是思想使然”
"Nothing is good or bad,but thinking makes it so." 我不是百分之一百同意莎士比亚
Now,I don't 100 per cent agree with Shakespeare, 但从很大程度上看他是对的 住在达尔富尔的人
but he is to a great extent right. A person in ??? 就像生活在地狱中 很难改变环境
is living in hell,and it's very difficult to reframe, 并在那样的处境中表现得积极乐观
and to derive,and to look at the positive in that situation. 对住在集中营的人也一样
Same for a person living in a concentration camp. 所以有的外部情况会有影响
So there are external circumstances that matter. 一个人 无家可归的人
A person,a homeless person,you know, 如果给他们足够的钱买房子 买食物
if you give them enough money for a home,for food, 接受基础的教育 他们当然会更快乐
for basic education,of course they will become happier 因为外部情况的改变
because of the change of external circumstances. 然而 在基本需要和基本的自由外
However,beyond the basic needs,beyond the basic freedoms, 主要和我们如何认知现实有关
it is mostly about how we perceive reality, 以及我们如何让生活变成天堂或地狱
and we are able to make it into a heaven or a hell. 我们做个练习
Let's do an exercise 来帮助我们理解"专注创造现实"这一观点
that will capture this idea of "focus creating reality". 我有个问题问你们 有多少几何图形?
So I have a question for you: how many geometric shapes? 不幸 这个很棒的练习 只能做一次
Unfortunate,it's a great exercise but it only works once. 记住这点 你如何创造现实
Remember this,how you created your reality 基于你提的问题
just based on the question that you asked. 当我们看这幅图时我们在思考
We think when we look at the picture, 当然不是每个人都在看那个
you know not everyone of course is looking on the children 时钟上的公共汽车上的那个小孩 对吗?
on the bus on the clock,right? 但它就在你面前 而你没看到
But before it was right in front of you and you didn't, 你们许多人没有看到这点 是专注的问题
most of you,did not see it,because it is a question of focus. 我们经常抱怨生活 我们认为
Very often we complain about life and we think, 事情很糟糕 很可怕 而没意识到
you know,things are terrible and awful not realizing 我们是它的起因 要么是在想象它时
that we're the cause of it,either by imaging it 然后我们的信念变成自我实现预言
and then beliefs become self-fulfilling prophesies, 或因为我们只专注于不对的方面
or,because we just focus on what is not working. 而这并不意味着
And one thing and this does not mean 没有什么客观的糟糕的情况
that there are no objective terrible circumstances out there. 但很大程度上 我们一起创造了现实
But to a great extent,a great extent,we co-create our reality. 我的一个学生
You know one of the students 两年前在1504教室 向我推荐这本书
who was in 1504 two years ago recommended this book to me--- 《深夜加油站遇见苏格拉底》是本好书
Way of the Peaceful Warrior. And it's a wonderful book, 我刚开始看 它有部同名电影 对的
I just started reading it...and there is a movie on it,right... 我昨天才开始看 我看到这个...
I just started reading it yesterday,and I came across this... 这个寓言很巧合 我想读给你们听
you know coincidentally this parable,so I want to read it to you 作者Dan Millman讲了一个故事
The story that Dan Millman,the author,tells: 我和他在中东一个建筑工地认识
I met him on a construction site in the Middle West. 当午餐哨吹响时
When the lunch whistle blew, 所有的工人都会坐在一起吃饭
all the workers would sit down together to eat. 每天Sam都会打开午餐桶 开始抱怨
And everyday Sam would open his lunch pail and start to complain. "该死的家伙"他会大叫
"Son of the gun,"he would cry, "又是花生酱和果冻三明治
"not peanut butter and jelly sandwich again! 我讨厌花生酱和果冻"
I hate peanut butter and jelly!" 他埋怨着花生酱和果冻
He whined about his peanut butter and jelly sandwiches 日复一日
day after day after day, 直到一天工作组里的一个人终于说
until one of the guys in the work crew finally said: "Sam 如果你这么讨厌花生酱和果冻
"Sam,if you hate peanut butter and jelly so much, 为什么不叫你老婆
why don't you just tell your old lady 给你做点别的?"
to make you something different?" "什么我老婆?"Sam回答说
"What do you mean my old lady?" Sam replied, "我没结婚 我自己做三明治"
"I'm not married,I make my own sandwiches." 我们经常自己做三明治
You know,very often we make our own sandwiches 而没意识到这点 因为我们问的问题
and we don't even notice it. Because the questions that we ask, 我们问的问题决定我们的现实
the questions that we ask determine our reality: 花生三明治 几何形状 或车上的孩子
a peanut sandwich,or geometric shapes,or children on the bus, 或香肠 无论什么 我们创造我们自己的现实
or salami,whatever it is. We very often create our own reality. 如果我们理解这点 我们能改变
And if we understand this,we can transform, 改变我们认知的方式 改变关注的事
change the way that we perceive,change our focus, 改变我们的问题
change our questions, 无论是辩论非理性评估
whether it's questions disputing irrational evaluations, 或是关注积极面
whether it's questions focusing on the positive, 还是创造新的现实的问题
and questions create a new reality. 我们将在这里讨论
There are essentially two archetypes 本质上来说有两种原型
that I would like to discuss here, 在如何认知性地重建 加强 创造现实等
two archetypes that capture in many ways 多种途径有着两种原型
how we can cognitively reconstruct,enhance,create our reality. 两个原型分别是积极者和消极者
The two archetypes are the benefit-finder and the fault-finder. 首先消极者 消极者是
First of all,the fault-finder,the fault-finder is a person 总是专注不成功的事情的人
who always focuses on things that don't work, 花生酱和果冻 专注进展不顺利的事
on the peanut butter and jelly,on things that are not going well 专注交往中的问题 他或她自己的问题
on problems in the relationship,on problem in him or herself, 工作的问题 总是爱抱怨的人
problems with the job---the consummate complainer. 我们都存在于消极和
Now,we all exist on the continuum of 积极两个极端之间
between extreme fault-finding and extreme benefit-finding. 没有人
You know there is no one 总处于某一个极端
who is all the way on the extreme this way or that way, 每个人都在这个集合当中的某处
everyone is on somewhere on the continuum. 我想要鼓励的是 从消极向积极的方向
What I'm going to argue for is to move a little bit more 逐渐移动
from the fault-finding toward the benefit-finding, 因为这样有很多好处 我等下会讲到
because there are many benefits to it that I'll discuss later. 消极者
The fault-finder, 这名字出自梭罗的书中
I got the name from the work of Henry David Thoreau, 消极者甚至在天堂都能找到缺陷
the fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. 极端消极者总会经历辞职
The extreme fault-finder experiences resignation, 感到无助感 为什么?
learned helplessness. Why? 因为他或她开始真的相信
Because he or she begins to really believe 糟糕的现实真的存在
that the terrible reality is very much out there independent of 不受他或她的想法支配
what he or she thinks, 而没意识到是他们创造了那个现实
not recognizing that they create that reality, 他们开始相信无论他们做什么
they begin to believe that no matter what they do, 无论找什么工作 总有个糟糕的老板
no matter what job they find they have a terrible boss, 无论和什么人搭档
no matter what partners they have 他们都很糟糕 不顾及别人
they are always awful and inconsiderate, 无论去什么饭店 服务总是很糟糕
no matter what restaurant they go to the service is always awful, 他们总是吃同样的花生酱
and they always keep on getting the same peanut butter 和果冻三明治 是他们自己做的
and jelly sandwich that they made for themselves. 他们向现实屈服
And they resigned to the reality 那同时当然也让他们的存在
and that becomes a self-fulfilling prophesy of course, 变成自我实现预言
their existence. 消极者用柠檬榨柠檬汁
A fault-finder makes lemonade out of lemons, 抱歉 用柠檬汁做柠檬
sorry,makes lemon out of lemonade. 而积极者 加大洛杉矶分校的Julian Bauer做的研究
The benefit-finder,research Julian Bauer,now at UCLA, 积极者相反 专注于成功的事物
the benefit-finder is the opposite,focuses on what works. 积极者专注生活的光明一面
The benefit-finder looks on the bright side of life, 在乌云笼罩中找到一丝白光
finds the silver lining in the dark cloud, 用柠檬榨柠檬汁
makes lemonade out of lemons, 积极者能在普通中找到奇迹
The benefit-finder finds the miracle in the common, 爱默生就是一个模范积极者
Ralph Waldo Emerson,the consummate benefit-finder, 专注于积极面和进展顺利的事上
focusing on the positive and what works. 这里的问题也许是
Now the problem here may be that 积极者也许会孤立地...
the benefit-finder may be detached, 这是人们经常看到的一种批评
this is one of the criticisms of people who always see, 只看到生活的光明面
you know,the bright side of life, 这样的话的确是一个问题
and that is the problem if that is the case. Again, 这节课不提倡只专注积极面
this class is not advocating focusing only on the positive; 它专注于提倡现实
its focus is advocating reality. 现实包含好的和坏的食物
And reality comprises both good and bad, 现实包含几何图形
reality comprises both geometric shapes 和车上的孩子 关键在于要同时关注两者
and children on the bus,and the key is to focus on both. 分离
So the detachment, 分离地看待事物的积极者 不是一个原型
the detached benefit-finder is certainly not an archetype 在长期条件下
that I would advocate nor would it lead to mental health 它当然也不会使人心理健康
in the long run. Nathaniel Branden说过
"There is a need in the world" ---of Nathaniel Branden--- “世界上需要尊重现实”
"to respect reality." 我们不能只凭专注创造现实
We don't create reality simply by the focus, 我们是共同创造者
however,we are co-creator. 我给你们读一段William James的话
Let me read you extensively from William James, "但这些实在的因素 虽然都非常固定
"Now however fixed these elements of reality may be, 而我们对付它们 还是有一定自由的
we still have a certain freedom in our dealings with them. 拿感觉来说
Take our sensations, 感觉的存在 我们虽不能控制
THAT they are is undoubtedly beyond our control; 但是在我们的结论里 我们注意哪个
but WHICH we attend to,note,and 着重哪个 毕竟得凭我们个人的利益来决定
make emphatic in our conclusions depends on our own interests; 着重之点不同
and,according as we lay the emphasis here or there, 结果构成的真理可完全不同
quite different formulations of truth result. 事实全同 我们的看法可各异
We read the same facts differently. 同一个滑铁卢之战 具体情节绝无二致
'Waterloo',with the same fixed details, 而英国人看来是"胜利"
spells a 'victory' for an Englishman; 法国人看来是"失败"
for a Frenchman it spells 'defeat'. 同样 宇宙也如此 乐观主义者看作是胜利
So,for an optimist philosopher the universe spells victory, 悲观主义者看作是失败 我们对现实抱有怎样说法
for a pessimist,defeat. What we say about reality thus 全看我们怎么给他配景"
depends on the perspective into which we throw it. " 这是William James在1890年说的
William James said these back in 1890, 理解我们如何共同创造现实
understanding how we co-create our reality. 这是我最喜欢的R.L. Sharpe的诗
Here is one of my...one of my favorite poems by R.L. Sharpe: "是不是很奇怪 王子和国王
Isn't it strange,how princes and kings, 在木屑圈裡跳來跳去的小丑
and clowns that caper in sawdust rings, 一如你我的凡人
and common-people like you and me, 怎么会是永恒的打造者?
are builders for eternity? 人人都拿到了一份规则表
each is given a list of rules, 一大块不成形的东西 一袋工具
a shapeless mass and a bag of tools; 在生命流逝之前 人人都必须雕出
and each must fashion your life is flown, 一块绊脚石 或是一块垫脚石“
a stumbling block or a stepping stone. 经常我们在开始得到的东西
Very often what we get in the beginning 是一大块石头 我们怎么办?
is a large piece of stone. What do we do with it? 我们把它凿成漂亮的"大卫"?
Do we create it into a beautiful "David"? 凿碎多余的石头?
Chipping away the excess stone? 或者它只是我们通往成功的障碍
Or,is it a barrier to our success? 通常这是由我们决定的 因为我们共创现实
And very often it is up to us,as we co-create our reality. 石头就在那 我们不用负责
The stone is there,we are not responsible for it; 但我们用它做什么 我们要负责
but what we do with it,we are responsible for. 认知重建
Cognitive reconstruction 是要学习乐观地诠释事情
is about learning to interpret things optimistically, 换句话说 要积极的肯定值得肯定之处
another words,in the positive light. Ann Harbison 我同事
Ann Harbison,colleague of mine, 以前也和Philip Stone一起教书
used to teach also with Philip Stone, 说过“永远不要浪费一次好的危机”
said that "never let a good crisis go to waste". 危机在发展中有潜力
Crises have the potential through growth. 我们将谈到的其中一本书
One of the books that we will talk about 《热情婚姻》是关于婚姻关系的
when we talk about relationships is Passionate Marriage 作者David Schnarch 谈论婚姻中的考验
by David Schnarch,who talks about crucibles in marriage. 他说 成功的婚姻
And what he says is that ...the thriving relationships, 婚姻关系不是一直
a relationships,not that have been,you know, 和睦融洽的 往往会有争吵
all fine and dandy for years. These usually fail after a while. 而是经历过磨难
But the relationships that go through crucibles, 有过危机 有过分歧的婚姻关系
that have crises,disagreements and then,you know, 就像黑格尔的否定之否定规律
Thesis and Antithesis and then there is a Synthesis, 往往会因为经历过这些困难而获得更好的发展
and there is a growth as a result of these hardships. 他说没有其他办法
And he says that there is no other way, 学习失败或在失败中学习
again learn to fail or fail to learn, 维持长期的关系必须靠这个方法
there is no other way for a long-term success of a relationship. 关系看起来不像这样
Relationship does not,cannot look like this. 它必须有起有落
It has to have these ups and downs. 从不错失关系中的一个好危机
Never let a good crisis in a relationship go to waste. 不是说每个危机都要解决
That doesn't mean that every crisis needs to be resolved 有些关系可以结束 也应该结束
and there are some that could end,and should end a relationship. 但多数危机能被解决 需要处理好
But most crises can be solved and need to be dealt with. 在个人层面也是一样 Warren Bennis的研究表明
Same on individual level,work by Warren Bennis, 他来自南加州大学
he is from USC, 在这里的商学院执教过几年
taught for a few years here at the Business School, 他鉴定了一群领袖人物
has identified the leading leaders, 无论是他称为“极客”的年轻一代
whether it's younger ones what he called, 或者是30多岁或更大的
whom he called "the geeks",the thirty-year-olds,or elder ones, 他称之为“怪杰”的老一辈
"the geezers" he called them. 他出过一本叫《极客与怪杰》的书
He has a book called Geeks & Geezers, 他在里面讨论了
where he talks about the differences 这两种领导风格 领导方式 激情以及
between the two leadership styles,approaches,passions, 兴趣爱好的区别 有许多的不同之处
interests and there are numerous differences. 比如
For example,you know, 极客 年轻一代会谈论工作生活平衡
the geeks---the younger one talk about work-life balance, 怪杰们则不知道那是什么意思
the geezers don't know what he means by that. 而男人工作
You know it was usually,he,a man, 女人照顾家庭和男人
worked while the woman took care of the family and the man. 则是对怪杰而言的 对老的一代而言
So that was for the geezers,for the older generation. 年轻的一代 谈论工作生活平衡
The younger generation,they talk about work-life balance 他们如何结合生活中所有的元素
and how they can incorporate all the elements of their lives. 当然在极客中的女人数比怪杰中多
There are of course many more women in the geeks than the geezers 两代人有无数不同点 但有一个相似点
Numerous differences among the generation,one similarity. 所有的伟大的领袖
All the great leaders, 无论是30岁或85岁
whether they were thirty-year-old or eighty-five years old, 他们都经历过艰难的困境
all of them had been through very rough crucibles 留下一段充满惊险的往事
and leave to tell the tale. 我们大多数人经历过困境
Our most people go through crucibles, 但有些人
but there are certain people 能从这些困境中找到益处
who are able to find benefit in these crucibles 从而成长
and grow as a results. 永远不要错失一个好危机
Never let a good crisis go to waste, 无论你在经历的是
whether it's professionally,whether it's interpersonally, 职业上或人际关系上
whether it's intra-personally in terms of 或是内在个性上的危机
what you are experiencing. 四年或五年前
But four years ago or five years ago, 我还是Leverett宿舍的住宿导师
when I was still a resident tutor in Leverett house, 我们举办了开学前活动
and we had one of these pre-business events 我们讨论了即将来临的一年的情况
where we talked about the upcoming year 和招聘事宜等等
and the recruiting and so on. 那一年是很糟糕的一年
That particular year was a terrible year, 高盛在裁员 没有校园招聘
Goldman Sachs was laying off,wasn't recruiting on campus, 瑞士信贷 第一波士顿银行也在裁员
Credit Suisse,First Boston they were laying off as well, 德意志银行建行以来第一次裁员
Deutsche Bank,first time in his history was laying off employees 市场环境非常糟糕 我们讨论时每个人
really bad market. And we talked about this,each of us gave it, 都在估测市场的形势和他们能做什么
what should be about the market and what they can do, 非常严肃的话题 然后一个学生
very sober presentation. And then one of the students, 我的学生Sean Fieldscoy当时大四
you know my students Sean Fieldscoy,was a senior then, 他坐在那里 他学了积极心理学
was sitting there,Had studied positive psychology there. 他举起手说
He put up his hand and said: "Tal 你描绘了一个非常悲观的
"Tal,you know,as...you know you portrait a very pessimistic 消极的画面
and negative picture, 但作为一个积极心理学老师
but as a teacher of Positive Psychology 你能否说点积极的?"
can you maybe shed some optimism here?" And you know, 观众中有些窃笑 然后是一片寂静
few chuckles in the audience and then silence. 每个人都看着我
And everyone is looking at me, 我不知道说什么 我第一反应是说
I don't know what to say and my immediate reaction was to say “Sean 事出皆有因” 没错
"Well Sean things happen for the best." Exactly. (laughs) 然后
And then, 当我说出口前 我心想
just before it came out of my mouth I said...I thought to myself, "其实我不相信"
"Actually I don't believe that." 我不相信事出皆有因
I don't believe that things happen for the best. 但虽然我不相信事出皆有因
But while I don't believe that things happen for the best, 我的确相信有些人能够因事制宜
I do believe that some people are able to make the best 这里有一个很大的区别
of things that happen,and there is a very big difference here. 因为当我说“我不满意刚发生的事”
Because when I say "I'm not happy about what just happen here, 我不喜欢它 我更希望市场是好市场
I don't like it,I much rather have the market be a good market, 人们就业很容易
where people are hiring, 许多人争相向我提供工作
where they all come to me on a silver platter and offer me a job. 当然 我更情愿那样
Of course,I would much rather have that. 所以事出未必有因
So things don't happen for the best necessarily, 但有些人接受这种情况
but there are some people who accept the situation 并且能够因事制宜
and then are able to make the best of it. 对任何危机而言都一样 你们以为领袖们
The same with any crisis. Do you think the leaders, 无论他们80或90岁
whether they are the eighty- or ninety-year-olds, 会主动在生活中寻求严酷的考验吗
invited those crucibles into their lives 会想让这些困难发生吗?
want these crucibles to happen? 你觉得处在关系中的伙伴会说
Do you think partners go into a relationship and say "我们寻找考验
"let's look for that crucible, 我们吵一架让我们的关系更健康吧"?
let's really fight so that we can have a healthy relationship"? 当然不会 但如果真的发生这种情况
Of course not! But when it happens, 他们会充分利用它
that's when they make the best of it. 有些事会发生
You know,stuff happens, 我们要么无动于衷要么从中获取利益
and we can either let it pollute or make fertilizer out of it. 我再举一个领袖的例子
I want to show you an example once again of a leader, 他是一个模范积极者
who is a consummate benefit-finder. 我们很荣幸能和曼德拉聊天
Wow. We are honored to be talking with Neilson Mandela, 南非前任总统 他不可动摇的勇气
the former president of South Africa,whose unshakable courage, 他的信仰和正直鼓舞了数千万人
his faith and integrity have inspired millions to see 看到自己生命中的可能
what is possible in their own lives. 我很高兴 很荣幸在此之前几次见过
I've had the pleasure,the honor of meeting Mr. Mandela 曼德拉先生 我告诉你们
on a couple of occasions before and I will tell you, 和他在一起真的 和你在一起
to be in his presence is really,to be in your presence 就像同时和庄严和优雅在一起
is like being a presence of royalty and grace at the same time. 我想知道一个人在狱中度过27年
I would think,I wonder how does a man spend 27 years in prison, 被压迫者迫害入狱
put there by an oppressor, 出来后没有铁石心肠
and come out of that experience with not a heart of stone, 没有漠不关心
not a cold heart 而怀着愿意原谅和容纳的心
but a heart that is willing to forgive and embrace. 我记得一晚吃晚饭时和你聊天
I remember talking to you one night of our dinner, 你对我说 我们对压制者的憎恨
and you had said to me that our hatred for the oppressor 太过强烈 我们没有看到和他谈话的价值
was so intense we did not see the value of talking to him. 那么你看到了什么价值 要放下仇恨
So at what point did you see the value of letting go of that hatred 并开展对话?
and begin the process of talking? 首先我想说 这是一个很好的策略
Well,let me say first,that is a great tragedy 把一生最好的时间花监狱中
to spend the best of your lives in prison. 虽然看起来很讽刺 但有好处
But although it looks ironical,there are advantages in that. 如果我没有入狱 不会有...
If I had not been at the prison,I have not... 我不会完成毕生中
I would not be able to achieve the most difficult, 最困难的任务 那改变了你自己
a task in life,and that is changing yourself. 我不会有那样的机会
I would not have an opportunity. 我有那个机会是因为 在监狱里你有
I had that opportunity because in prison you have 在监狱外工作所没有的
what we don't have in our work outside prison, 机会 可以坐下思考 这是重要部分
the opportunity to sit down and think,which is an important part 但你需要27年吗?
Did you need 27 years of it though? 你可以用几天 几周 一个假期
You could have taken a few days,a week,a vacation. 你需要27年吗?
Did you need 27 years? 好
Now, 他花了27年是有意义的吗?
did it happen for the best that he spent 27 years of his life? 当然他经历时 很痛苦 很可怕
Certainly when he experienced it,it was painful,it was awful, 但他能改变这个
but he was able to transform this. 甚至在那个情况下 看到积极方面
And to,even in that situation,to see the positive. 当我们改变那个
And when we transform that, 那些知道他经历过什么事的人
those who know the history of what happen to him, 当他开始看这积极方面
when he started to look at the positive, 即使在监狱也有机会
even there are the opportunities in prison 当他改变思维模式 换句话说
when he changes his mind set. In other words, 不是外部情况
not the external circumstances, 外部情况确实开始改变
the external circumstances actually begin to change. 另一个积极者
Another benefit-finder, "悲观者在每个机会中看到困难
"a pessimist sees difficulty in every opportunity, 乐观者在每个困难中看到机会"
an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty." 你不会想跟他争论
And you don't want to argue with him. 我想在结尾给你讲一个故事
I want to end by telling you a story, 一个关于我几年间经历的个人故事
a personal story about my experiences throughout the years. 一些自传细节
Some biographical detail, 一些你们多数人不知道的事
something that most of you did not know. 我要告诉你们
And I am going to tell it to you first 先从消极者的角度
from the perspective of the fault-finder. 我有轻微的注意力缺陷障碍
I have a mild case of ADD, 这让事情变得非常困难
it makes things very difficult for me, 我很难集中精神 我的脑子经常游离
it's difficult for me to focus,my mind wanders often, 我真的不断地与它斗争
and I really struggle with it constantly. 当我读高中时
When I was in high school, 我很想进入一个数学的赚钱项目中
I really wanted to get into a lucrative program in mathematics, 没通过入选考试 我很失望
did not pass the entry exam,I was very disappointed, 我没做到 成了专业壁球运动员
I did not make it. Becoming a professional squash player 是我11岁以来的梦想
was a dream for me since the age of 11. 那是我一直会想的事情
That is the thing that I thought about constantly, 那时这是我最重要的事
that was the most important thing for me at the time. 我想当一个专业选手
I wanna to be a professional player. 20岁时
At the age of twenty, 我在以色列马上就要服满兵役
I was about to complete my military service in Israel 我在壁球场受了伤
and I got injured on the squash court 拉坏了背部的肌肉
and pulled the muscle in my back. 医生让我选择 或者动手术
The doctor gave me an option of being operated on, 这有很大风险 或者放弃职业生涯
which was a big risk,or giving up my professional career. 我选择放弃我的职业生涯
I chose to give up my professional career, 一个我儿时的梦想 这个打击很大
a dream that I had from a very young age. It was a real blow. 我去了剑桥
I went to Cambridge, 哈佛毕业后 我参加一个博士项目
after graduating from Harvard and I enrolled in a PhD program. 我是那个项目中唯一没通过的
I was the only student in my PhD program to fail, 我被赶出了这个项目 很没面子
I was thrown out of the program. It was humiliating; 像浪费了一年
it seemed like a waste of a year 因为我甚至没拿到硕士学位
because I did not even get a master's degree. 这真的是个很艰难的经历
It was a real tough experience. 在哈佛 作为研究生
At Harvard,as a graduate student,I took, 我和其他学生一起 参加资格统考
with all the other students,my qualifying general exams. 在所有参加那个考试的研究生中
Out of all the graduate students who took that exam, 我是唯一没有通过的
I was the only one who failed it. 又是一个非常丢脸的经历
Once again,a really humiliating experience, 走在William James楼边 大家都知道成绩
walking around William James and everyone knows their results, 这很难堪 不只那样 我被临时
it was tough. Not only that,I was given provisional, 临时选择留在这个项目中
the provisional option of staying in the program. 他们对我说 你不仅要通过明年考试
They said to me,not only do you need to pass next year's exam 要和下一届一起考
when you take it with the next class, 你还要出色地通过考试 否则就出局
you have to pass it with flying colors or you are out. 剩下的这个学期
So,while the rest of the semester, 忙着于论文和写作的同时
while working on the dissertations,writing, 我几乎快毕业还得回去看最基本的知识
almost graduating I had to go back to the basics 把所有教材再复习一遍
and go over the whole material again. 天啊 我太不幸了
God,I am so unlucky. 我想说一些我生活中的某些自传性事实
I want to share with you some biographical facts about my life, 我有轻微注意力缺陷障碍
you know,I have a mild case of ADD, 这很棒 知道为什么吗?
which is great,you know why? 因为 这实际迫使我只能学
Because,it actually forces me to only study things 我喜欢的东西 我关心的东西
that I love,things that I care about, 因为其他的事情 我就集中不了精神
because anything else,my concentration just goes away. 所以就像我有一个内部机制
So it's like,I have an internal mechanism 强迫我专注最终的东西
that forces me to focus on the ultimate currency, 专注让我快乐的东西
on things that make me happy. And 我只学我热爱的东西 这很棒
I only study things that I'm passionate about,it is wonderful. 我读高中时
You know,when I was in high school, 非常想进某个项目
I really wanted to get into a certain program, 一个可以赚钱的项目 但没能进去
in a very lucrative program,and I didn't get in, 我入选考试没通过
I failed the entrance exam, 这最终是塞翁失马
which turned out to be a blessing in disguise, 因为它让我有更多时间练习打壁球
because it gave me so much more time to practice and play squash, 我最终赢得了国际冠军
and I ended up winning international championships 在第二年
in the following year, 如果我进了那个项目就不会做到了
which I wouldn't have done had I been in that program. 当我在剑桥大学时
When I was in the University of Cambridge, 我在一个博士项目 我是班里唯一
I was in a PhD program,and I was the only one in my class, 据我所知
and as far as I know, 数年来唯一被赶出这个项目的人
the only one in years to be thrown out of the program. 这其实是个很重要的经历
And it was actually a very important experience,you know, 我哈佛毕业时 很自负
I got out of Harvard,I was arrogant, 我认为自己比谁都神圣
I thought I was holier than thou, 这是个非常令人羞辱的经历
and this was a real humbling experience 对我而言尤其重要
that was especially important for me, 因为第二年我去亚洲工作
because the next year I went to work in Asia, 在那里 自负是最糟糕的事情
and there,the worst that I could do was to be arrogant. 所以这个令人羞辱的经历
So this humbling experience actually helped me 对我后来的生活有很大帮助
a great deal in my future career, 也帮助我正确对待事情
as well as helped me put things in perspective. 当我来到哈佛 我是项目中唯一
When I came to Harvard,I was the only one in my program 没通过资格统考的人
to fail the general qualifying exams, 这是沉重的打击 很艰难
it was a hard blow,it was difficult, 但结果是个很好的经历 知道为什么?
but it turned out to be a very good experience,you know why? 因为我得把相同的教材
Because I had to study the exact same material 这些厚厚的书和文章重新学习一遍
and these huge books and articles all over again, 不只是达到基本水平
and know them not just at the basic level, 我要学得非常好 因为这是条件
I had to know them extremely well because that was the condition 是教授让我留在这个项目组的条件
that the professors gave for me staying in the program. 这非常好 因为我把教材融会贯通
And it was so good because I learned the material so well 我的社会心理学 现在大概
that I know social psychology today probably 比我认识的任何人都好 这帮了我很大忙
better than anyone I know,and that helps me a great deal. 它帮我把这个1504课程整合起来
It helps me a great deal in putting together this course 1504, 没什么地方比这里更让我喜欢待的
and there is no place I would rather be than here. 天 我真幸运
God,I am so lucky. 谢谢 同样的事实 不同的诠释
Thank you. Same reality,different interpretations. 只要记住 我们经历的大部分事情
Just remember,much of what we experience, 我们参与创造 下星期见
we co-create. See you next week. 



 Chapter 7: 感激


在上节课结束之前
I ended last time by 我跟大家分享了我生平的一些事
sharing some biographical details about my life. 后来有人问我"是真的吗?"
Some people asked me after,"are they really true?" 没错 是千真万确的
So yes,they are absolutely true. 这个故事我是从两个不同的角度来讲的
And I told the incident from two different perspectives— 第一个是消极者的 第二个是积极者的
first as a fault finder,and then as a merit finder. 大家要记住的很重要的一点是
Now the important thing to keep in mind 我们所说的积极者并非
when we think about the merit finder is that it's not that 不会感到痛苦或失望
the merit finder does not experience pain or disappointment, 愤怒或羞辱 恐惧或失望
or anger,or humility,or fear,or disappointment. 至少无法追求自己的目标
It's very disappointing to say the least, 是一件很让人失望的事
not to be able to pursue one's goal, 如果这个目标碰巧是关于职业生涯的
if the goal happens to be a professional career in squash. 或者是如果自己是唯一一个
It is very humiliating to be the only person 没有拿到学位的人
who fails of a program and to have to walk around 而不得不在Willam James大楼再呆一年
for a whole year in William James while 就像脑袋长了一个角那么羞愧
feeling like you have a horn coming out of head. 这种事没有快乐可言 非常痛苦
It's not fun. It's painful. 但是积极者...对不起
However,the difference between a merit finder,sorry, 积极者和消极者的区别在于
a benefit finder and a fault finder is that, 积极者明白
the benefit finder understands that 这世界是不会事事如愿的
while things don't necessarily happen for the best, 但我们可以扭转坏事
it is possible to make the best of things that happen. 事情会好转的 一切会变顺利的
Things will be OK. Things will turn out fine. 可能需要点时间
It may take a while. 可能要过一段时间才能看到曙光
Until I see the benefit of it,it may take a while and I will 可能要过一段时间才能忘了羞辱痛苦失望
get over the humiliation or the pain or the disappointment. 但一切不好的事都会过去
But that,too,shall pass. 也就是说 积极者明白
In other words,The benefit finder understands that 这些感觉是暂时的 他会允许自己
these feelings are temporary,gives him or herself the permission 有人之常情 他会明白
to be human and then understands 事情最后会好转的
things will turn out fine at the end. 我明白这点 发生的都发生了 这就是人生
I know that. Been there. Done that. Part of life. 允许自己有人之常情 包括允许自己
Permission to be human,which includes permission 感受这些负面情绪 允许自己失败
to experience these emotions and also the permission to fail. 我们稍后会深入讲允许自己失败
We'll talk a lot about this permission to fail 等我们讲到完美主义时
when we talk about perfectionism. 因为完美主义对失败有强烈的情绪
Because perfectionism is real intense for your failure 如果做不到最好的 那就是最差的
or we feel it's all or nothing. 如果你不是完美无瑕 那你就是一无是处
Either we have a complete flawless record,or it's useless. 要么就是非凡 要么就是平庸 没有中间地带
It's either phenomenal,or catastrophe. All or nothing. 积极者明白
The benefit finder understands that nature, 人的本性决定了
the human nature dictates that 我们会有痛苦的情绪 人的本性
we have painful emotions and human nature, 或者说是人就会有失败的时候 但失败会过去的
or being human dictates we also fail. And that,too,shall pass. 做积极者有很多好处
There are many benefits to be a benefit finder. 第一个好处就是幸福感多了
So the first benefit is we simply feel better. 积极者感到更多幸福 还有其他好处
We are happier for it. But there are many many others. 例如
For example, 波莫纳大学的Suzanne Thompson做了以下的研究
Suzanne Thompson from Pomona University did following research. 她找那些在加州大火中
She went to people who had just lost their homes 失去家园的灾民
in a fire in California. 那时候很多灾民...那是一场很大的山火
There were many of them at the time- it was a large wildfire. 很多人去失去了家园
And many people lost their homes 火灾过去 她去采访他们
and she interviewed them after that. 她把积极者和消极者区分开来
And she distinguished who were benefit finders and fault finders: 积极者并没有说"我很高兴火灾发生了"
the benefit finders didn't say "I'm so glad it happened", 而是说"这场天灾也有好的一面"
but they said "well there are some positive here- "我可以重新开始 火灾给了我一个新起点"
I can start a new; it's a fresh start; "现在我更喜欢我的家 我的家人都安全无事"
and now I'll appreciate my home more; my family is OK; "这让我很欣慰 这是好事"
and I'm relieved and that's good. 所以积极者看到的是好的一面
So they focused on the positive. 随后她跟进这些受访者
When she followed up with these individuals, 那些跟消极者区分开来的积极者
those who were benefit finders as opposed to fault finders 长远来说 他们感到更幸福
were happier in the long term,were able to, 他们有更多积极情绪
were experiencing more positive moods,and less likely 焦虑的情绪更少 身体也少患病
to be anxious and had less physical symptoms. 所以对身心都有好处
Both psychological as well as physical consequences. 有很多研究针对积极心态对身体的影响 例如
Numerous,a lot of research on health benefits-for example, Glenn Affleck找一些人做过一个研究
Glenn Affleck did research with individuals 这些人有过心脏病发
who had a heart attack. 有些人把病发看成大灾难
And there were some individuals who saw it as the catastrophe, 世界末日
the end of the world. 另外一些人当然不会为病发感到高兴
There were others who were certainly not happy about it, 但他们会说"这是一个警钟"
but said "OK,so this is a wake-up call. "心脏病发也有好的一面"
It's actually some positive here, "因为它告诉我要好好照顾自己的身体"
because it is telling me I need to take care of myself better". 或者病发让他们对自己的价值观有所改观
Or it helped them revise their personal values. 看到积极的一面的人
Those individuals who saw the positive,the benefit, 把心脏病发视为一个警钟的人
who are able to see the wake-up call there 再活八年的几率更高
were more likely to survive 8 years later; 而且再次心脏病发的几率也更低
less likely to have a second heart attack. 这听起来很显然而见
Now that sounds pretty obvious, 因为他们会改变生活方法
because you know they change their life style. 但原因不只是改变了生活方式
But it's not just about changing life style. 我上次介绍的UCLA大学的Julienne Bower
Julienne Bower we talked about last time from UCLA 他研究过一些艾滋病患者 找出其中的积极者
looked at AIDS patient and identified the benefit finders there- 不是那些说"太好了 我有艾滋病"的人
not the people who said "I'm so glad that I have AIDS", 而是那些说"因为患了这个病"
but rather the people who said "as a result of that, "现在我更懂得感激一些事"
I am able to appreciate certain things more; "因为患了这个病"
as a result of that, "我更关心那些真正重要的事"
I focus more on the things that really matter; "因为这个病 我和一些人更亲近了"
as a result,I am getting closer to certain people". 四到九年后 她跟进这个研究
The benefit finders,when she followed up 4 to 9 years later, 她发现积极者的存活的几率更高
the benefit finders were more likely to survive, 活下来的可能性更高
were more likely to be alive. Laura King和Minor做的研究表明
Research by Laura King and Minor: what they showed 我们可以把人培养成积极者
was that it can also be used as an intervention. 所以除了那些天生的积极者
So it's not just people who are born benefit finders 或者消极者以外...我们知道积极与否和基因有一定关系
or fault finders - and we know there is a genetic component too, 但除了天生的以外 还可以后天培养
but there could be an intervention. 他们找来一些生活中受过创伤的人
So they brought in people who'd experienced traumas 让他们写下这些创伤
in their lives and they had them write about these traumas 写下从创伤中"看到"的好处
and their "perceived" benefits of the trauma. 那些写下从创伤中"看到的好处"的人
Those who wrote about the "perceived benefit" of the trauma 身体和心理都更健康更幸福
were physically healthier and psychologically healthier,happier. 另一个研究的对象是癌症患者
Another research on cancer patients. 那些参加研究的女性写下她们的病情
The women came in and wrote about their cancer. 她们还会写
And they wrote about "患上癌症带来的好事"
"good things that came out of my experience with cancer". 写出这些的女人
The women who wrote about this, 看医生的次数更少
visited the doctor office less often, 战胜癌症的几率也更高
were more likely to survive their cancer. 通过改变她们的观念 改变她们的关注点
Just by changing their perspective,by changing their focus. 这些女人没有说"患上癌症最好了"
Now these women did not say "it happened for the best". 也许有些人会这么说 但大部分不会
Maybe some did; but most did not. 他们会说"但愿我没有癌症"
They said "I wish I didn't have this cancer". "但我确实患上了
However it happened,you know. Stuff happens. 关键是我们怎么处理 怎么看待这个病"
The question is what we do with it; how we interpret it after. 然后她们跟自己说
Then they said to themselves "我们和家人更亲近了"
"OK,so we get closer to our family; "我现在更感激生活了"
I'm appreciating life so much more now; "我可以享受一下花香了"
I can enjoy the breath or flower, "现在我和家人乐也融融"
or I couldn't before my family so much closer now; "现在我知道谁才是真正的朋友了"
I know who my real friends are". 她们从坏事中找出好事 而不是把坏事看到好事
And they found benefit in it. Not for the best. 但她们会尽力从坏事中看到好的一面
But they made the best of the things that happened. 这种心态甚至会影响到他们的寿命水平
And that made the difference even to their mortality rates. 有很多人研究乐观
There's a lot of research on optimism, 积极心态和长寿之间的联系 例如
benefit-finding and longevity. For example, 在Mayo诊所那839位住院病人中
in a sample of 839 residents in the Mayo clinic, 研究人员用他们作研究对象
when they looked at them, 他们区分开积极者和消极者
they identified the benefit finders and fault finders. 两年后那些乐观的积极者
The benefit finders that are optimists were,after 2 years, 存活率高出19%
were 19% more likely to survive. 到目前为止 在研究积极心态和乐观领域中
By far,the most influential and interesting study done 影响最深最有趣的实验就是修女实验
in this area of benefit finding and optimism was the nun study. 这个实验从多方面表明圣经里说得没错
The nun study showed in many ways that the Bible was correct, 快乐真的能使人长寿
that joy does prolongeth our lives. 这个修女实验是从1932年开始做
And the nun study was done,started in 1932. 1932年 178位修女完成受训
In 1932,178 nuns who just completed their training- 她们的年龄大约为22岁
they were around the age of 22,just about to embark 这些即将开始传教的修女受到方方面面的测试
on their mission were tested on numerous accounts. 其中一个就是她们要写自己的短小传记
One of the things they did was write biographical sketches 这个资料几十年前就收集起来了
of themselves. And we had this data for decades. 最近心理学家才打开这些资料
And psychologists just very recently opened up the data 想对它进行研究
and wanted to look at it, 想弄明白
wanted to understand what predicts longevity. 有几个修女活到了今天?活了多久?
Which of the nuns are still alive today? How long did they live? 这个实验在1932年展开 她们当时22岁
OK,this was done in 1932 when they were avergae age of 22. 他们想找长寿的预测因素
And they looked for predictors of longevity 所以他们看她们的传记写得多深奥
so they looked at how complex their essays were- 也就是说考察她们的智力水平
in other words,their intellectual capacities, 跟长寿一点关系都没有 他们看居住环境
zero correlation to longevity; they looked at place of residence- 看看居住环境的污染程度
maybe they lived in places with less or more pollution 会不会影响她们的寿命
that would impact how long they lived, 没联系 住加州的和住波士顿的没分别
zero correlation- California,Boston,no difference; 他们研究她们的虔诚程度 信仰程度
they looked at how devout they were,their levels of belief 她们那时才22岁 对长寿没什么影响
at that time at the age of 22- didn't predict longevity. 只有一样东西
There was one thing and one thing alone 跟她们的寿命有联系
that predicted how long they would live. 那就是积极情绪
And that was positive feelings. 研究人员所做的是
What they did,the researchers, 看她们写的传记
was looking at the biographical sketches- 他们不认识这些女人
now they had no idea who these women were, 所以这是一个完全盲法研究
so it was a completely blind study- 双盲研究 研究人员看这些传记
double blind. And they looked, 把传记分为四类
they categorized the writings into four categories: 最积极的 最不积极的
the most positive,the least positive 中间还有两类
and two categories in between. 然后他们比较最积极那类
And then they compared the most positive quartile 和最不积极的那类
to the least positive quartile. 他们得出以下的结果
And here are the results that they found. 我先给大家读一段她们写的传记
Let me give you a sample though before so that 让你们了解积极的传记是怎样的
you get a sense of what a positive sample is 最不积极的是怎么样的
and what a less positive sample is. 这一段是积极类里的Cecilia O'Payne写的
So here is Cecilia O'Payne from the positive quartile: "上帝为我的人生开了一个好头"
"God started my life off well by bestowing upon me 他恩赐我生命以无尽的价值 过去一年"
grace of inestimable value. The past year which I spent "我在圣母学院受训 这一年我过得很快乐"
as a candidate studying at Notre Dame has been a very happy one. "现在我热切期待接过圣母的圣衣"
Now I look forward with eager joy to receiving the Holy Habit "接受主无上的爱"
of Our Lady and to a life of union with Love Divine." 快乐 欢乐 爱 这是一个积极的人
Happy. Joy. Love. This is a positive person. 下面这位属于最不积极的一类
Now here is someone from the least positive quartile. 你们会看到 她并不是特别消极
As you'll see,this is not someone who is particularly negative, 但她并不关注于积极情绪上 没有欢乐
but not a person who focuses on positive,on joy,on happiness. Marguerite Donnelly"我出生于1909年9月26日"
Marguerite Donnelly: "I was born on September 26,1909, "家里最大的孩子 五个女孩 两个男孩"
the eldest of seven children,five girls and two boys. "我在女修道院会受训一年"
My candidate year was spent in the motherhouse, "教化学 第二年在圣母学院教拉丁文"
teaching chemistry and second year Latin at Notre Dame Institute. "蒙主恩赐 我会尽力完成使命"
With God's grace,I intend to do my best for our Order, "传教 修道"
for the spread of religion and for my personal sanctification." 非常写实
Again,very factual. 没有积极者的那么积极
But not as positive as much of a merit finder, 没有Cecilia O'Payne那么乐观
an optimist as Cecilia O'Payne. 现在我们来看看这些资料
Let's look at some of the data now. 85岁时 我要重申 她们85岁
At the age of 85,at the age of 85—and again, 是很多年前的事了 最积极那类有90%
this is a looking back,90% of the most cheerful quartile were 还活着 而最不积极那类只有34%
alive and just 34% of the least cheerful quartile were alive. 两个数据相差很大
This is significant difference. 这并不说明消极者就不会
Now that dosen't mean that there aren't some fault finders 活到120岁 也不能说明积极者就不会
who lived to 120 and merit finders 30岁死于心脏病发 当然个别例外是有的
who died of a heart attack at 30. Of course,there are. 但平均来说
But on average, 在这个长寿研究中 最能解释
the best predictor what accounts for the most of the variance, 两组相差如此大的数据的因素
in terms of longevity in the study, 就是积极情绪 总体的积极性
was positive feelings- positivity in general. 再过九年 她们94岁的时候
Here is 9 years later. Same study. At the age of 94, 最积极一类中有54%还活着
54% of the most cheerful quartile were still alive 而最不积极那类只有11%
while just 11% of the least cheerful quartile were alive. 结果很显著 你也可以拿一些传记来
These are remarkable results. Again,you have some sketches. 分析它们 你不知道谁还活着 谁死了
You analyze them,not knowing who lived and who died. 只根据积极心态这一因素
And just based on the single factor- positivity, 你的预测就能达到很准确的程度
you are able to predict with remarkable significant levels. 你能预测谁会长寿
You are able to predict longevity- 谁还活着 谁已经去世了
who will be alive and who will not be. 现在我看这些资料
Now when I look at this data- 还有很多关于长寿 身体
and there's a lot more data on longevity,on health, 健康等资料 我觉得"太棒了"
on well-being,I said to myself,"Wow. So this is fantastic! "积极心态真的很有用 当乐观主义者真好"
Benefit finding really works! Being an optimistic is good!" 但我有两个问题 "为什么不是每个人都是乐观主义者?"
And I have two questions then,"Why isn't everyone optimistic?" 如果我们能更幸福更健康
If we become happier,if we become healthier, 为什么我们不都去做乐观主义者?这是第一个问题
why not,why aren't we all optimistic? That's the first question. 第二个问题是 如果我想当乐观主义者
The second question is: alright,so I want to be more optimistic. 我该怎么做?
How do I become that? 第一个问题:为什么不是人人都是乐观主义者?
So first one: why aren't more people optimistic? 第二个:怎么变成乐观主义者?
Second: how do I become opticmistic? 我会回答这两个问题
I am going to answer these two questions. 先来看第一个问题
Let me begin with the first. 为什么乐观主义者这么少的主要原因是
One of the main reasons why there aren't more people 我们认为乐观主义是不切实际
who are optimistic is that optimists are considered detached. 我们怎么知道?
And how do we know that? 谁让我们觉得这是不切实际
Well,or what leads to the sense of detachment, 谁让我们觉得乐观主义者不切实际?最主要是媒体
to the notion that optimists are detached? It's mostly the media. 我们在媒体上都看到什么?仇恨
Because what do we see? We mostly see hatred. 流血 不幸福
We mostly see blood shed. We mostly see unhappiness. 恐怖主义 如果有人说
We see terrorism. And then,when someone says "我是乐观主义者 我觉得世界很美好"
"well I'm optimistic; I think the world is a good place", 什么?你脑子不正常了吗?
that person- what? Are you out of your mind? 你不切实际 你盲目乐观
You are detached Pollyanna. 你看看这世界发生的可怕事情
Just look at all the terrible things in the world. 在这样一个世界里 你怎么乐观?
How can you be in such a world- how can you be optimistic? 你怎么积极?
How can you be positive? 快乐幸福从哪谈起?
How can you talk about joy and happiness? 在这样的一个世界里谈幸福心理学?
And positive psychology in a world like this? 你太盲目乐观了
You must be Pollyannish. 很大程度上来说 Thomas Hobbes的话说得没错
In many ways,the message of Thomas Hobbes is correct: 人生短暂 残酷 可悲
you know,life is short,brutish,nasty and poor. 在现代世界 这种悲观情绪
And that seems much more likely to be true 比乐观情绪更切合实际
than an optimistic sense of life. 我们来看看几个新闻头条
Let's look at some of the headlines. 这是我几周前为本节课备课时
I got these just a couple of weeks ago 找来的新闻头条
as I was preparing for this particular lecture. 委内瑞拉 飞机失踪 航班延误
So Venezuela. A missing jet. Flight delays. 选举 科索沃再次发生暴动
Ok,this is the elections. Fresh violence in Kosovo. 新国家诞生 发生暴力事件
So a new state is created,and there is violence. 我们关注的却是暴力 地震毁了几百个家园
This is the focus. Hundreds of home damaged by quake. And so on. 土耳其入侵伊拉克 <血色将至>
Turkey launches incursion into Iraq. Blood (血色将至VS老无所依)两部电影竞逐奥斯卡
(There will be Blood vs No Country for Old Man)dual for Oscar. 这算是好消息 Tori Spelling...
OK,that's a good one I guess. Yeah. Tori Spelling dishes... 继续 刚才是CNN的新闻
OK,let's move on. So that was CNN. 这是...什么?我忘了哪间媒体了
Here is... What was that? Forget which paper I got. 应该是路透社 伊朗核问题悬而未决
I think this is Reuters. Iran nuclear question remains. 还是土耳其 大使馆抗议 欧盟
And you know again,Turkey. Protest ambassies. EU. 之类的 都是消极新闻 这是福克斯新闻
So on and so on. Negativities. This is Fox News. 关注点是什么?小孩母亲想脱身
What's the focus? This kid's mom wants out. 一个母亲抛弃孩子
A mother leaves her child. 它没有关注那几百万个
You know it's not focusing on the millions, 几十亿个抱着孩子的母亲
billions of mothers who embrace their children. 而是关注想脱身的母亲 他们报道原因
It's the mother who wants out. And then they tell why- you know, 是什么让这位母亲想抽身离开
what led the mother to want out of this relationship. 之类的 这么多负面新闻
And so on and so on. So much negative. 在这样一个世界里 我们怎么乐观?
How can we be positive in a world like this? 那太不切实际了吧?
It would be really unrealistic of us,wouldn't it? 接下来让大家看一位专家
Well,I want to show you an excerpt now 我最喜欢的心理学家 Ellen DeGeneres
by my favorite psychologist,Ellen DeGeneres. Ellen DeGeneres(2003年<此时此地>片段)
Ellen DeGeneres (Excerpt from "Here and Now" in 2003): 我前几天在看新闻
So I was watching the news the other day. "由Paxal(抗抑郁药)赞助" 看完真的要吃 非常聪明的广告
Brought to you by Paxal. Well now I need it. Smart advertising. 我小时候每天只播一次新闻
That's another thing when i was a kid the news was once a day. 错过了就没得看了
You either caught it or missed it. 现在全天候都有新闻 这还不够
Now the news is on 24 hours a day. And that's not enough. 主持人在讲 下面还有滚动字幕
They got a guy talking and there's a crawl down there. 你一边看主持人 一边看滚动字幕
So you got that guy talkin and you got the crawl going 你还一边上网发表评论
and you're online and you put your opinion and you put.. "不 我要说不..."
"Nooo!!..I said to that nooo...!" 又有一条滚动字幕不停播放
There should be one crawl that goes around over and over again: "情况持续恶化" 还有完没完
"Things are getting worse". That's all we need. 还有本地新闻 “天啊 他们想你”
And the local news- man! They want to you 每个新闻节目都看 是吧?
to watch every broadcast they've got,don't they? 你看了自己想看的还不够
It's not good enough you watch the one you want? 他们还会想噱头来吊你胃口
They just... These teases get you to watch it later on. 这种做法太可恶了
They are so incredible cruel. "这算得上全世界最可怕的东西"
"It could be the most deadly thing in the world "有可能就出现在你的餐桌上"
that you may be having it for dinner. "今晚11点为您揭晓"
We'll tell you what it is tonight at 11." 是...青豆吗?
Is it ..peas? 我觉得这些主播很可怜
I feel sorry for the news-casters,you know. 我们可以关掉电视 但他们的工作就是
We can turn it off. But that's their job and they have to read 读这些报道和字幕提示机上的字
these stories and they're just coming up at the teleprompter. 他们不知道下一条新闻是什么
They don't know what's coming up and they got to 他们的情绪大起大落
go through these range of emotions and that... "无一生还",下一条
"There were no survivors. And next, 哪种糖能帮你减肥?继续下一条
which candybar helps you lose weight? Still to come, 有个小行星正撞向地球
it's an asteroid heading towards earth. 但先让我们来找找城里哪家批萨芝士最多
But first,where to find the cheesiest pizza in town? 有令人不安的研究表明研究很令人不安
Also,a disturbing new study finds that studies are disturbing." 她真的是我所认识的最聪明的心理学家
She really is one of the most brilliant psychologists I know. 这个学期我还会放很多她的录像
And we'll see a lot of her throughout the semester. 所以说媒体是罪魁祸首
Now...so the media does it. 确实媒体把大量关注点放在负面新闻上
The media does focus to the great extent on the negative. 但这样也不全是坏事
And that's not just a bad thing. 因为在公民社会 媒体的职能之一是
Because one of the roles of media in a civil society 把应该纠正的错误行为公诸于世 鼓励人们
is to highlight wrongs that can be righted,to inspire people, 去行动 去改变 让世界变得更美好
to act,to change,to make the world a better place. 但是我们要认识到
However,we need to realize 媒体报道时并不是就事论事
that the media doesn't just report reality as it is. 而是单独强调事件中的某几个方面
It highlights certain aspects of reality. 所以就会涉及媒体偏见了
And there is a media bias involved. 媒体偏见并不是说 左倾的CNN
Now the media bias is not,you know,left-leaning CNN 和路透社对右倾的福克斯和华尔街有偏见
or Reuters versus right-leaning Fox and Wall Street Journal. 这不是我所说的媒体偏见
That's not the bias I am talking about. 我说的偏见是一种倾向于负面的偏见
I am talking about bias toward the negative. 媒体关注突出的是负面
The media focuses,highlights the negative. 它就像一面放大镜 而不是眼镜
It acts as a magnifying glass rather than as a looking glass. 我们需要记住这点 并对此加以纠正
And we need to keep that in mind,and to correct for that. 媒体报道时没有就事论事
The media dosen't just reflect reality as it is. 纽约时报头版上的不是全面的事实
Reality is not the frontpage of the New York Times 华尔街日报上的头版不是全面的事实
or the Wall Street Journal. That's not reality. 它们只是突出事件中的某个方面 加以放大
That's highlighting a specific area of reality and magnifying it. 它强调负面 关注负面
It accentuates the negative,focuses on the negative- 土耳其发动的战争 科索沃的流血事件
the war in,with Turkey,or,the blood spilled in Kosovo, 或者说母亲弃儿 仇恨事件
or the mom leaving her child. The hatred. 媒体这样做会造成
And what it does,when it does that, 正面新闻得不到足够关注 大家想想
is also underrepresent the positive. Now if you think about it, 这两种做法正是我们之前讲过的
this is exactly two of the three mental distortions 三种心理扭曲中的两种
that we talked about. 放大消极 缩小积极
Magnifying the negative. Minimizing the positive. 也就是说媒体扭曲了我们的观点
In other words,what the media does is to distort our perception. 它实际上让我们变成了悲观主义者
It actually makes us into pessimists, 尤其是现在一天24小时都有新闻
especially because the news is on 24 hours a day. 我们不停地受到消极的轰炸
And we are constantly bombarded by negativity 一个接着一个
after negativity after negativity. 我们能从哪里听到正面新闻?
And where do we get the positive? 新闻报道最后30秒
30 seconds at the end of the news. 没错 这世界还是有点好事的
Oh yes,there's also a little bit good stuff going on. 这样做只是为了让你笑一笑 让你明天
And it's just to make you smile so that you come back tomorrow 或下一小时 继续收看更多的坏消息
or the next hour for more bad news. 一个接一个的负面消息
Negativity after negativity after negativity. 扭曲 造成认知扭曲
Distorting. Creating these cognitive distortions, 这就是我们之前学认知治疗
the psychological traps that we talked about 和认知行为时 谈到的心理陷阱
under cognitive behavior,under cognitive therapy. 我们成为悲观主义者 有没有人想为什么大部分人
And we become pessimistic. Is it any wonder that most people 是悲观主义者? 当媒体对我们有那么大影响力时
are pessimistic when the media has such an impact on us? 我这样说不是贬低媒体的作用
Again,not to belittle the role of the media. 我这样说是为了突出
But what I am doing is highlighting certain aspect 我们需要认清并且反对的一个方面
that we need to be cognizant of,that we need to counter. 我们怎么反对...等一下再谈这个
And how we counter- we'll talk about it in a minute. 媒体突出什么?欺诈行为 例如玛莎家居
So what does the media highlight? The frauds- Martha Stewart, 安然 世界通讯公司 突出它们的欺诈行为
or Enron,or Worldcom. Highlighting these frauds, 而不是去报道世界上每天都发生的
but not reporting on the millions 另外那几百几千亿宗的正当交易
and billions of honest transactions that takes place everyday, 此时此刻就有很多正当交易了
right now as we speak. 强调负面 无视正面
Highlighting the negative. Ignoring the positive. 在我们身边每时每刻都在发生的
Millions and billions of honest transactions taking place 几百几千亿的正当交易
all the time,all around us constantly. 其他正在发生的事呢?我们...
Now what else is happening? What we are doing, 或者说媒体推动我们
what the media is helping us to do is extrapolate 从一些负面例子中进行联想演绎
from a few instances where people want to hurt, 而无视了其他几十亿人
while ignoring the millions and billions of people 贡献他们的人生为世界传播幸福
who are dedicating their lives to helping spread the happiness 例如派送食物的救助站
in the world,whether it's in soup kitchens 让世界变得更好
to help the world a better place, 或者在后院里写文章
or whether it's writing in our back yard. Over 1800 1800多名哈佛学生在PBHA组织里当志愿者
Harvard students volunteer as part of Phillips Brooks House. 想想我之前谈过的错误刻板印象
Remember the false stereotype that I talked about- 不管是在哈佛还是在全美国
whether it's here at Harvard or in the United States, 很多人花了很多时间去帮助别人
so many people dedicate so much time to helping. 但我们关注的却是几个负面的
And yet the focus is on the few that hurt. 这会在我们头脑里形成一种观念
And that creates certain scheme in our mind 我们会觉得这个世界是一个很糟糕的地方
while we think the world must be a bad place. 现在我们特别关注恐怖主义
The focuses are on terrorism primarily. 但那几十亿个
But what about the millions and billions of people 想生活在和平中的人呢?这并不代表
who want to live in peace? Again,this doesn't mean 我们要无视恐怖主义 或其他负面新闻
we need to ignore terrorism or the bad,or the negative – 这是媒体一个很重要的职能
this is one important role of the media. 但同时我们不应该无视了积极的新闻
At the same time,we shouldn't also ignore the good. 媒体的关注大部份都是那些伤害别人的人
The focus in media is mostly on people hurting other people. 例如关注强暴
For example,through rape,while ignoring 无视了几十亿人的正常性爱
millions and billions of people who are making love everyday. 这不仅发生在童话故事里
And not just in fairy tales, 世界各地的人...我不认识他们
people all over the world- I've no idea who they are. 但愿他们不在这个教室里 这是谷歌搜来的图片
I hope they are not in the classroom. There is Google image. 不只是世界各地的人 在哈佛这里的人
And not just around the world. Also,right here- in Harvard yard. 我不知道他们现在还做不做这个调查
I don't know if they still have this survey, 但我在网上找到最近的一个是04年的
but the last one I found online was 04. 我不知道后来发生了什么事 你们当中
I don't know what happened since. Now for those of you 有些人不相信在哈佛也有人
who don't believe that there are people also at Harvard 在这里在做爱的
right here who make love. 这证明了的确有这些人存在
Here is a proof of positive that some do. 他真可爱 那婴儿很可爱
He's so cute. And the baby is adorable. 好了
OK. OK. OK. 我并非说我们在无视消极的新闻
Now what I'm saying here is not that we need to ignore the bad, 无视社会存在的问题
not that we need to ignore what's not working. 我们应该关注这些问题
We should focus on it. We should look at it. 我们应该改善世界 但同时
We should improve the world. At the same time, 我们还要明白 那些跟乐观主义者
we should also understand that people who say to the optimist, 和积极者说"实际点"的人犯了以偏概全的错误
to the benefit finder "Get real" are actually missing the point. 因为脱离实际的不是积极者
Because it's not the benefit finder who's detached. 相反是消极者
It's the fault finder who is. 因为世界上好事多过坏事 多得多
Because there is much more good in the world than bad. Much more. 事实上 看到积极占"整整一半"还不够
In fact,it's not just about focusing on the "full half" 看到一半还不够 要看到那90%
or,the "full half". It's focusing on the 90%. 因为世界上好事比坏事多得多
Because there is a lot more good than bad in our world. 我们需要关注它们 不仅因为这样做是好事
And it's important not just because it is a nice thing to do, 不仅因为这样做能让我们更健康更幸福
not just because it makes us healthier and happier. 还因为关注能创造现实
It's important because focus creates reality. 我们都明白这个道理
I mean we saw it on so many levels. 当我们看到公车上没人照看的小孩
We saw it with the children on the bus that we didn't notice. 当Marva Collins说以下这句话时
We saw it when it came to Marva Collins who said "我们要关注人性中伟大的种子"
"let's focus on the seed of greatness in these individuals". 我们在恢复性研究里看过
We saw it with the research on resilience 当关注点从"为什么这么多人失败了"
when the focus was on "why are so many failing" versus 转变为"为什么情况这么困难,但有些人能成功"
"what make some individuals succeed" 我们就能明白这个道理
despite the unfavorable circumstances. 关注创造现实 大家想想
Focus creates reality. Also,think about it. 当我们看到诈骗罪时
I mean when we read about frauds 看到报纸上经常报道的不正当行为时 我们开始相信
and dishonesty in newspaper constantly,what we begin to believe- 我们开始相信
what we naturally begin to believe is "你想成功?"
"well,you want to be successful? 你想成为财富500强的CEO?
You want to become the CEO of a Fortune 500 company, 像安然那样的公司?那你就要犯诈骗罪
like Enron? You have to engage in fraud. 除此以外,没有别的成功道路了 为什么?
There is no real other way to succeed. Why? 因为另外那几百万个
Because the millions of other people 靠正当途径成功的人 没有被报道
who are succeeding honestly are not reported on, 大部分都没有被报道 我们关注的是负面
are mostly not reported on. And that's what we focus on. 我并非说揭发者存在并不重要
Not to say it's not important to have whistle blower 报道负面新闻并不重要 但同样重要的是
and to talk about these things. It's equally important though 我们还要关注那些正直而且成功的人
to also focus on those who do it honestly and well, 因为他们才是大多数 超过90%
because there are vast majority,way over 90%. 因为如果不这样做 那些人就会想
Because if we don't,then the person will think "well, "如果我想成为成功的商人"
if I want to succeed in business, "那我就要做违规的事"
then you know I have to bend the rules". 当他们要作出道德决定时
And when an ethical decision comes up, 当他们在35岁当上经理时 他们就会想
when he or she becomes the manager at the age of 35,they say "成功的唯一途径就是不要太守规矩
"well,the only way to succeed is I bend the rules slightly". 这就形成了自我实现预言
And that creates self-fulfilling prophecy. 这里有多少人...说真的 请大家举手
Or,how many people here- seriously show of hands- 想过进入政界 成为州长
once thought of going into politics,becoming governor, 总统或首相的?
or President,or Prime Minister? 有多少人想过...除了我
How many people thought of going...No,other than me. 好的 很多 我们知道
OK,quite a lot. I mean,we know that, 在哈佛有很多
at Harvard,there are quite a few... 除了那些举手的人
Now out of those who put the hands up, 有多少人听过别人说
how many people were told by others "你不要进入政界 你太诚实了"?
"you shouldn't go into politics- you are too honest"? 太老实 我们经常听到这样的话
Too honest. You know,we hear it all the time. 这就成了自我实现预言
And that becomes self-fulfilling prophecy, 因为很多本来会从政改善世界的诚实人
because many honest people who could potentially make the world 有了这种想法后就不从政了
a better place by going into politics don't go in. 因为别人都说"政客是骗子"
Because "politicians are crooks". 政客不是骗子 有些政客
Well,politicians are not crooks. Yes,there are politicians 是骗子 但他们只占少数
who are crooks,but they are the minority. 大部分都是诚实工作
The majority do honest work, 想让世界变得更美好的
want to make the world a better place. 他们确实会犯错误 毕竟他们也是人
They surely make mistakes. They are human after all, 但他们的意图是好的 他们有道德操守
but with good intentions,within ethical code. 虽然我们都关注坏事 但世界上还是有很多好事
You know it's a wonder that there is so much good in our world, 这确实算是一个奇迹
while the focus is so much on the bad. 在我来看 真的是一个奇迹
It really is a wonder to me. 这体现了人性的强大
It just shows how powerful human nature, 我们人性的善良因子的强大
and how powerful the good part of our nature is, 因为我们能保持这份善良
because we can sustain goodness. 还有 我们脑袋里不停有个声音在说
Also,how about this?- The constant chattering in our mind is "为什么我不这样做 为什么我还没看书?"
"why didn't I do this? Why haven't I done the reading yet? "为什么我还没写完论文?"
Why haven't I completed my paper? "为什么我要跟他说这种话?"
Why did I say that to that person? "为什么她要跟我说这种话?"大部份都是消极的
Why did she said that back to me?" Mostly,negative chatter. 我们多久才听到这样的声音一次
How often do we have the chatter "我今天跟别人聊得很开心?"
"well you know I have a really lovely conversation today"? "我刚做完这么多工作 我太高效了"
Or "you know,I just finish so much work- I was productive. "我做得很好 我刚拿了A-的成绩"
I did so well." "Wow,I just got an A- "我都没怎么花精力"
and I didn't even work that hard for it." 当然 在这门课是不可能的 在别的课程上
I mean,of course,not here,but seen other places. 为什么我们脑袋里很少这种积极的声音?
Why don't we have these kind of chattering in our mind? 因为我们的观念都关注在消极上
Again,because our schema focuses on negative. 我们下周再来谈改变
We are going to talk about change next week 我们会明白媒体在我们脑袋里
and we'll understand there are actual neural pathways 形成了一条神经通道
that have been created by media, 因为它让我们关注于消极问题上
by the focus on what is not working. Having created it 所以我们慢慢就变成了消极者
so we gravitate toward becoming fault finders. 怎么改变?我们等一下再谈这个问题
How we change that? We'll talk about that in a minute. 关注于好事上是很重要的
It's important to focus on the good. 你知道人们怎么评价甘地吗?
You know what they say about Ghandi? 他为他国家做的最重要的一件事是
That the most important thing that he did 他使印度为自己感到自豪
for his country that he made India proud of itself. 他使印度为自己感到自豪 这是伟迹
He made India proud of itself. That is so important to do. 美国呢?你们为美国感到自豪吗?
What about America? Are you proud of America? 我们住在这里 这里的大部分美国人
Do we living here or,as Americans,the majority here, 你们让美国为自己感到自豪吗?
do you make America proud of itself? 你们知道美国也有缺点 不是一个完美国度
Because you know America has faults. It is not a perfect country. 它从建国起就在犯错 以后还会继续犯
It has made mistakes from 1776 and will continue to 希望还会犯很多年
make mistakes for,hopefully for many years to come. 但我还是说这是一个伟大的国度
But still,I would argue,the greatest country in the world. 很多人想来这里生活 为什么?
So many people want to come here,want to live here. Why? 因为这里的自由和机会
Because of the freedom. Because of the opportunities. 虽然不完美 但这是一个伟大的国度
Again,not perfect,but a great country. 我们感激美国吗?我们感激它的伟大之处吗?
Do we appreciate America? Do we appreciate its greatness? 因为如果我们不感激 我们会付出很大的代价
Because if we don't,we can pay a high price. 现在国内很流行"抨击美国"
It's in vogue now "US bashing" in this country. In this place. 当我们专注于抨击时
And the problem is when we just focus on bashing, 当我们专注于消极时
when we just focus on the negative, 我们没有改善现实 反而使其恶化
we create a worse reality rather than improving the reality. 没错 我们需要有批判精神
So yes,we need to be critical. 这个国家的伟大之处之一就是
And one of the virtues of this great country is that 你可以站在大街上 或者写一篇文章
you can stand out in the street or write in articles 批评政客 制度 其他人
and critize the politicians,the system,other people. 这就是这个国家对世界的重大贡献之一:言论自由
It's one of the great contributions of this country: free speech. 但同时我们有这种自由
But at the same time,we also have the freedom 我们应该把这种自由用于专注
and we should exercise the freedom to focus on 社会中的好现象
what is working on the good. 因为感激很重要 不管是感激一个国家
Because appreciating is important,whether it's a country, 一段关系 一个人
whether it's a relationship,whether it's individual, 一个学生还是一个老师
whether it's students,whether it's teachers. 感激很重要
Appreciation is important. 我从字典查来"appreciate"的意思:重视其价值
The meaning of "appreciate" from dictionary: valuing; 认同我们身边的人或世界中最好的一面
the act of recognizing the best in people or the world around us; 肯定过去和现在的优点和潜力
affirming past and present strengths and potentials; 感激那些为生物
to perceive those things that 赐予生命 健康 活力和优点的事物
give life (health,vitality,excellence) to living systems. appreciate的第一个意思就是感激
So the first meaning of appreciate is to say thank you. 这是一种好行为
That's a nice thing to do, 但它不只是一种好行为
but it's much more than just a nice thing to do. 我们以前谈过这点
We talked about this before. "appreciate"第二个意思是增值
The second meaning of appreciate is increasing value: 经济增值 银行里的钱增值
the economy appreciates; money in the bank appreciates. 这个意思很重要
And that's an important meaning, 因为当我们感激好事时 好事增值
because when we appreciate the good,the good appreciates. 当我们感激生活中的好事时
When we appreciate the good in our lives, 当我们感激其他人的善良时
when we appreciate the good in other people, 当你感激这个国家的伟大之处时
when you appreciate the good in our country, 好事就会增多 可惜反之亦然
we get more of it. Unfortunately,the opposite is also the case. 当我们不懂欣赏时 不管是我们自己
When we don't appreciate something,whether it's ourselves, 我们国家 还是我们的恋情
whether it's our country,whether it's our relationship, 好事就会贬值 这点我以前就讲过了
the good depreciates. Remember I talked about it in the past. 有没想过为什么很多恋情不顺利
Is it any wonder so many relationships flounder, 蜜月期过后就撑不下去
fail after the honeymoon phase? 人们都会问"出什么问题了?"
If the main question becomes "what's wrong?" 或者"我们怎么能改善这段关系?"
or "How can we improve the relationship?" 如果我们单纯问这些问题
and if we just ask this question, 我们就会专注于问题和弱点上
our focus becomes on what is not working,on the weaknesses. 我们就会无视优点
And we ignore the virtues,the strength, 顺利的地方
the things that worked and are working. 当我们不专注于优点上 优点就会贬值
And when we don't focus on these things,they depreciate. 在我们眼里甚至看不到这些优点的存在
As far as we are concerned,they don't exist, 就像在你眼里 公车上那个小孩
just like the children on the bus that not exist for you 是不存在的一样
as far as you were concerned. 本质上 感激能形成一个良性循环
What appreciating does is in essence create a growth spiral. 我来解释一下 我来随便举一个例子
Let me expand. Let me just give you a random example. 例如 星期一早上 或星期二早上
Let's say,Monday morning,or Tuesday morning, 你正走向1504室
you are walking toward 1504. 突然你看到你的一个朋友
And suddenly you see a friend of yours. 你知道这个朋友是个很真诚的人
A friend of yours you know who's genuine, 你信任的一个人 你朋友看着你
is real- someone you trust. And your friend looks at you 然后说"你看起来真精神"
and says,"Wow. You look fantastic!" 这时候你会有什么感觉?你会觉得自己很精神
Now,how do you feel at that point? You feel fantastic. 你走路会走得更得意
And you know you walk a little bit more pride, 然后你走进这间教室
more proud and you walk into the classroom just here. 另一个朋友看到你说"你看起来真精神"
And another friend sees you and says,"Wow! You look fantastic!" 这时你会有什么感觉?更精神了
And how do you feel at this point? Well,fantastic-er! 然后你进来 坐下
And then you come in. You sit down here. 另一个一个月没见面的朋友
And another friend who you haven't seen for a month sees you, "你真精神" 这时你有什么感觉?
"Wow! You look fantastic!" And how do you feel at this point? 你精神到不能再精神了,往复循环
Fantastic-ist! And so on and so on and so on- 你这天就会越过越好
made you day in an upward spiral. 现在假设是另一种情境
Now think about a slightly different scenario. 星期四早上你走进1504课室
You walk in 1504 on Thursday morning. 突然一个你信任和重视的朋友
And suddenly a friend of yours whom you trust 看到你跟你说"天啊 你怎么了?"
and value sees you and says,"oh my God,what's wrong?" 本来你没事的
Now there may have been nothing wrong before; 但现在有事了 你走进教室
there is a lot wrong now. And you walk in the door, 有人看到你说"天啊"
and someone sees you and says,"oh my Lord." 你会有什么感觉?你会觉得更糟了
And how do you feel? You feel even worse. 你刚坐下看到又有人看着你
And you sit down and you see someone else who looks at you, 完全震惊了
just completely shocked. 这时你的感觉跌到谷底了
And you are feeling worse-r and worse-ist. 恶性循环 越来越糟
And so on and so on and so on in a downward spiral. 感激能形成良性循环
Appreciation creates upward spiral. 我们知道有时候 一日之始听到的
And we know,sometimes,one sentence,one word at the beginning 一句话一个词能让你过上愉快的一天 甚至一周
of the day- and you have a wonderful day,or week. 这个研究表明一句话如何
This research showing how a single sentence very often 影响一生 这是Bandura做的研究
can impact an entire life. This is work done by Bandura. 一句感激之言就能让我们有力量支撑下去
Single sentence of appreciation can give us strength to go on. 但这有一个关键:感激一定要出自真心诚意
Now the key here: it has to be genuine appreciation. 等我们谈到自尊时 我们会谈到
One of the things we'll talk about when we discuss self-esteem 虚假的感激会带来多大的伤害
is how destructive and harmful ingenuine appreciation is. 我不是说你们的男朋友或女朋友
And now I am not talking about your boyfriend or girlfriend 穿着同一身衣服出去玩了一晚
ask you "so how do I look" having just come out, 第二天回来问你"我好看吗?"
come back from a day and worn something the whole night. 你当然不能说"很难看"
You are not going to tell them "well,actually awful". 我们说的不是这种灰色地带
So OK. We are not talking about these grey areas. 感激一定要真诚 要跟实际相关
But it has to be real. It has to be connected to reality. 等我们讲到自尊时再深入谈这点
We'll talk about that much more when we talk about self-esteem. 但关键是你要明白
The key though is that you need to understand 你总能找到可以感激的东西
there is always something real to appreciate. 想想刚才的癌症病人研究 或者艾滋病人研究
Think about the study with the cancer patients,or AIDS patients. 连他们都能在这么悲惨的境况中
Even they were able to find something good in a very difficult, 找到值得感激的事 当他们感激时
tragic scenario,situation. And when they appreciate the good, 当他们从坏事中看到好事时 好事就会升值
when they find benefit in that situation,the good appreciates. 越变越好 Oprah是真正的积极者
It grows. Oprah,a real benefit finder: "你专注的东西会变大 当你专注于生活中的好事上"
"What you focus on expands,and when you focus on the goodness "你就能创造出更多好事"
in your life,you create more of it. "机会 恋情 甚至钱都会向你滚来"
Opportunities,relationships,even money flowed my way "当我学会感激"
when I learned to be grateful "不管我生活中发生了什么事"
no matter what happened in my life." 因为我们专注的东西会升值
Because what we focus on appreciates. 再次说明 我一直在课堂上
Again,the metaphore that I have been talking about 用这个比喻:种子
throughout the course: the seed- 如果我们不给它浇水 它会怎样?
what happens to a seed if we don't water it? 如果我们不让阳光照射它 它会怎么样?
If we don't shed a light on it? 这种子就会凋萎死去
What happens to that seed is that it withers and dies. 很可惜 人类的大部分潜力就是这样被扼杀的
And that,unfortunately,is the fate of most human potential. 大部份恋情和国家的潜力
Most relationship potential. Most countries. 如果我们想它成长 想它开花
And if we want it to grow,want it to blossom, 我们就要让阳光照射它 给它浇水
we have to shed a light on it. We have to water it. Marva Collins正是这样对待她每个学生
This is exactly what Marva Collins did with the seed of greatness 身上的伟大的种子
that existed in every one of her students. 在经典的皮格马利翁实验中我们看到
This is what the Pygmalion,the classic experiment showed, 当老师的专注投在那些
was that when teachers were made to focus on the potential 被挑为"潜力生"的潜力上时
in those individuals who were deemed "fast spurters". 当老师专注于他们时 就等于投射了阳光
When they were made to focus on it,to shed a light on- 当阳光投射在他们的潜力上时
when a light is shed on their potential, 这些学生就开始变聪明
that's when the children grew. 他们的潜力就发挥得更充分
That's when they fulfilled much more of their potential. 那我们怎么改变这种错误的思维呢?
So how do we correct the false schema? 我们该怎么做?我跟大家说一些
What do we do about it? Let me share with you something 社会层面上的做法 和一些个人层面上的做法
on the societal level,something on the individual level. 在社会层面上 我们可以创造好消息
On the societal level,create good news. 现在对好消息的报道不够 有人说这好消息没市场
Not enough of it around. Now people say it's not marketable, 很无聊 没错 有很多是没市场
it's boring- well,OK. A lot of it is not marketable. 部分原因是因为好事太平淡无奇了
Part of it is because it is the norm,it's the usual. 但我们可以报道伟大的技术突破
But why not report on the great technical advances 让我们的生活变得更美好
that are making life better? 为什么不报道那些伟大的医学进步
Why not report much more on the great medical advances? 为什么不多点报道和平?健康?
Why not report much more on peace? And well-being? 大家都知道和平代表这个故事没有吸引力了
You know a situation stops being interesting once there is peace. 有战争时才有吸引力
It's interesting when there's a war. 那何不更多关注这些领域?
Well why not focus more on these areas? 这是一份在网上成立的报纸
Here is a newspaper that was started online- 好新闻网络 我强烈建议大家去看看
Good News Network,that I highly recommend you to go onto. 几年前才开始的
Just in a couple of last years it was started. 它让大家更加关注好现象
Getting people to focus on what is working. 大家都知道爱因斯坦
You know about Albert Einstein, 53年那一天柬埔寨获得了独立
about Cambodia gaining independence on that day in '53. 柏林墙 它会提醒我们
Berlin Wall. You know,focusing, 自己历史上的好事和今天的好事
reminding ourselves of historical good as well as on present good 他们会谈论一些很好的消息
and they have great news that they talk about. 另外一个叫Geemundo 我不知道这是什么意思
Another,Geemundo,another,I don't even know what that means 这是另一个专注于好现象的网上报纸
but another online newspaepr that focuses on things that work. 除了看华尔街日报和纽约时报
Why not start a day with that,well,in addition to opening 何不一大早就上来看看
the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times. 看看这些网站 抵消我们的负面思维
Looking at that as well. Just to counter the negative schema. 艺术 对于改善世界非常重要
Art. So important. So important in creating a better world, 对于改变我们的内在思维非常重要
in changing our internal schema. 看看文艺复兴画家弗米尔画中的光
Look at the light in Vermeer's- Renaissance artist in his picture 在看不到多少曙光的时候的一束光
A light during a time when there was not much light. 因为那时是中世纪 黑暗时代
I mean consider the Dark Ages. The Middle Ages. 但画家专注于一束光这个好现象上
But the artists focused on what is working on the light, 专注在人的潜力上 为文艺复兴奠定基础
on the human potential and paved the way the Renaissance. 一切从艺术开始 又如在18 19世纪 浪漫主义
It all started with arts. Or in 18th and 19th century,Romantics. 贝多芬或雨果 他们都遭遇很悲惨的困境
Beethoven or Victor Hugo. They encountered a harsh reality. 但他们专注于崇高伟大的事业上
But they focused also on heroic,on the great, 专注于人的潜力上 亚里士多德曾经说过
on the human potential. Aristotle once said, "小说比历史更重要"
"fiction is more important than history." 因为历史只是一五一十地描述生活
Because history depicts life as it is, 而小说则是描述对生活的憧憬
where the fiction depicts life as it can or ought to be. 对生活的憧憬 人的潜力
As it can or ought to be. The human potential. 这为世界上更高层次的自由和平等
And that paved the way to much higher levels of freedom 奠定了基础 又如上世纪30年代的美国
and equality in the world. Or 1930s' America. 很大程度上 好莱坞鼎盛时期的导演Cukor
In many ways the heyday of Hollywood were directors like Cukor, Capra Sturges正是在大萧条时期
Capra,Sturges,created masterworks during a time 拍出他们的代表作
when there was Great Depression. 人们会去电影院看这些电影
And people used to go to the cinema and watched these films 鼓励他们 帮助他们度过困难时期
to inspire them and helped them get through the difficult time- 这段时期同时也正好是...
it was also between the two- you know, 一战和二战中间 全世界都陷入困境
the Great War and the WWII. Difficult time in the world. 正在复原的世界突然又陷入另一场大战
World recovering and then plunging into another war. 但这些艺术家还是不停地鼓励人们
And yet the artists continued to inspire. 他们并非无视问题 而是在改善
Not ignoring what is not working. Not ignoring,but improving. 这是我最爱的电影《苏利文的旅行》
That,by the way,is my favorite movie,Sullivan's Travels. 现代艺术也是 如果我们走进画廊
Modern art as well. Wouldn't it be lovely if we go into a gallery 感受到艺术对我们的鼓励 不管是摄影
and we feel inspired by the art- whether it's by photography, 雕塑 电影 还是书 这样不是很好吗?
whether it's by sculpting,whether it's by movies or books? 还有更多的例子
There has be much more of it. 艺术家的作用之一也是突出
Again,one of the roles of the artists is also to highlight 社会中的问题 使我们对其加以改正
what is not working so that it is improved. 但如果艺术家 如果一个人真的很想
But if an artist,if an individual is really concerned about 把好事发扬光大 那么光是专注于不好的现象上
improving the good in the world,it is not enough to only focus 是远远不够的
or highlight what's not working. 因为如果我们不突出好事
Because if we don't highlight the good, 如果我们不感激好事 好事就会贬值
if we don't appreciate the good as well,the good depreciates. 基本上这就是幸福心理学的本质
Positive psychology- this is what it is very much about. 大家想想幸福心理学家做的两件事
Remember there are two things that positive psychologists do. 们做的第一件事是
What they study the first thing that 研究好的现象 第二件事是
they do is focusing on what works. Second thing that 他们专注于优秀中的优秀
they do is focusing on the extraordinary on the tip of the stem. 通过这样做 引用Miriam的话
And by doing that,the words of Miriam, 他们使优秀民主化
they democratize excellence. 因为他们专注于好事上
Because they are focusing on the good, 他们没有忽视每个人的优秀之处
not ignoring what works in each individuals, 没有忽视那些优秀不凡的人
not ignoring the extraordinary individuals, 没有忽视世界上的Marva Collins
the Marva Collins of the world, 没有忽视高危人群中那些不屈不抗的孩子
the resilient kids in at-risk population and so on. 除了媒体外 还有一个原因导致我们
Another reason in addition to media why we tend to 忽视了好事 专注于坏事上
ignore the good and focus mostly on the bad is that we adapt. 我们会适应于习以为常的事
We adapt to what is common and what drives us, 驱动我们 吸引我们的是不平常的事
what's interesting to us is the uncommon. 是反常 而不是常态
The exception rather than the rule. 因为世界上有很多好事
And because there is so much more good in the world- 好事太平常了 我们就习惯了
it's so much more common,we adapt to it. 我们就再也看不到好事 而坏事
We stop seeing it after a while,whereas the bad- 是一种反常 总能吸引到我们的注意力 为什么?
the exception always captures our attention. Why? 因为大自然把我们造就成这样 我们是变化探测器
Because nature create us such that we are changed detecters. 我们是变化探测器 当有变化发生时
We are changed detecters. And whenever there is a change, 我们的头脑就马上专注于变化上
our mind immediately goes to that change. 有些不同的事发生了 不管是我们看见
Something different that happens,whether it's something we see, 还是听见
or something we hear (sound: car alarm set off in the background) 这是给那些睡着的同学听的
for those of you who were asleep. 使我们惊醒的是反常 适应性是好事
It's the exception that wakes us up. And that's a good thing. 大自然把我们造就成这样是好事
It's a good thing that nature creates us that way. 因为它能帮我们逃离险境
Because it helps us in case of danger. 例如 当我们听到有狮子
Because it helps us for example,hear when there is a lion 向我们走来 或者想悄悄接近我们时
coming toward us or trying to creep up toward us. 它能帮我们闻到毒味
It helps us smell poison. 一些不同的事 发生了变化的事
Something that is different,that changed. 还帮我们听到熟睡的宝宝的动静
It also helps us hear a sleeping baby it's incredible 这太厉害了 沉睡时 你知道...
how this works. Fast asleep- you know there, 可能房子塌下来了 但你不会醒来
there can be- the house may be falling. You don't get up, 但如果宝宝在哭 你就会马上醒来
but there is a baby crying and you are up in a second. 我们都是变化探测器 大自然把我们造就成这样
We are change detectors. And nature created us such- 或者说上帝把我们造成这样 让我们能更好地生存
or God has created us such so that we can survive better. 某些程度上来说 适应性是好事
Now it's actually a good thing that we adapt on a few levels. 首先 如果我们不适应
First of all,if we didn't adapt, 我们就会听到各种各样的吵声 我们会变疯的
if we are hearing all the noises,we will quite literally go nuts 因为我们现在周围有很多嘈杂声
Because there are so many noises right now 除了我们在听的声音外
going on in addition to what you are listening to. 打字声 呼吸声
People typing. People breathing. 偶尔外面传来的汽车声
Once in a while car from the outside. 如果我们什么都听得见 我们会疯的
And we would go crazy if we were always atune to everyithing 所以适应性是件好事
that was going on. So it's good that we adapt. 这就是为什么有些人住在高速公路旁边
That's why people can live literally on the highway 晚上还能睡得着
and still fall asleep at night. 因为过了一两个月 他们就听不到汽车声了
Because after a month or so,they stop hearing the cars there. 我们有亲戚住在协和地铁站附近
We have relatives in Concord, 可以说他们就住在地铁站上方
who live quite literally on top of the train. 我们去他家吃晚饭 有辆地铁经过
And we went to visit him for dinner and a train passes by. 房子震动了 声音非常大
And you know the house shakes. And it's enormous noise. 一开始
And at the beginning of the time, 我们看着对方 他笑了笑
we looked at each other,and he smiled. 第二次地铁经过时
And second time the train goes by. 房子又震动了 非常吵
The house shakes and huge noise. 我禁不住问"你不觉得烦吗?"
And I couldn't help myself and said,"Dosen't that bother you?" 他问"什么?"他不知道我在说什么
And he said,"What?" He didn't know what I was talking. 我说"地铁刚经过"
I said,"The train just passed." He said, 他说"我们现在都注意不到了"
"Oh. We don't notice it anymore "因为每隔二三十分钟就有地铁经过"
because it passes every half an hour or every 20 minutes." 他们没注意到 所以适应性是好事
They don't notice it. So good thing that we can adapt. 在困境也这样
Also in terms of difficulty. 我个人遭遇过最大的困境是
Personally the most difficult experience that I endured 1997年9月19日
was on the 19th of September,in  19th of December,1997. 当时我住在新加坡
I was living in Singapore at the time. 我最好的朋友从印尼过来看望我
My best friend was coming over from Indonesia to visit me. 那时她对我来说是世界上最重要的人
The person who was the most important to me at that time 她的飞机坠毁了 胜安航空MI185
and her plane crashed. SilkAir Flight MI 185. 在座可能有些人记得 我的世界崩溃了
Some of you may remember this. And my world crumbled. 我这辈子第一次
For the first time in my life, 觉得我不想活了 我没有了活力
I felt that I didn't want to go on anymore. I had no energy. 我打电话给家人和另外一个人
And I called up my family. And I called up another person 他对我的人生产生过很多影响
who had made a lot of difference in my life, Nathaniel Branden 出于很多原因
Nathaniel Branden,for various reasons. 首先 他是一个著名的作家兼心理学家
First of all,Nathaniel Branden had just- he's a wellknown author 他当时刚去过新加坡
and psychologist- he's just visited Singapore. 他刚见过Bonny 我打电话给他
He just met Bonny.And I called him up 因为他是心理学家 我认为他能帮我
because he was a psychologist whom I thought could help me. 还因为他45岁时失去了妻子
But also because at the age of 45,he lost his wife 她在泳池里中风发作溺水
who drowned in a pool when she had apoplectic fit. 他回家时在泳池里发现她溺水了
He found her drowned when he came back home in their pool, 他经历过这种痛苦 比我早25年
in their home. So he'd been through that,but 25 years earlier. 所以我想听听他的建议
So I wanted to talk to him to get his advice. 我在电话上连话都说不清楚
I was on the phone and could hardly get my words across- 因为我不停地哭 他跟我说
I was crying constantly. And he said to me, "Tal 我现在跟你说的话可能没意义
"Tal,what I am going to tell you now is not going to make sense. 但我说的是真的 你会撑过去的
But it's true. You are going to get over this. 我知道你会的 我们会撑过丧亲之痛 虽然很难
I know you are. We get over losses. It's difficult. 很痛苦 哭吧 把情绪释放出来
It's painful. Cry. Give the emotions their spaces. 但你会撑过去的 我们都能克服痛苦的情绪
But you are going to get over it. We get over painful emotions. 我们都能 因为如果我们不能 那只有主能救我们"
We all do. Because if we hadn't,then God help us all." 因为如果我们不能 就只有主才能救我们
Because if we hadn't,then God help us all. 过了很久
And it took a long time. 大约三个月后 我才可以重新投入工作
It was after 3 months that I could start working again. 过了一整年以后 我才感觉到
It took a whole year for me to feel some of the bounds, 我以前有的那种动力和热情
some of the passion for life that I felt before. 现在我想起Bonny 我会苦笑一下
But now I think about Bonny. And I smiled wistfully,sadly. 但我学会感激我们度过的美好时光
But I can also appreciate the good times that we have together. 感激我有荣幸认识她
And the privilege that I had of meeting her. 适应性是一种好事 很重要的一种能力
We adapt and that's a good thing. That's an important thing. 因为如果我们不能适应 就只有主才能救我们了
Because God help us all if we hadn't. 但适应性也有坏的一面
There is another side though to that equation. 有坏的一面
There is another side. 当我们适应了 我们就会习以为常
When we adapt,we also take things for granted. 这不是好事 因为我们
And that's not a good thing. Because we take for 我们对重视的家庭习以为常
granted our family that we care about so much. 我们对友情习以为常
And we take for granted our friends. 我们对在餐厅里为我们端上的饭菜
And we take for granted the food we are about to have 感到习以为常 这是多么奢侈
in the dinning hall that is served to us. What a luxury. 我们对坐在旁边的人习以为常
And we take for granted the person who's sitting next to us. 我们对在学校里上的课程习以为常
And we take for granted the classes we take here. 因为我们适应了
Because we adapt. 在处理消极的事情时 适应性是好事
And it's a good thing when it comes to the negatives. 但当我们对生活习以为常时就不是好事了
It's not such a good thing when we take life for granted. 我们需要问的一个问题是
And the question we need to ask is: 能不能做到两全其美?
is it possible to have it all? 能不能适应消极的同时
Is it possible to adapt to the negatives,but at the same time, 不对积极的东西习以为常
not to adapt as much to the positive. 有一个犹太传统故事里讲到一个男人
There's a story in the Jewish tradition about a man 住在一个犹太小村里
who is living in one of the shtetls, 东欧的一个犹太小村 他过得很苦
one of the villages in Eastern Europe. And he really had it bad. 他住在一间小房子里 家里有很多孩子
I mean he was living in a tiny home with many kids, 他妻子整天在耳边唠叨
with a wife who was constantly nagging him. 他们不停地吵架 生活得太糟糕了
They were constantly fighting. And they were really terrible. 那个男人想改善他的生活 所以他去找拉比
And that man wanted to improve his law so he went to the rabbi 把他的情况告诉他
and recounted him how terrible his life is. 他说"我们活在小房子里 挤满了孩子"
He said "look. We live in a small home. The kids are all over. "没有隐私"
You know no privacy whatsoever. "我妻子整天在唠叨 拉比 帮帮我"
My wife nags constantly. Rabbi,help!" 拉比说"你后院有鸡吗?"
So the rabbi said,"in your yard,do you have a chicken?" 他说"有"
So he said,"yes,we have chicken." "下周 把鸡带进屋里"
"For the next week,bring the chicken into your home." "拉比 你在说什么?我们没有地方..."
"But rabbi,what are you talking about? We have no pla..." "把鸡带进屋里"
"Bring the chicken into your home." 男人很虔城 信任他的拉比
The person was a devout man,believing his rabbi, 一整周都把鸡放在屋里
brought the chicken for the whole week in their home. 鸡毛 鸡粪 臭味 什么问题都有
Feathers. Dirt. Stinks. You name it. 孩子们吵得更凶了 他妻子更唠叨了
The kids coutinue to fight even more. His wife nags even more. "你为什么要这样对我们?房子本来就够小了"
"what are you doing to us here? Our house is small as it is." "拉比吩咐的"他们继续吵架
"The rabbi said." And they continue to fight,and bickering. 这一周终于结束了
The week finally finally ends. 他跑到拉比那里说
And he runs to the rabbi and said, "拉比 帮帮我" 拉比说"情况怎么样?"
"rabbi,help!" And the rabbi said,"how are things going?" 他说"更糟了 家里没地方了 我们整天吵"
He said,"Well,worse! No place at home. We are fighting. "很臭 太糟糕了"
It stinks. It's terrible." "孩子 你后院有牛吗?"
"My child,do you have a cow in your backyard?" "有 拉比 我们有牛"
"Yes,rabbi. We have a cow." "把鸡和牛都带进屋里一周"
"Well,bring her into the house in addition to the chickens "拉比 但是...""听我说的做"
for the week." "Rabbi,but..." "Just do it." 所以他把牛带进屋里 这一次也很糟糕
So he brings in the cow. And again,it's awful. 他鼻孔里都是这股臭味
It stinks to the enth degree in his nose. 他们一周不得安睡 太糟糕了
And they don't even sleep for the whole week. And it's terrible. 一周过去了
By the end of the week, 他整个人衣衫不整 憔悴不堪
you know he's looking terrible,disheveled. 浑身臭味 他去找拉比说
He stinks. He goes to the rabbi and says, "拉比 帮帮我 情况太糟了 糟多了"
"rabbi,help! Situation is terrible. Yes,it's so much worse." "你家后院有马吗?"
"Do you have a horse in your backyard?" "有 我知道你想怎么做了"
"Yes,rabbi. We do. But now I understand the pattern here." "把马带进屋里"
"Take the horse and bring it into your house." 他又把马带进屋里
So he takes the horse and brings it into the house. 太糟糕了 马乱踢乱叫
And it's awful. The horse is kicking and yelling 到处地跳 把东西摔坏
and jumping and breaks stuff. 家里一片混乱 吵声不断 糟多了
And there's mess and chaos and bickering and... So much worse. 终于一周过了 他跑去找拉比
And finally the week ends. He runs to the rabbi. 拉比说"现在你过得怎么样?"
And the rabbi says,"how are you doing?" "拉比 太糟了""好的 下周"
"Rabbi,it's terrible! It's awful!" "OK. For the next week, "你把动物都带出去"
why don't you take out all the animals "然后再来见我?"一周过去了
and come and see me then?" At the end of the week, 他来见拉比 拉比问"现在情况怎么样?"
he comes and the rabbi says,"how are things going?" "拉比 太好了 家里宽敞多了"
"Rabbi,it's wonderful. We have so much place. "气味太好闻了"
The smell is so good. "我们一家人乐也融融"
We are getting along now like we hadn't ever before. "孩子很高兴 非常感激你 拉比"
The kids are happy. Thank you so much,rabbi." 问题来了
Now here is the question. 我们要等到情况恶化
Do things need to get worse before we appreciate 才得到感激眼前和身边的好事吗?
what's right in front of us and all around us? 我们什么时候开始感激健康?
When do we begin to appreciate our health? 我们什么时候开始感激健康?
When do we begin to appreciate our health? 等我们或旁人的身体现出问题时
When something goes wrong with us or with someone else. 我们什么时候开始感激生活?
When do we begin to appreciate life? 当我们有危险时 当我们失去亲友时
When ours is in danger,or when we lose someone dear to us. 我们需要问自己一个问题
And the question that we need to ask ourselves is "一定要等外界发生一些异常的悲剧时
"must something external,extraordinary, 我们才开始感激习以为常的东西吗?"
unusually tragic happen for us to appreciate the ordinary?" 我们身边和内心都有无尽的幸福
You see there are treasures of happiness all around us 就在我们身边 餐厅里
and within us,right next to us- in the dinning hall, 坐在旁边的同学 在你家里的房间
sitting next to you here,in your room at home. 我们身边我们心里
There are wonderful things- things that are worth 有很多好事值得我们感激
your appreciation all around us or within us. 但我们都把它们习以为常 真的要等悲剧发生吗?
But we take them for granted and do we need to wait for that. 答案是不 如果我们把感激当成一种生活习惯
And the answer is no. No- if we learn gratitude as a way of life, 如果我们培养感恩的习惯
if we cultivate the habit of gratitude. 正如媒体培养我们成为消极者一样
It is just as the media has cultivated the fault finding. 我们可以把自己培养成积极者
We can cultivate the benefit finding. 我们可以培养感恩之心
We can cultivate grateful. 因为当我们感恩时
Because when we are grateful for something, 我们不再把好事习以为常
we do not- we no longer take it for granted. G.K.Chesterton说"你们在餐前感恩"
G. K. Chesterton: "You say grace before meals. All right. "但我听音乐会和歌剧前"
But I say grace before the concert and the opera, "在看戏剧哑剧前"
and grace before the play and pantomime, "在我打开一本书 画素描前"
and grace before I open a book,and grace before sketching, "画画前 游泳前 剑击前 拳击前 走路前 玩乐前 跳舞前"
painting,swimming,fencing,boxing,walking,playing,dancing "把钢笔头醮进墨水前 都会感恩"
and grace before I dip the pen in the ink. "感激能带来人类感受到的"
Gratitude produced some...produced the most purely joyful moments "最为单纯的快乐"
that have been known to man." 大家想想
Think about it. 想想你上次感激别人时
Think about the last time you are grateful to someone. 当你向别人表达你的感激时 你有什么感觉?
And you expressed that gratitude. How did you feel? 你使对方有什么感觉?
And how did you make the other person feel? 或者当别人感激你时?
Or someone who was grateful to you and appreciated you? 你会有一种飘起来的感觉 形成一个良性循环
You were walking on air,created this upward spiral as a result. 前提是这种感激是真诚的
When it's genuine,when it's real. 我们感激得不够
We don't do it enough. We don't do enough appreciation. 我们的感激之情表达得不够
We don't express gratitude enough, 不管是对我们吃的食物 还是写作
whether it's to the food that we eat,whether it's to writing, 不管是对朋友 还是对家人
whether it's for our friends or family. 这是在关于感激的力量方面最好的书
So this is the most wonderful books written about the power 这不是一本教材 但我等一下谈到的很多观点
of gratitude- it's not a research book,but a lot of these ideas 在这本书里都有所研究
that I'll talk about in a minute have researched. Brother David Steindl-Rast写的《论感激》
"About Gratitude" by Brother David Steindl-Rast. 他还办了一个很棒的网站 谷歌他的名字就能查到
He also has a great website. If you google his name. 我们怎么培养感激?他的建议很简单优雅
How do we cultivate gratitude? His advice is simple and gracious. "何不先审视平凡的一天?"
"Why not start by surveying a typical day? 有什么事是你不自觉地就会去处理的?
What is it that you tend to tackle with spontaneous mindfulness, 有什么事是毫不费力你就会全心投进去的?
so that without effort your whole heart is in it? 也许是你早晨喝的第一杯咖啡
Maybe it's that first cup of coffee in the morning, 让你感到温暖 睡意全无 或者是带你的狗
the way it warms you and wakes you up,or taking your dog 出去散步 或者是跟孩子玩骑背背
for a walk,or giving a little child a piggyback ride. 培养感激需要经过一次又一次的练习
It is a matter of practice of doing it over and over again 直到变成第二天性
til it becomes second nature." 直到变成习惯 直到我们把一次的感激
Til it becomes a habit. Til we take a stake of gratitude 变成我们性格的一部分
and turn it into a gratitude trait. 这是有可能做到的
And it is possible to do it. 其中一个方法就是每天都找出
One of the ways to do it is to identify everyday 一两次件 有意地专注于这些事上
just one or two things to do mindfully,to focus on them, 不管是在餐厅喝的第一杯咖啡
whether it's the first cup of coffee in the dinning hall, 还是走向教室的那段路程
whether it's the walk to class,whether it's 10 minutes 还是你独自在房间里闭着睛神集中精神
in the afternoon when you just listen to the music in your room, 听十分钟音乐
by yourself with your eyes closed and focused, 欣赏你最喜欢的歌曲
appreciating your favorite piece. 不仅花时间去变成红酒鉴赏家
Taking our time to not just become wine connoisseurs 还要成为生活的鉴赏家
but also life connoisseurs. 这门课很大程度上就是要教我们感激生活
This course is in many ways about life appreciation. 他继续写道
He continues,(Brother David Steindl-Rast): "感激之心能量度我们活得多充实
"Gratefulness is the measure of our aliveness. 对习以为常的东西 难道我们不是死了一样没感觉吗?"
Are we not dead to whatever we take for granted? "麻木就如同死亡" 大家想想
Surely to be numb is to be dead.” Think about this. 斯坦福精神学家Irvin Yalom做过很多研究
So Irvin Yalom,Stanford psychiatrist did a lot of research 研究患不治之症的病人 他找来那些只剩三个月
on terminally ill patients. He went to people who had 3 months, 六个月 最多一年的人 研究这一类人
6 months,up to a year to live,and researched this population. 他同样也发现这些人
And what he found time and again is that these people, 也有这样的感受
time and again were something to the effect of "我这辈子第一次觉得自己活着"
"for the first time in my life,I feel that I am alive." "我这辈子第一次觉得自己活着"
"For the first time in my life,I feel that I am alive." 为什么?"因为我这辈子第一次懂得呼吸的价值"
Why? "Because for the first time,I appreciate breathing." "这么多年来 我第一次感激我丈夫"
"For the first time in many years,I appreciate my husband, "我妻子 我朋友 我孩子" 感激花草
my wife,my friend,my children." Flower. The grass. 聊天 我这辈子第一次懂得感激这些东西
The conversation. For the first time of my life,I appreciate it, 而以前他们根本不关注这些东西
whereas before,the focus was just not there. 他们关注别的东西 关注困难
It was other things. On the difficulties, 关注苦况 大部份都关注消极的东西
the hardships- mostly on the negative. 记住 在我们眼里
And remember,as far as you are concerned, 公车上的孩子是不存在的
the children on a bus did not exist. 在大部分人眼里
As far as most people are concerned, 他们生命中 恋情中美好的东西
the good things in their life,in their relationships, 并不存在 因为我们并不感激它们
do not exist. Because when we are not grateful for them, 当我们对它们习以为常时 在我们眼里
when we take them for granted,as far as we are concerned, 它们就不存在 我们对它们的感觉得麻木的
they are not there. And we are numb to these things. 对于这些东西 我们像死了一样没感觉 我们需要一个警钟
We are dead to these things. And it takes a wake-up call, 像患上绝症一样 才能醒悟吗?
like a terminal disease to wake us up? 才能让我们关注我们内心或身边
To get us to focus on what is right inside us 美好的东西吗?为什么?为什么还要等?
or all around us all the time? Why? Why wait? Why wait? 有很多人研究感激的价值
There's a lot of research on the value of gratitude. 你们之前也看过了
You've read one before. 你们看过Robert Emmon写的文章
You'll be reading one of the articles by Robert Emmons 还有加大分校Michael McCullough写的文章
and Michael McCullough from UC Davis. 我把这两个研究合总结在一起
Let me summarize two studies there into one. 他们的研究就是随机挑出一组人
So what they did was essentially take random 把他们分成四组
group of people and divide them into four groups. 第一组每天晚上睡觉前
First group every night before going to bed write 都要写下至少五次他们感激的事
at least five things for which you are grateful. 大事小事都行
Big things,or little things. 第二组写下至少五件生活中遇到的
Second group write at least five hassels in your life- 与别人的争吵 坏事
five bad things that happen to you. 第三组写下至少五个
Third group write at least five things that 你比别人优秀的地方
you are better than others at- superior to others. 第四组是对照组 他们可以随便
And the fourth group- control group write about anything 写下一天中遇到的任何事 测量标准是
that happen to you during the day. The outcome measures 看他们的乐观 幸福程度
are that they looked at what optimism,happiness, 身体健康程度(过去参加这个研究的六个月
physical health (how often they visited the doctor of 他们多久去看一次医生)
the six months of the study,one of the studies), 他们对别人有多慷慨和仁慈
how generous and benevolent they were toward other people 最后还有他们达成目标的可能性
and finally how likely they were to achieve their goals 他们为自己设下的目标
that they set for themselves- 也就是说他们有多成功
in other words,how successful they were. 结果最差的那组是与人争吵的那组
The group that performed the worst was the hassels group. 生活中发生的五件坏事
Five bad things that happen to you. 结果最好的那组 最快乐的那组
The group that performed the best that is happist, 最乐观 最有可能达成目标
most optimistic,most likely to achieve their goals, 对别人最大方最仁慈 最健康的那组
most generous and benevolent toward other people and healthist, 就是每晚睡觉前
was the group every night before going to bed wrote 写下他们感激的至少五件事的那组
at least five things for which they were grateful. 对身体和心理都有好处
Both psychological and health benefits. 这个研究在很大程度上是
The study was,in many ways the beginning, 他们后来做的一连串实验的开端
one of the first studies they conducted. 这本书最近才出版
The book just came out recently, Robert Emmons写的《谢谢》非常好的一本书
called "Thanks" by Robert Emmons,which is wonderful 书中追踪了很多研究和方法
and traces through a lot more studies and research and exercise 能帮助你变得更有感激之心
that you can do to become more grateful, 把感激培养成一种生活习惯
to have gratitude as a way of life. 对身体的好处 包括心率变异性
Physiological benefits such as our heart variability, 它能预测我们是否能长寿
which is a predictor of longevity, 预测我们是否健康
which is a predictor of health is increased. 当我们感激时 副交感神经系统功能增强
The parasympathetic system increases when we are grateful. 使我们变平静 从而加强免疫系统
And that induces calm. And that strengthens our immune system. 当感激成为我们的性格 还有很多好处
There are also many benefits to trait gratefulness, 所以感激不只上一种心情 也是一种性格
so it is not just a state of being. It's also about the trait. 我们怎么培养感激?
How do we cultivate that? How do we cultivate that? 通过一次又一次的感激 我每晚都这么做
By doing it over and over again. I do this every night. 从1999年9月19日开始到现在
I've been doing it since 19th of September,1999. 从1999年9月19日一直做到现在
Since 19th of September,1999,I've been doing it. 这个研究2002年才开始 而我早就开始了
I've been doing it long before the 2002 study. 当Oprah叫我这么做时 我就开始做了
I started to do it when Oprah told me to do it. 真的 从那时起一直到现在
Really. I've been doing it ever since. 我和大家分享一下我昨晚写的
Let me share with you what I wrote about last night. 昨晚是26号 上帝 家人
It was 26 last night. OK. So God,family, 我深爱的妻子Tomush 瑜伽-我练瑜伽 David-他很棒
Tomush my love- my wife,yoga- I did yoga,David- so wonderful, Sherial-宝贝（我的孩子们） 办公时间
Sherial- precious (my two children),office hours- 我昨天在办公室过得很开心
I had office hours yesterday and I enjoyed it a lot. 这个不能说 对不起 这个也不能说 对不起
Beep- sorry. Another beep- sorry. 这门课有时候需要打马赛克
some censorship in this class is important. 需要花点时间才...
It took you a while but eh.. 这个也不能说 开玩笑的 我妻子做的汤
OK. Beep- no just kidding about this one. And Tommy's soup. 她做的青豆汤很好喝 我昨晚喝了
She made this unbelievable pea soup which I had yesterday. 大事 小事
You know,big things and little things. 大事 小事
Big things and little things. 现在也有东西值得我感激
And here are other things that I am grateful for right now. 我感激Shawn Achor
I am grateful for Shawn Achor, 这个班的首席助教
the head TF of the class. (Applause) 我感激他的工作 他的热情
I am grateful for his work,for his inspiration. 我感激Debb
I am grateful to Debb, 另一个班的首席助教
the head of TF of the other class. (Applause) 我感激所有的助教
I am grateful to the teaching fellows 他们为了你们的教育投入了很多时间
who are investing so much time in your education, 为了让你们在这门课学得幸福
in your happiness in this course. (Applause and cheers) 我感激Barry 他在幕后
I am grateful to Barry who's there behind the scenes. 大家不常见到他
You don't see him much. 但这个课堂很多东西都要靠他
But he's responsible for so much what's happening 感激他的支持 他的谦虚 为我们做了这一切
for his support,for how humble he is,doing all that. (Applause) 我感激我的学生
And I am grateful for my students, 因为没有你们 我今天就不能站在这里讲课
because it wouldn't be a class- I wouldn't be here today, 做我喜欢做的事
doing what I love to, 如果没有你们 我就做不了我最喜欢做的事
what I care about most if you weren't here. 谢谢你们 我感激你们
So thank you. I am grateful. (Applause) 这样做的关键是坚持
Now the key with this is to do it as well. 这样做矫情吗?绝对矫情
Yes is it cheesy? Absolutely. 这样做能起作用吗?绝对能
Does it make a difference? Absolutely. 我还会每天晚上和我的孩子David这么做
You know every night I also do it with my kid,with David. 我怎么做?我问David 他现在三岁半了
And how do I do it? I ask David- he's three and a half years old, "你今天有什么开心事?"他回答我 然后又问我
"what was fun for you today?" And he tells me and he asks me, "你今天有什么开心事?"
"what was fun for you today?" 这个方法是我从一个朋友那里学来的 他是手工匠人
I learned about it from a friend of mine who,a hand worker- 他前几节课有来过
who was here just a couple of classes ago. 他来看我 有一天我去他家吃晚餐
He was visiting. And I came over for dinner one day. 他听到我讲课的内容 他跟我说
He heard me speak about this. And he said, "我有些东西要给你看" 他有两个小孩
"I want to show you something." And he has two young kids. 他们都站在旁边说着
And they were standing around and talking about 五件他们感激的事
the five grateful,things for which they were grateful. 他们都是很小的孩子 Daniel和Maya
These were young kids. Daniel and Maya. 我看着他们 我感动得流泪了
And I looked at it and I started to cry. 非常温馨感人
It was so moving and so touching. 从那时起我也和我的孩子这样做
And I've been doing it ever since with my kids. 我妻子也会定期和我这样做
My wife do it every day on regular basis. 她容忍我的矫情 但这样做很有用
She puts up with my cheesiness. It helps. It works because 因为我们不会对好事习以为常
we don't take the good things in our life for granted. 关键是要保持新鲜感
The key when we do this is to maintain freshness. 怎么保持新鲜感?
How do we maintain freshness? 这个练习的缺点之一就是
One of the things that happens with this exercise is that 它很容易变得一种习惯 失去新鲜感
it very often becomes a habit and we lose it. 我们找不到新鲜感 无法用心去练
We lose the freshness of it. We lose the mindfulness of it. 我们把这种练习当做家常便饭了
And we just take it for granted as an exercise. 关键是 Lyubomirsky说
And the key is,one of the things that Lyubomirsky says, 一周做一次吧 对有些人来说
well,try to do it once a week. For some people, 一周做一次比每天做会更好
once a week is actually better than doing it every day. 但是这样做是有代价的 每周练一次
However,there's also a price. It's much less likely to 很难变成我们的一种性格
become a trait if we only do it once a week. 我们怎么保持新鲜感?每天都做
So how do we maintain freshness? Doing it every single day. 我怎么保持新鲜感?很幸运
How do I maintain freshness? Well,fortunately, 有很多人都在研究这个问题
there's a lot of research on this topic- 有些是Lyubomirsky做的 有些是其他人做的
some of them by Lyubomirsky,as well as by others. 第一个方法是变着来做
The first thing is introduce the variety. 例如我写Sherial有关的事 有些东西
So let's say I write about Sherial and there's something 是我每天都写的
that I write about every day. 我女儿 我儿子和我妻子
It's Sherial my daugter,David my son. It's Tommy my wife. 还有上帝 我每天都写这些东西
It's God. I write about these things every single day. 我也会写其他事
And I write about other things as well. 我可以写这些事的不同方面
I can write about different aspects of these things. 某一天我可以写Sherial的微笑
So one day I can write about Sherial's smile. 她才一岁还没有牙齿 笑起来很可爱
You know her beautiful,one year old,toothless smile. 另一天我可以写
And another day I can write about the fact 她第一次走路
that she's taken her first steps now. 变着来写 另一天我可以关注别的...
So vary. Or one day I can write about,focus... 这一周我可以专注写我的工作
One week I can focus about my work. 下一周我可以专注写个人私事
Another week it can be mostly focus about personal things. 诸如此类
And so on. 变化是生活的调味剂 很有效
Variety really is the spice of life- makes a difference here. 第二个方法 Ellen Langer说的用心
Second, Ellen Langer talks about mindfulness. 她把用心定义为创造出新的差别
she defines mindfulness as creating novel distinctions. 其实跟变着来练差不多
It's similar to creating variaty. 看我以前没留意过的东西
Looking at the things that I haven't seen before, 我没正眼看过的东西
that I haven't looked at before. 这也是维持爱的一个办法
This is also a way to maintain love. 有些人说随着时间过去
You know people talk about how over time you become, 他们就会适应一段恋情 其实
you adapt to your relationships. well, 我们每次都能从别人身上看到不同的东西
there's something new to discover about a person every time, 不管是父母 还是情人
whether it's about my parents,whether it's about lover, 还是朋友 创造新的差别
whether it's about my friends. Creating novel distinctions. 用心去看 专注在上面
Looking at it mindfully. Focusing on it. 通过这个新的专注产生新鲜感
And maintaining freshness through this focus. 图像化 William James大楼的Steven Kosslyn
Visualizing it. Steven Kosslyn from William James Hall, 我们系的主任做过一个研究
head of our department did research, 表明孩子会在脑海里把单词形成图像
showing that kids actually visualize most words. 所以当他们看到...假设是母亲
So when you see- let's say mother, 他们脑海里马上形成母亲的图像
immediately the picture of mother comes up. 很多时候我们说这些词 如果不是有意识地话
Or it's very often for us when we talk these words unautomatic, 都不会在脑海里形成图像
we no longer visualize it, 这就是为什么孩子的思维比我们慢
which is why it takes kids longer to think. 因为他们还在脑海里把单词变成图像
Because they are still visualizing the words. 但大人要有意识地才能形成图像
It is not unautomatic anymore, 这就解释了为什么孩子活着这么有童真
which also explains why kids live like kids, 为什么他们会感激简单的东西
why they are able to appreciate the simplist of things, 看到飞机都这么高兴
to be mesmerized by airplane up there. 谈到他们在日托所做的开心事
Or when they talk about what they did at day care. 他们活得很有童真
They live like children. 我们长大成人时
And what we have become over the years. 我们适应了 我们对这些东西都麻木了
We adapt to it. We become numb to a lot of these things. 除掉这些麻木的方法之一
So one of the ways to chip away the numbness, 就是在脑海里形成图像
one of the ways to do it is to visualize. 当我们形成了图像
And when we visualize, 我们就能重新像孩子一样看待事物
we start to see things once again like kids do. 下节课我们再继续谈这点
Next time we'll continue with this, 在这节课结束前 我想和大家分享一个故事
but I want to end today by sharing a story with you. 这个故事是关于一个
A story about the person who, 我认识的人中最当之无愧的积极者
to me more than anyone else captures what benefit finder is. 我的人生模范
A person who is my role model 她教会我学会专注于事物好的一面
when it comes to focusing also on the good. 我外婆1915年在罗马尼亚锡盖特出生
My grandmother was born in 1915 in Sighet,Romania. 她的童年很普通 她是最小的女儿
She had a very regular childhood. She was the youngest daughter 她有一个姐姐 五个哥哥
of 7- one more sisters,5 more bothers. 他们过得很好 她的很多哥哥
And they were doing well. Many of her brothers 成为有名的拉比 小提琴家 音乐家
became important rabbis,violinists,musicians. 她是个过着快乐平凡生活的小女孩
And she was a young girl,happy,living a normal life, 直到1940年希特勒入侵罗马尼亚
until 1940 which was when Hitler invaded Romania. 希特勒入侵罗马尼亚 她的生活被颠覆了
Hitler invaded Romania and her life changed radically. 她全家人都被带到集中营
Her entire family was taken to one concentration camp 从一个转到另一个 最后去到奥斯威辛
after the other,ending up in Auschwitz. 在奥斯威辛 她有十几个外甥女
In Auschwitz,she had over a dozen nieces 和外甥 他们都被谋杀了 她五个哥哥和父亲
and nephews were all murdered. Her five brothers and parents 都在她眼前被谋杀了
were murdered in front of her very eyes. 战争结束时 她和她姐姐活下来了
At the end of the war,somehow,she and her sister survived. 英国人来到奥斯威辛解救集中营的人
The British came to Auschwitz to liberate the prisoners. 他们当时带着一个医生
And when they came,they came in with a doctor. 医生会一个一个检查集中营里的人
And the doctor would go through the prisoners. 当然大部分都死了 那些还活着的人
Most of them were of course dead; those who were alive, 他会说这个带走 这个留下
he would say take that person,leave that person here. 因为他们资源有限 地方有限
Because they had limited resources,limited places. 他们认为活不下去的病人
Those prisoners who they thought would not survive, 就会留下来 当看到我外婆时
they left them there. And it came to my grandmother, 她当时只有26公斤 也就是54磅
who weighed the time 26 kilos which is 54 pounds. 我外婆长得很高大 但她只有54磅
My grandmother was a large woman- 54 pounds. 他说你留下 然后看到她姐姐
And said,leave. And then he saw her sister 她就在她身旁 她姐姐36公斤 79磅
who was right next to her,who weighed 36 kilos- 79 pounds. 他做这个动作 说把她放到车上
And he said,he made this motion to put her on the truck. 当然她太虚弱了 起不来
And of course,she was too weak to get out. 所以英国士兵抱起我外婆的姐姐
So the British soldiers picked up my grandmother's sister 她的名字叫Shanti
whose name is Shanti. 他们抱起Shanti 她抓住她妹妹
They picked Shanti up and Shanti held on to her sister. 她不肯放手 他们想松开她的手
And she wouldn't let go. And they tried to open her grip. 虽然她很虚弱
And even though she was weak and sick, 但他们无法松开她的手
they couldn't open her grip. 于是医生说 好吧 两个都带走 所以士兵把她俩都带走了
So the doctor said,fine,take them both. So they took them both. 他们把她们抱上车
And they put them on the truck. And they were,of course, 他们很肯定我外婆会死去
certain that my grandmother would die. 一个月后 她活下来了
A month passed and she survived though 虽然她体重没有增加
she didn't put on a single gram. 他们以为她随时都会死去 但她顽强求生
Any day they thought she would die,but she refused to die. 三个月后 她体重开始上升 她活下来了
After three months,she started putting on weight. She survived. 半年后 她回去锡盖特
Six months later,she went back to Sighet, 看看她的家变成什么样了
to see what was remained from her home. 到达后 她从马车上下来
She arrived there,got off the cart with the horse. 一个叫约瑟夫的男人看到她
And the man by the name of Joseph- Jose saw her. 他看到一个弯着腰 头发还没长回来的女人
And he saw a woman who was stooped,who still had no hair. 但他认出了那双眼睛 因为那双眼睛充满骄傲
But he recognized those eyes. Because those eyes were proud. 充满生命力 他认出了我外婆Goldie
And those eyes were alive. He recognized Goldie. 他收留了她 两周后他们结婚了
And he took her with him. And two weeks later,they got married. 外婆恢复健康 怀孕了
And Goldie got better and got pregnant 生下一个死产儿 她又怀孕了
and gave birth to a stillborn. And she got pregnant again 再一次生下死产儿
and once again gave birth to a stillborn. 他们从罗马尼亚搬到特拉维夫
They made their way to Tel Aviv from Romania. 他们被英国人抓住
They were caught by the British. 因为当时以色列是英国托管 他们被英国人抓住
It was British mandate at that time. They were caught by British 被送回到塞浦路斯的集中营
and sent back to a concentration camp in Cyprus. 在集中营里
And there,in the concentration camp, 我外婆在塞浦路斯又怀了一个孩子
my grandmother in Cyprus had another baby. 这次她生下了一个女儿
A baby girl who survived. 后来又生下一个男孩 也是死产儿
And then they had another boy who was stillborn. 我外婆不能再生育了
And my grandmother could have no more children. 她的身体吃了太多苦
Her body had endured too much. 我外婆活了下来 生活得很好
My grandmother survived and thrived. Shanti也是 Shanti不能生育
As did Shanti. Shanti could have no children, 但她把我妈妈视如己出
but my mother was her child too. 她把我当成外孙一样 我记得
And I was her grandchild as well. I remember, 那是1988年10月
this was in October of 1988. Shanti几年前去世了
Shanti had passed away a few years earlier. 她去世那天 我们去墓地
And we went to the cemetery on the day that she passed away, 在她的墓碑前祈祷
to say some prayers over her tombstone. 我和我外婆去 我们一起走
And I went with my grandmother. And we walked there. 我外婆站在墓碑前
And my grandmother stook in front of the tombstone. 墓碑上不仅刻着Shanti的名字
And on the tombstone,we engraved not just Shanti's name, 还是她兄弟父母的名字
but the names of all the brothers and her parents. 她看着墓碑
And she looked at the tombstone- 我听到她跟Shanti说
and I thought she talked to shanti- and said to her, "我们真幸运 不是吗?我们很幸运
"we are so fortunate,aren't we? We are so lucky. 你看 Talik也来了" 她叫我Talik
And look Talik is here." She called me Talik. 然后她跟她说我干什么工作
And then she told her what I was doing. 她告诉她我兄弟姐妹在做什么工作
And she told her what my brothers and sisters were doing- 她们的外孙 我父母
their grandchildren. And about my mother and father. 跟她说生活有多美好
And how wonderful thing were. 她在说美好的事
And she was talking about the wonderful things. 她偶尔会哭 想念Shanti
And she was crying once in a while,missing Shanti. 她是一个有血有肉的人 她站在那里
She was so human,just standing there, 有时说依地语 有时说希伯来语
and talking half Yiddish,half Hebrew. 偶尔会跟我说一两句
Once in a while,talking to me. 然后又跟救了她一命的姐姐说两句
And to her sister who saved her life. 她跟我说"走吧" 然后我们一起走
And she said to me,"let's go." And we walked together. 我们周围有几千个坟墓
Thousands of tombs around us. 我们在小道上向车走去
We walked along the path toward the car. 那时是十月 很美丽 太阳西下
It was a beautiful October day. The sun was out. 风在吹 树在摆动
The wind was blowing. The trees were swinging. 然后她停下来 向天空望去
And she suddenly stopped. She stopped and looked up. 她站得很骄傲 很稳重
And she stood so proud,so poised. 她紧抓住我的手 抬头看天 再看着我
And she held my hand so tight,looking up and looking at me. 她说"Tal 这个世界真美好"
She sais,"Tal,it's such a beautiful world. "可惜我们都要离开" 她笑了笑 我们继续走
Just a pity we have to leave." And she smiled. And we walked. 我外婆见过成千上万的尸体
My grandmother saw thousands of corpes. 她亲眼看着她家人被谋杀
She saw her family murdered in front of her very eyes. 她生了三个死产儿
She had three stillborn children. 她没有无视生活中可怕的事
She did not ignore the terrible things in life. 她怎么能无视?但是同时
How could she? However,at the same time, 她也拒绝无视生活中美好的事
she also refused to ignore the good things in life. 生活中美好的事
The wonderful things in life. 她心怀感激 她撑下来了
And she was grateful. And she survived. 我外婆告诉我 这是一个美好的世界
My grandmother told me that this is a beautiful world. 我相信她 谢谢大家
I believe her. Thank you.(Applause) 



 Chapter 8: 积极情绪


首先我想向进修学院的同学问声好
So first I wanna say hi to extention school. 每天都有350名学生观看讲座
We have 350 students watching our lecture every day. 我想向他们问声好
So I wanna say hi to them. 我想特别邀请进修学院的同学
And actually I want to especially invite extention school 及在座的各位来听谦逊的Tal
and everybody here to see our very modest Tal- right?- 他没告诉我们他上了《60分钟时事杂志》 但没关系
he didn't tell us he was on 60 Minutes,but that is OK. 但周六晚上
But Saturday night, Tal将担任女子队
Tal is going to be the honerary basketball coach 荣誉篮球教练
for the women's team, 周六晚七点对抗Cornell大学队
which- the game against Cornell on Saturday at 7 o'clock, 那是本赛季最重要的比赛
which is the biggest game of the season... 六点吗？周六晚六点 本赛季最重要的比赛
Six? Six o'clock on Saturday. The biggest game of the season. 希望能见到在座的每一位
We actually wanna see everyone of you here 及进修学院的同学去观赛
and everybody at the extention school at the game. 进修学院的同学们 我有免费票给你们
Extention students,I'll have free tickets for you. 有一百张票
Well,most of you- a hundred of you. 以示敬意
So in honor of that, 我们有可敬的同学和可敬的球队
we have an honorary student and an honorary team which is, 著名的Kathy Delaney-Smith 获奖的
our very famous Kathy Delaney-Smith,award-winning, 国内最著名的教练
the most fabulous coach in a whole nation and... 女子篮球队也在这里 上来
our women's basketball team is here! Come on now! 这就是可敬的同学们 上来 她们害羞
These are our honorary students. There you go. They are shy. 来吧 上来 见见大家
Alright,so come! Come and see them! 我会和所有朋友和家人去观战
And actually I'll be there with all my friends and families. Tal会在你们的手上签名
And Tal will sign your hand. 好 准备好了吗  好了
Alright! Ready guys? (One player: Yeah.) 这是最重要的比赛
This is the biggest game. 她们是去年的长青藤联盟冠军
These are the Ivy League Champs last year! 好 把礼物扔出去吧 扔出去吧
Alright. Give 'em a throw. Throw 'em out. Throw 'em out! 扔 快扔 快扔
Go! Go! Go! Let's go! Go! Go! Let's go! Hahaha. 好的 谢谢你们
Alright. Thank you. 谢谢 周六见 祝你们好运 谢谢
Thanks. I'll see you all on Saturday. Good luck. Thanks. 好 这不是我安排的 好啦
OK. I didn't plan this,but... (Tal blows a whistle.) Alright. 好的 身上还有别的东西吗？好
Alright,do I have anything else? Oh. OK. 谢谢你们 也感谢你们
Thank you .And thank you. 我们继续谈"感激"
And we are going to continue talking about gratitude. 那么...上次课结束时我讲到我的榜样
So... Last time,I ended by talking about my role model- 我的一个典范
the person who to me exemplifies, 比任何人都重要 一个真正的积极者
more than anyone else what a true benefit finder is. 当我谈到我的祖母时 我说...
And when I told about my grandmother,I told the... 我告诉你们她并不无视无益的东西
I told you how she wasn't ignoring what wasn't working, 她并不无视邪恶 坏的 生命中消极的东西
she wasn't ignoring the evil,the bad,the negative in her life. 但同时 她也拒绝无视积极的东西
However,the same time,she refused to ignore the positive. 换言之 她坚持保持现实
In other words,what she insisted on was staying real. 现实地生活 与周遭保持联系
Being real. Being connected to what was around her. 当周遭充满邪恶的坏的东西
And when it was evil and bad, 她与之保持联系 与此同时
she was connected to that and at the same time, 她也与好的东西保持联系
she was also connected to the good. 积极者不是盲目乐观的人
Benefit finder is not about being a detached Pollyanna. 区别很大 我们上次提出的问题
Far from it. The question we asked last time- 我想以"感激"结束今天的讲座
and I want to end the lecture today on gratitude 然后开始讲"改变" 第一是
before we move on to change- was: one, 为什么没有更多的积极者?
why are not more people benefit finders? 为什么没有更多的人保持乐观?
Why are more people not optimistic? 大家看到研究 人们活得更长
I mean,you saw the research. People live longer. 更快乐 更健康 更成功
They are happier,healthier,more successful. 为什么不是人人都是积极者？
Why isn't everyone a benefit finder? 为什么我们不都是乐观主义者？
Why aren't we all optimists? 如果它是有回报的
If it pays, 用终极货币形式 以幸福来回报
in both the ultimate currency- the currency of happiness 也用硬货币来 以成功来回报？
as well as in hard currency- success currency? 为什么没有更多的积极者？
Why are not more people benefit finders? 问题的答案 在很大程度上
And the answer to that was,to great extent, 是因为媒体的原故
because of the media. 媒体正在放大 聚焦
What we have in the media is magnifying,zooming in, 放大消极的东西 使其最大化
magnifying the negative,maximizing it, 由它占据整个屏幕 整个版面
having it take the entire screen,the entire page, 同时最小化积极的东西
while minimizing the positives. 在很多方面 媒体把我们变成消极者
And in many ways,the media makes fault finders out of us. 而我们需要反击 如何反击？
And we need to counter that. How do we counter that? 宏观层面上可以收看好的新闻频道
On the macro level,by having good news channels,for example. 微观层面上可以培育富有启发性的艺术
On the micro level,by having more inspiring art. 艺术在历史进程中改变了世界
Art throughout history has changed the world- 不论是在黑暗年代
whether it was during the dark ages, 在向文艺复兴过度的时期
at the transition to the Renaissance, 或者是在18和19世纪兴起的浪漫艺术家
whether it was during 18th and 19th century with Romantic artists 致力铺设通向自由之路
and paving the road to freedom, 亦或是上世纪三四十年代
whether it was in mid 1930s and 40s with the Renaissance 好莱坞的复兴 带给人们更多希望
in many ways of Hollywood,bringing more hope to people. 艺术扮演着非常重要的角色
So art plays a very important role, 希望能继续如此
and hopefully,will continue to do so. 然后我们谈到大的层面 宏观层面
So then we talked about the global level,the macro level. 在微观层面上
On the micro level, 我们谈到不要坐等坏事发生
we talked about not waiting for bad things to happen, 不要等悲剧
for tragedy, 或等外界有事发生 我们才知感激
for something external to happen for us to be grateful. 因为我们感激 就其定义而言
Because when we are grateful,by definition, 就是不以某事为理所当然
we don't take something for granted. 我们还分享了有关"感激"的文章及研究
And we shared the readings and the research on gratitude. 做这个修习的关键
The key,when doing it,when doing this exercise- 正如我所说 我每天都在做
and as I said,I do it every single day. 从1999年9月19日开始
I've done it since 19th of September,1999. 每一天 都进行信仰修习
Every single day. Religiously. 修习的关键 不将此修习视为理所当然
The key to doing it and not taking this exercise for granted 是一直保持新鲜感
is by maintaining freshness through- 如果你想每周做一次
if you want to do it once a week, 每周一次用心去做
it's better to do it once a week mindfully 比每天去做并将之视为理所当然要好
than doing it every day and taking it for granted. 好的 做过了 但最理想的是每天做
And OK check- did that. But ideally,you want to do it every day. 因为每天去做才能养成习惯
Because by doing it every day,that's when you form a habit. 那样才能改变思维
That's when you transform your thinking. 每天去做的话 关健是要有变化
And if you do it every day,the key is to vary, 每天思考不同的方向
to think about different aspect every day, 思考家人的不同方面
to think about different aspects of your family 如果你每天都给家人写信
if you write family every day. 一周讲述工作 下一周写家庭
To write about work one week. To write about home the next week. 每次都要用心
Maintaining mindfulness, 专注以前没有注意过的事情
focusing on things you didn't notice before, 发现新的特点 Ellen Langer如是说
creating novel distinctions,as Ellen Langer would say. 并在脑中想像
And visualize- 当你想到你的女或男朋友
so when you are thinking about your girlfriend or boyfriend, 书写感激之情时 在脑海中想像他们
and writting your gratitude,visualize them. 当你想到
When you are thinking about the meal 刚在食堂吃过的一顿美味可口的饭时
that you just had in your dinning hall which was delicious, 想它 在脑海中想像 让它变得尽可能真实
think about it. Visualize it. Make it as real as possible. 孩子就是这样思考
That's how children think. 所以孩子们每天都感觉新鲜
And that's why children have this freshness on the day to day- 他们不把任何东西视为理所当然 他们视生命为奇迹
they don't take anything for granted. They see life as a miracle. 爱默生曾经说过
You know,Emerson once said, "如果星星每千年闪烁一次
"if the stars would shine once in a thousand years, 我们都会仰视赞美这个世界的美丽
we would all look up and praise the glory of this world. 但是因为它们每天都在闪烁 我们将之视为理所当然"
But because they shine every day,we take them for granted." 在孩子眼中不存在理所当然
For children,that dosen't exist. 其中的一个原因
And part of the reason why it dosen't exist 是因为他们不会自动地概念性地思考
is that because they don't think automatically,conceptually. 他们的思维是感知感性的
They think more perceptually. Or sensually. 他们和现实保持联系
And they remain connected to the real. 通过在脑海中想像 我们就能做到
And we can do it simply by visualizing. 这项杰出研究完成于这里
This is a wonderful research done here, 就在William James大楼的八楼
William James Hall,8th floor. 做到"感激" 及实现即将谈到的"改变"的关键
The key to this,as to any change that we'll talk about- 我们会用超过两次讲座专门谈"改变"
we are going to devote more than two lectures to change today 利用今天和下周整周
as well as the whole of next week- 关键是去做 亲力亲为 没有捷径
the key is to do it. To just do it. There are no short cuts. 不是因为你们听了有关"感激"的讲座
It's not because you've been through a lecture on gratitude 你们理解
and you understand, 你们真正理解积极者的含义
you really understand what a benefit finder means. 那不会...
That dosen't... 仅仅理解不会让你成为积极者
That will not in and of itself make you a benefit finder. 你需要去做 需要去经历
You need to do it. You need to experience it. 只有这样 经过一段时间
And it's only through that,that over time,over time, 你才能开始越来越多地看到世界的积极方面
you'll begin to see more and more of the positive in the world 才能反击当下禁锢着
and counter the current schema 大多数人的思维方式
that most of us have literally been imprisoned by, 也就是消极者的思维
the fault finder schema. William James在1890年
William James in 1890, 说过需要21天改变一个习惯
said that it takes about 21 days to change a habit. 可能有点过于乐观
It's probably a little bit optimistic. 可能需要更长时间 但不妨尝试21天
May take a little bit longer. But try for 21 days. 看会怎样 有些人
See what happens. You know there are some people. 我知道有些人已经在上次课后开始尝试
I know some of you have already started this after last class. 有些人立即见到益处
Some people see the benefits immediatly 当然益处可能会消失
and then you know the benefits may go away. 然后又在六个月后出现
And then they see the benefits again six months later. 但尝试一下 起码尝试21天或一个月
But try. Try it for at least 21 days. At least a month. 这也是你们下周的任务
Next week is going to be your task 作为每周任务的一部分
as part of your weekly assignment. 从今天开始 不要等 实现改变没有他法
But start today. Don't wait. No other way to change. Because 因为你所做的是一点点凿掉多余的石头
what you are doing is gradually chipping away the excess stone. 那多余的石头 那些强加给我们的限制
That excess stone,that limitation that has been put on us 例如通过周围的观念
by the schema all around us, 通过今早读到的新闻 大多数的交谈
by the news that you read this morning,by most conversations, 还有内心的审视
internal conversations that go on 以及外在的交谈等等
as well as the external conversations. 你所做的事
And what you are doing, 当你做这个简单的修习时
when you are doing this simple exercise, 它如此有效的原因
the reason why it works so well- 记往经常用心修习的人更快乐
remember people who do it regularly and mindfully are happier, 更健康 更宽容 更和蔼 更成功
healthier,or more generous and benevolent,more successful. 修习行之有效的原因是因为
The reason why it works is because 你所做的事是一凿一凿地
what you are doing is chisel by chisel, 削走多余的石头
chipping away the excess stone. 在我的书中 我谈到O'Hart Cummin
In my book,I talked about O'Hart Cummin, 我的导师 在课堂上
my teacher and I've spoken to him... 也谈到过他几次
about him a few times in the class. 他曾经给我讲过一个故事
He told me a story once 在他不比你们大多少的时候
when he was not much older than most of you- 在他20来岁时 离开以色列
he was in his mid-20s,left Israel to... 他在欧洲生活了几年 最后住在荷兰
He was living in Europe for a few years and ended up in Holland. 过了一段时间后 他变得无家可归
And after a while,he found himself homeless, 住在一棵树下面 寒冷难耐 当时是冬天
literally living under a tree,cold- it was the winter, 身无分文 没有一分钱 也没有朋友
penniless- didn't have any money and without any friends. 悲惨极了 然而出于某种原因 他说 好吧
Absolutely miserable. And somehow for some reason,he said OK. 他抑郁了几周时间 然后他说
He was in this depression for a few weeks and he said, "我不如试试"
"well,let me try something." 拿出一张纸 在这张纸上
Took out a piece of paper and on this piece of paper, 写下让他感激的一切
simply wrote everything for which he was grateful. 他写下来的东西包括 他说
So the kind of things he wrote there,as he told me: 有贝多芬第五交响曲 他酷爱音乐
Beethoven's fifth- he loves music. 他写下在以色列的父母
He wrote his parents,who were in Israel. 他写下香草冰淇淋 至今仍是他的最爱
He wrote vanilla icecream,which until today is his favorite. 他想到家乡的朋友们
He thought about his friends back home. 所有这些事 他写了长长的一个名单
All the things- he made a long list of all the things 写下世上让他感激的事物
in the world for which he is grateful for. 他将那次经历视为他人生的转折点
And he credits this experience as the turning point in his life. 为什么? 因为他开始专注于别的事物
Why? Because he started to focus on something else. 不再对无奈可悲的处境耽耽于怀
Not just on the impossibilities,on the terrible, 而是专注于各种可能和美好的事物
but on the possibilities,the wonderful. 大家也来试试
Do the experi... 随便说一句 他现在55岁了
And by the way,he has this- he's now 55 years old. 仍随身携带这张纸 虽已褶皱
He has this piece of paper with him,crumbled but still there, 但仍装在他的钱包里 提醒他
in his wallet,reminding him that there is so much, 世上有太多美好的事物
so so many wonderful things in the world. 想想我们所过的生活
Just think about the kind of life that we are leading. 就在200年前
Back only 200 years ago, 谁有钱听最爱的音乐家的演奏
who could afford to listen to their favorite musicians, 欣赏最爱的演员的表演 最爱的戏剧?
or to watch their favorite actors,favorite plays? 谁有钱做那些事? 只有王室
Who could affor to do it? Only royalty. 即使是他们也不能随心所欲
And even them- they were limited, 只能看在城里的音乐家演奏
in terms of which musician was in town 只能看逗留在城里的演员
or what players were in town. 今天这一切都在我们的指尖上
Today,we have literally the tip of our finger, 在我们的MP3和DVD播放机上
whether it's on our MP3 or our DVD player. 想像...想想我们的奢侈生活
Imagine... Just think about the luxury that we are living in. 国王和王后也望尘莫及
Kings and Queens that not lived that kind of luxury. 然而我们习惯了 我们适应了
However,we get used to it. We adapt. 有时这是件好事
And sometimes it's a good thing, 因为我们也适应困难的经历
because we also adapt to difficult experiences. 问题是我们如何学会
And the question is how do we learn in a sense to (12:47), 学会适应痛苦
meaning to adapt to the painful 但又不被伤害或变得容易受伤害?
but not to remain impervious or to become impervious? 变得漠视我们所有的特权
To become indifferent to the privilege that we have. 如何才能保持感激之情?那就是要用心
How do we maintain the gratefulness? And it's by being mindful. 思考我们拥有的美好的东西
By thinking about those wonderful things that we have, 不论是在朋友身上
whether it's in a friend, 在一部我们想看的电影中
whether it's in a movie we want to watch, 或是过一会
whether it's in the lunch 食堂提供的午餐
we are going to have served to us in our house later. 感激修习如此有用的一个原因
The gratitude exercise- one of the reasons why it's so powerful- 因为我们所做的是共同创造一个现实
because what we are doing is we are cocreating a reality. 我们问得最多
Most of the questions that 或被问及最多的问题是"哪里不对了?"
we ask or are asked of us is "what's wrong?", "有什么需要改进的?""我的弱点是什么?"
"what needs to be improved?","what are my weakness areas?" 这远远不是重要的问题
Important questions- not enough. 如果这些问题
If these are the only questions 是我们唯一提出或关心的 那么好的事物是不存在的
that we ask as far as we are concerned,good does not exist. 当我们问"我要感激什么?"时
And when we ask "what are my grateful for?", 即使每天只问一次
even it's just once a day, 这么做的本身创造了...祝你身体健康
that in and of itself creates- (A student sneezes)Bless you. 这么做的本身创造了一种新的现实
That in and of itself creates a new reality. 让我们开始看到曾经无视的东西
And we begin to see things that we haven't before. 我在做这样的修习时
So when I do this exercise 我已经修习了很长时间
and I have been doing it for a long time, 今天我才会注意到不做修习时
I notice things today that I wouldn't have noticed, 忽视的事物 我会说
had not been doing this. And I would say, "今晚我要写一写这样东西
"oh,this is something I am going to write tonight. 它是那么美好"
It's so beautiful." 开车兜风时
You know,when I go for a drive 看到笼罩在周日夜色中的Hampshires的群山
and see sunday night mountains in Hampshires, 晚上我要记下它
I'm going to write this down later. 没有修习我不会注意到它
It's... And I wouldn't have noticed it. 就我而言 这些东西是不存在
And as far as I was concerned,these things did not exist, 就像公交车上的小孩子不存在一样
just like the children on the bus did not exist, 当你没有问对问题时
while you are not asking also the right question. 显然表达感激也是重要的
It's important to express gratitude obviously 不仅仅对自己 也要对他人
not just to ourselves,but also to others. 这方面也有很多研究
A lot of research on that too. 这是...你们正在或已经读过
This was done by- you are reading or you have read- the paper Seligman的有关向他人表达感激的论文
by Seligman talking about expressing gratitude to others, 可以是写信表达 拜访或致电
whether it's in the form of a letter or a visit or phone call. 表达感激的关键
And the key of expressing gratitude- 这不是一张简单的"感谢字条"
this is not just a thank you note. 亲爱的妈妈 感谢你如此伟大 爱你的儿子
Dear Mom,thank you for being so great.Love,me. 那不只是简单的感谢字条
That's not just a thank you note. 它需要坐下来思考
It's sitting down and thinking, "我能感激妈妈什么?
"what can I be grateful for,for my mom? 她都为我做了什么?
What has she done to me? 这些年来 她给与了我哪些?"
What has she given me throughout these years?" 认真地去思考 认真思考
And really thinking about it. Or really thinking a thing, "三年级的老师都为我做了什么?"
"what this teacher from 3rd grade do for me?" 不是跟朋友聊天时说
Not just talking to my friends, "三年级时我有个很棒的英语老师"
"I have a wonderful English teacher in 3rd grade." 坐下来认真思考 我要感激什么?
But sitting down and thinking. What am I grateful for? 她或他都为我做了什么
What did she or he do for me 对我的人生帮助良多 让我成为今天的我?
that has contributed so much to my life,to who I am today? 我的室友总是尽其所能帮我
Or my roommate who always goes out of his or her way to help. 我真得很感激 要去静思
I am really grateful. And to think about it. 而不是在学年或学期未
Not just to,you know- at the end of year or of the summer, 说"你很好 棒极了"
"oh you are great. You are terrific." 真正用心去思考这些人
Really think about what these people, 你生命中的重要的人
the important people in your life 为你做了什么 然后再表达出来
are doing for you and express it. 不要视之为理所当然
Don't take that for granted. 不要认为他们理应知道你心怀感激
Don't take for granted that they know how grateful you are. "是的 妈妈当然知道
"Yeah,of course mom knows. 爸爸当然知道我感激他们 他们很棒"
Of course dad knows that I'm grateful and they are terrific." 不要视之为理所当然 表达出来
Don't take it for granted. Express it. 写信 致电或面对面说都可以
Again,write it in a letter or by phone or in person. 当今最有效的一种干预形式
One of the most effective interventions out there today 是向他人表达感激之情 尤其是这种方法
is expressing gratitude to others especially this one: 写一封表达感激的信然后去拜访
writting a letter of gratitude and then visiting the person to 收信人 再把信读给他们听
whom you are writting and reading them the letter. 俗气? 同意 难为情? 有时是的
Cheesy? I agree. A little bit embarrassing? Sometimes. 你无法想像
You cannot imagine the kind of result 人们做感激拜访时获得的结果
that people get when doing just this gratitude visit. 但即使你不去拜访他们
But even if you don't visit them, 你觉得害羞 我建议去拜访
you do feel self-conscious doing it. I do recommend it. 如果你觉得害羞
But you feel self-conscious, 那就把信寄出去再打电话
send the letter,make that phone call. 致电前思考几分钟
And before,just think for a few minutes, "我要说些什么?我到底感激什么?"
"what am I going to say? What am I really grateful for?" 不论是对你的父母
Again,whether it's to your parents, 或朋友
whether it's to your friends, 或是一年级老师 去做吧
whether it's to your 1st grade teacher. Just do it. 或者是对你们的教练 表达感激时
Whether it's to your coach. The largest largest peak,boost, 是最让我们感到幸福的时候
spike in wellbeing when we are expressing gratitude to others. 想想吧 相当不可思议
Quite remarkable if you think about it. 进一步思考会发现它是双赢的
And if you think about it further,it is a win-win. 因为显然你从中得益
Because obviously you get the benefit- 研究已证明了这一点 表达感激时我们感觉很好
this is what the research shows. We feel good when we express it. 对方也会感觉很好 他们的获益良多
and the other person feels good too. They benefit a great deal. 于是你创造了一个双赢的局面 一个上升的螺旋
So you are creating a win-win and an upward spiral,because 因为对方也更可能向他人表达感激
that person is then more likely to express gratitude to others. 最好的方法是以身作则
The best way to lead it by an example: 成为你期许见到的改变 如甘地所说
be the change you want to see in the world,as Ghandi said. 想让他人充满感激?
So you want people to be more grateful? 先以身作则表达感激
Express gratitude yourself. 他们才可能承接下去
They are more likely to then take it on 向他人表达感激 你不仅仅
and express gratitude to others. So not only you 在你和对方之间启动了一个上行螺旋
start an upward spiral between you and that person, 对方和他人之间可以承接上行
but also potentially between that person as well as others. 传递出去 传递出去
Paying it forward. Paying it forward. 这种干预的不利之处是
The downside of this intervention is 虽然它能让幸福感达到峰值
while it leads to a spike in well-being, 但一个月后 幸福感会消退
that spike usually goes away after about a month. 时间不同 可能是一周或三个月后
It varies: it can go away after a week or after three months. 但平均来说一个月后会消退
But the average it goes away after about a month. 幸福感的峰值
The spike to well-being. 保持这个峰值的关键就是经常去做
So the key you want to maintain the spike is to do it regularly. 每周做一次 两周做一次或一月做一次
Either once a week. Once a week,two weeks. Once a month. Do it. 一周打一次感激电话 把它变成仪式
You can do it one week a gratitude phone call and make it ritual. 下一周写信表达感激
The next week,a gratitude letter. 再下一周 感激拜访 以此类推
The week after that,a gratitude visit. Or something like that. 还是要有变化 形式的变化很有帮助
Again,variety. Variety really helps here. 但把它作为一种仪式经常去做
But do it regularly as a ritual. 下周谈"改变"时
And when we talk about change next week, 我们会谈到"仪式"的重要性
we'll talk about the importance of rituals. 因为在很多方面
Because in many ways, 那是唯一的真正持久的改变
that's the only change for real,lasting change. 有一项惊人的发现
Here's one of the surprising findings 是Sonja Lyubomirsky的发现
that Sonja Lyubomirsky found. 她发现如果我们写了那封信
What she found is that if we write that letter, 就算不寄出去 幸福感也能达到的峰值
we get the spike in wellbeing even if we don't send it. 寄出去当然会得到回应
Obviously if we send it and we get feedback, 峰值会更高
the spike is even higher. 但仅仅是书写 感受感激之情 敞开心扉
But just the act of writting it,of being grateful,being open, 这样做的本身也有助提升幸福感 下周
that in and of itself contributes to wellbeing. Next week, 你们的功课就是一封感激信
your response paper is going to be a letter of gratitude, 我们强烈建议你们去拜访对方
which we will highly recommend you visit the person 把信读给他们 或者最起码
and read it to them or,at the very least, 把信寄出去 如果你们相隔很远
send it if you are not close to them now physically. 但即使是写了信
But even if you just write it 却不好意思寄出去
and don't feel comfortable sending it, 那同样能提升你的幸福感
that in and of itself contributes to our wellbeing. 我想再深入谈谈
I want to go a little bit more in depth into 如何表达感激 再概况谈谈
how we express gratitude and in general, 如何应对痛苦和积极的情绪
how we deal with painful and positive emotions. 再次引用Sonja Lyubomirsky所做的研究
Once again,Sonja Lyubomirsky did research, 她邀请参与者谈论
while she invited participants to talk about 分享生活中最糟的经历
or to share the worst experiences of their lives 和最好的经历
and the best experiences of their lives. 她所做的是把他们分成四组
And what she did was divide them actually to four groups. 第一组 写出来
One group- write about it. 写出三方面 一是影响 也就是情感 二是行为
Write about the ABC,the affect- the emotion,the behavior- 即当时你做了什么 三是认知 即当时的想法
what you did then,and the cognition- what you thought then. 连续三天 每天一次 每次15分钟
Three times on three consecutive days for 15 minutes. 第一组只是写出来
First group just wrote about it. 第二组对着录音机说
The second group talked about it to a tape recorder 讲述最好的经历 另一组
about the same best experiences and another group, 讲述最糟的经历
worst experiences. 第三组 只是去想
Third group,just think about it- 连续三天 每天沉思15分钟
ruminate for 15 minutes also on three consecutive days. 她观察他们身体和心理的健康状况
What she looked at was physical and mental health. 她观察他们的健康程度
She looked at how healthy they were. 观察他们的身体
She looked at their physical... 他们认为自己有多健康
how they perceived themselves as healthy or not, 他们有多少种病症
how many symptoms they actually had. 她还观察他们的情绪 他们有多快乐
And she looked at their mood- how happy they were. 观察期是实验前和实验后的四周
Before the experiment and four weeks later, 经过三天 每天15分钟的干预后
after that three days,15 minutes each day intervention. 还有第四组 是一个对照组
There was also a fourth group,which was a control group. 她的发现如下
Here is what she found. 一共有三或四组 每组作两项研究
So basically you have three or four by two, 书写 谈论和沉思
writting,talking and thinking. 研究一是最糟的经历 研究二是最好的经历
Study one: worst experiences. Study two: best experiences. 书写的人 我来解释一下
Those who wrote- let me just explicate this. 书写最糟经历的人事实上感觉更好了
Those who wrote about the worst experiences actually felt better 身体上也更健康
and were physically healthier, 这是经过四周后与对照组相比的结果
compared to the control group four weeks later. 对着录音机说的那些人 还记得吗?
Those who talked about it to a take recorder- remember? 谈论他们的感受 他们的经历
about what they felt,about what they've been through, 谈论当时的想法和现在的想法
about what they thought at the time while they are thinking now. 15分钟 连续三天
15 minutes,three days. 在谈论之后感觉更好了
Actually,felt better after talking about it. 那些想的人
Those who thought about it, 沉思的人 不去谈论
who ruminated about it,without talking, 不去书写 他们感觉更糟了
without writting about it,actually felt worse 一个月后身体状况也更糟
and were physically less healthier a month later. 研究二
The second study, 他们书写最快乐的经历
where they wrote about their happiest experiences, 我们看到相反的趋势 换言之
we see the opposite trend. In other words, 那些连续三天书写他们的经历
those who wrote about it on what they experience, 如何经历以及汲取的教训的人
how they experience it,what they learn from it on three days, 每次15分钟
for 15 minutes each time, 一个月后身体和心理上都感觉更糟
actually felt worse physically as well as mentally after a month. 那些谈论这三样的人
Those who talked about it also about the ABC- 即影响 行为和认知
the affect,the behavior,the cognition, 一个月后同样感觉更好但身体状况更差
also felt better and were less healthy a month later. 而那些只是想的人
Well those who just thought about it, 沉思他们的积极经历的人
ruminated about their positive experiences, 连续三天 每天15分钟想像它的人
imagined it on three consecutive days,15 minutes each day, 一个月后感觉更好更健康
actually felt better and were healthier a month later, 四周后的结果 于是她进行第三项研究去了解
four weeks later. So she ran the third study to understand- 这是很惊人的结果 出乎她的预料
this was a surprising result,was not what she expected. 于是她进行第三项研究去了解其中的机制
So she ran the third study to understand the mechanism- 这是怎么回事 为什么
what is going on here. Why is it that 当我们书写和谈论消极经历时
when we write and talk about negative experiences, 我们会感觉更好更健康?
it makes us feel better and healthier? 增强我们的免疫系体?
Strengthen our immune system? 但当我们思考或沉思时
Whereas when we just think about it,ruminate it, 发生什么事?
what's going on here? 思考积极情感时却产生相反的结果
Whereas the exact opposite is the case with positive emotions. 她的发现是
And what she found was there was a distinction 分析和重现之间是有区别的
between analyzing and replaying. 当我们分析一次经历时
When we analyze an experience, 当我们理清它时 它真得有帮助
when we make sense of it,it helps. It actually helps. 痛苦的经历和消极的经历
Painful experiences and negative experiences, 所以心理治疗才有帮助
which is why therapy helps. And 心理治疗中最有帮助的 除了技术
what helps in therapy more than anything is less of technique, 除了心理治疗师的多年学习
less the years of study that the therapists had, 除了心理治疗师的经验 这些都很重要
less the experience that the therapists had. These things matter. 但不是最重要的 最重要的是他们的感同身受
But not that much. What matters most is are they empathic. 换言之 他们是不是好的聆听者?
In other words,are they good listeners? so 当我们觉得可以谈论或者分析痛苦情绪时
when we feel like we can talk and analyze about painful emotion, 我们感觉更好 身体更健康
we feel better. We are physically healthier. 当我们只是坐下来
When we simply sit down 沉思痛苦的情绪却不去理清它时
and ruminate about painful emotions without making sense of it, 我们经常进入下行螺旋
we get very often into a downward spiral. 我们收窄压缩 感觉更悲哀
We narrow and constrict. We feel more sad. 进一步收窄压缩
We narrow and constrict even more. 还记得Barbara Fredrickson的研究吗？
Remember the Barbara Fredrickson's studies? 不断恶化 相反 虽然不清楚原因
And so on and so on. In contrast,we are not sure why. 当我们分析积极的经历时 真正地分析它
when we analyze a positive experience,really analyze it- 尝试理解为什么会发生等等
try to understand why it happened and so on. 连续这样做三天
So we do it for three consecutive days. 它确实没有帮助 我们不明白为什么
It actually dosen't help. We don't understand why. 也许是因为让我们回忆起
But maybe it's because it takes all the fun spontaneity 经历的快乐之处
from the experience. 但当我们只是沉思积极经历时
However when we just ruminate about the positive experience- 只是想也会提升我们的幸福感
just think about it,then it contributes to our well-being. 感激修习就是重播快乐经历
The gratitude exercise is about replaying the experience. 就是如此 换言之
It's exactly that. In other words, 就是说回想最快乐的日子
it's thinking about our happiest experiences of the day, 能自动导致积极的结果
which leads ultimately to positive outcome. 那么准许为人说的是什么?
So what is it saying aobut the permission to be human? 有什么区别?
How is it different? 因为准许为人也是为了
Because the permission to be human is also very much related 实现长期的快乐和健康
to being happier and healthier in the long term. 区别是这样的 准许为人
Well here's the difference: with the permission to be human, 我们准许自己感受各种情绪
we give ourselves the permission to experience the emotions 只要有必要
for as long as necessary. 失去亲人时 我们准许自己感受情绪的时间
If we just lost someone,it would be much longer 远比考试失利的时间要长
than if we just didn't perform so well in the test. But 但我们准许自己感受经历
we give ourselves the permission to experience the experience. 然后我们自问
And then we ask ourselves, "现在最有效的行动是什么?"
"so what would be the most effective way to act now?" 最有效的行动之一
And one fo the most effective way to act 是去分享那次经历
would be to share that experience. 最有效的行动之一
One fo the most effective way to act 是写日记 接受每天的行为
would be to just write in our journal. Daily active acceptance. 不要苦苦沉思痛苦的情绪
Not just ruminating and staying there with this painful emotion. 我思考的一件事
Now one of the things I thought about it 也与祖母的经历有关
also in the context of my grandmother's experience 为什么会那样 一会我们会谈到PTSD
is why is it that- we'll talk about PTSD in a few minutes- 为什么会那样
why is it that 从越南回国的很多美国人
so many people in the United States coming back from Vietnam 30%的越战老兵都患有严重创伤后遗症
30% of Vietnam vets experience post traumatic stress disorder. 那影响了他们整个人生
It affected their entire lives. 但经历过大屠杀的人
Whereas people who have been through the holocaust, 同样是可怕的经历 经常是更可怕的经历
no less terrible experiences,very often,much worse experiences, 经历过大屠杀的人 就百分比来说
people who have been through the holocaust,percentage wise- 患有PTSD的要少得多
there are far less people who have PTSD- 严重创伤后遗症 为什么会有这种区别?
post traumatic stress disorder. Why this difference? 我知道在以色列 50%的老年人
I mean,you know in Israel,50% of the older population- 在我出生时 50%的人口都是大屠杀幸存者
when I was born,50% of the population were holocaust survivers. 我没看到有很多严重创伤后遗症患者
I didn't see much post traumatic stress disorder there. 但30%的越战老兵都有PTSD
Whereas again,30% of Vietnam vets have PTSD. 现在陪审团正在调查
Now the jury is still out to see 二次伊战老兵有多少患PTSD
how many of the second Iraq war will come back with PTSD, 数字一定也很惊人
but the number is going to be staggering too. 为什么? 为什么有这样的区别?
Why? What's the difference? 我认为这就是解释
And I think this explains the difference. 越战是遭到反对的战争
You see,Vietnam is not a popular war. 很多老兵回到家
Many of the vets who came back to their home, 回到家乡后 不会公开谈论它
to their country didn't talk about it openly. 他们把经历藏在心里
They kept it inside them. 他们所做的事情是 他们就在这里
And what they did was they were- right here- 他们反复回忆最可怕的经历
thinking about some of the worst experiences, 在脑海中反复播放
replaying it in their minds over and over and over again. 结果情况越来越糟
And the situation just worse and worse and worse. 相反
In contrast,people coming from, 同样可怕的大屠杀的幸存者
again no less terrible experiences in the holocaust. 他们回到自己的村子
They came back to their village. 回到自己的国家
They came back to their country. 他们去以色列 在那里做什么?
They came to Israel and what did they do there? 他们谈论
They talked about it. 谈论他们的经历 多数人并非所有人
They talked about their experiences- most of them,not all- 多数人会和朋友谈论他们的经历
most of them talked about their experiences with their friends, 和家人 不停地谈论
with their family constantly talked about it. 他们在这里 随着时间推移
They were here. And over time, 这帮助他们继续生活下去
it helped them move on and continue. 这项研究给出的最好建议 你们都知道
So the best advice from this study,you know that, 正如我所说
as I told you, 这门课你们学不到太多新东西
I am not going to teach you much new in this course. 只想提醒你们 互助组的帮助有多大
Just want to remind you how helpful it is to have support group. 与朋友 家人分享的帮助很大
How helpful it is to share with friends,with family, 和心理治疗师聊天 写日记 书写
with a therapist,with a journal,in writting- 下周我们会谈到日记的作用
we'll talk about journalling next week- 两者对积极和消极经历
you know the most effective interventions both for positive 都是最有效的干预形式
as well as negative experiences- 只是以不同的形式书写
only we are writting in different way: 一种是分析 另一种是简单的重播
one we analyze; the other,we simply replay. 表达感激不应该等到感恩节
Being grateful shouldn't wait for Thanksgiving. 我们不应该只等每年一次 在11月的那天
We shouldn't wait just once a year,that November date, 去表达感激之情
when we express gratitude, 坐在桌旁轮流说感激什么
when we go around the table and say what we are grateful for. 它应该是一个习惯 首先因为它行之效 有帮助
It should be a habit. A,because it works,it helps. 其次因为它是道德的
And B,because it's moral. 这点很重要 我会贯穿始终强调
This gets to a point that I'll repeat throughout the course, 道德也是实际的
where the moral is also the practical. 而实际在多数情况下 也是讲道德的
The practical,in most cases,is also the moral. 两者密不可分 David Steindl-Rast
They go hand in hand. David Steindl-Rast, 上次课我提到的那本书"我们生活在一个给与的世界
the book that I mentioned last time: "We live in a 'given" world. 带来满足的是感激之情
What brings fulfillment is gratefulness, 心灵对此给与人生的简单回应
the simple response of our heart 就是圆满"
to this given life in all its fullness.” 就像一个孩子 诗人Galway Kinnel写道
Again,just like a child. The poet,Galway Kinnel: "感激地活着和死去 若无其他美德"
"To live and die in gratefulness,if in no other virtue." Cicero写道"感激不仅是最大的美德
Cicero: "Gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues, 也是其他美德的发源" 为什么是其他美德的发源?
but the parent of all others". Why is it parent of all others? 我经常想起这句最爱的话 但是为什么?
I thought about this sentence a lot which I love,but why? 想想吧 如果我们不知感激
Because if you think about it,if we are not grateful, 我们就会将事情视作理所当然
then we take things for granted. 如果我们不知感激生命中美好的事物
If we are not grateful for the good things in our lives, 认为它们理所当然 那就会对它们视而不见
things are taken for granted. And then we are blind to them. 对我们来说 它们是不存在的
Then as far as we are concerned,they do not exist. 美德为什么是高尚的? 是它的好
Now what makes virtue virtuous? It's the good. 如果世上没有好
And if there is no good in our world, 那么美德将不再高尚
then that takes away the virtue from being virtuous. 所以我认为...
That is why I think... Cicero所谓的
what Cicero was talking about when he meant "它是所有美德的发源"的含义
"it is the parent of all virtues". 另一个重要的积极者是雷德克利夫学院学生
Another concernment benefit finder is the Radcliff student, 曾经的雷德克利夫学院学生 Helen Keller
or was a Radcliff student,Helen Keller. Helen Keller
Helen Keller,quite literally, 能让我们睁开双眼感激周遭的事物
open our eyes and get us appreciate what is all around us. 她在精彩的自传中讲了一个故事
She tells us a story in her wonderful autobiography 关于一个曾去剑桥看望她的朋友
about a friend who came to visit her once in Cambridge. 当时还有很多树林
There were many more woods at the time. 那位朋友在树林里散步
And the friend walked around the woods 朋友回来时 Helen Keller问她
and when her friend came back,Helen Keller asked her, "你看到了什么? 留意到什么?"
"so what did you see? What did you note?", 她的朋友回答说"没什么特别的"
to which her friend responded,"well,nothing in particular." Helen Keller在自传中
And Helen Keller responds to that 对"没什么特别的"作出回应 我来念念
"nothing in particular" in her autobiography. Let me read. "我奇怪怎么可能在树林里
“I wondered how it was possible to walk for an hour 走了一小时后 却什么都没看到
through the woods and see nothing of note. 我虽看不到却发现许多东西
I who cannot see find hundreds of things: 精美对称的叶子
the delicate symmetry of a leaf, 银色白桦的光滑树皮
the smooth skin of a silver birch, 松树粗糙的树皮
the rough,shaggy bark of a pine. 我一个瞎子也能给看得见的人一个提示
I who am blind can give one hint to those who see: 像明天就会瞎掉那样用你们的眼睛
use your eyes as if tomorrow you will have been stricken blind. 听声音的乐曲 鸟的鸣唱
Hear the music of voices,the songs of a bird, 一个管弦乐队的强劲弦律
the mighty strains of an orchestra 仿佛明天你会突然聋掉
as if you would be stricken deaf tomorrow. 像明天就会失去触觉那样触摸每样东西
Touch each object as if tomorrow your tactile sense would fail. 闻花朵的香气 品尝每一口的气味
Smell the perfume of flowers,taste with relish each morsel, 仿佛明天你将永远失去味觉和嗅觉
as if tomorrow you could never taste or smell again. 充分利用每一种感官
Make the most of every sense. 每一面的美好 愉悦和美丽
Glory in all the facets and pleasures and beauty 这世界向你展现"
which the world reveals to you." 每天两次花一分钟时间留意周遭的一切
Take a minute twice a day to focus on what is going on around you 花一分钟的时间
Take a minute when... 在上课的路上看看美丽的草地
on your way to class to look at the beautiful grass, 青翠的树 美丽的雪
the beautiful trees,the beautiful snow. 晚上用一分钟去回忆
Take a minute in the evening to reflect 回想你度过的一天
and think about the day you had, 写下让你心怀感激的事物
and to write down the things for which you are grateful. 今天午餐时
Today over lunch, 略比平时吃得慢些去品尝
just by a little bit slower than you do normally and taste, 体验品尝的滋味
experience the taste. 因为我们所吃的食物是种特权
Because it is a privilege to have the food that we have. 朋友是我们的特权
It is a privilege to have the friends that we have. 家人是我们的特权
the family that we have. 我们不应视特权为理所当然
And we shouldn't take that privilege for granted. 因为我们不知欣赏的就会贬值
Because what we don't appreciate unfortunately depreciates. 我们不需要经历一次威胁 一出悲剧
We don't need to wait for a threat,for a tragedy, 才去感激周遭和内心感受的一切
for us to appreciate what's all around us and within us. 时刻提醒我的 我的周围环境
What reminds me constantly,my surrounding, 时刻在我眼前提醒我的
the reminder that I have always in front of my eyes, 是我家人的一张照片
is a picture of my family and particularly, 特别是中间的祖母
of my grandmother in the middle. 祖父看到她弯腰走进来
And here's my grandfather who saw her coming in stooped, 病倦不堪 他把她揽在怀中 我办公室里放着这张照片
ill and took her into his arms. I have this picture in my office. 经常看它来提醒自己
Looked at it all the time to remind me. 我本可以现在给你们讲这个故事
I would have told you the story now 原本安排在讲座最后
which comes at the end of the lecture. 但我知道讲完故事 我会心力憔悴
But I know when I tell the story,it drains me so much. 我将无法继续讲座
I don't think I would be able to go on. 所以我会在讲座最后讲这个故事
So I told you at the end of the lecture last time. 但这是给了我一个提醒
But this is my reminder. 它激励我创造一个积极的环境
This is what primes me,creating a positive environment- 激励提醒我要作一个积极者
primes me and reminds me to be a benefit finder. 接下来我想做的是
So here is what I want to do now. 现在我想占用一点时间
What I want to do now is take a time in. 本学期第一次占用时间 不会是最后一次
The first time in of the semester,not the last one. 占用一点时间让你们有机会审视自己
Time in when you have a chance to look inside yourself, 去反省
to reflect. 分组时也有机会
You'll have opportunity in sections as well. 我想现在教室里做
I want to do it now in this room. 我要你们用几分钟时间回想
I want you to take just a couple of minutes to think about 在脑子里记下来你所感激的事物
and write down mindfully the things for which you are grateful. 生命中美好的事物 给你们两分钟时间
The wonderful things in your life. So take two minutes to do it. 计时
(Time in) 好 希望大家课后能继续
Ok. It would be great if you continue this later on as well. 现在我想做另一件事
But I want to do something else now. 有点让人难堪的事情 我先表示歉意
Something slightly embarrassing. My apologies in advance. 但我想让大家现在
But what I'd like you to do now 和你旁边的同学分享
is share with the person next to you some... 不必分享所有事
You don't need to share everything. 可以隐去一些事情
And you can have some beeps in middle 你想有保留 完全可以
if you want to have censorship. That's fine. 用几分钟时间分享一下
But just take couple of minutes to share with one another, 和身边的同学 如果是三个人
with the person next to you or if there are three of you, 简单快速地分享一下
just share quickly. 我给你们两分钟时间
I am just going to give you two minutes for that. 分享你们感激的事物
The things for which you are grateful. 可以详细说一件事也可以读你列下的清单
You can elaborate on one thing or you can read the list. （学生在分享）
(Students talking) 再给你们30秒 30秒收尾
Take 30 secondes more. 30 secondes more to finish up. 好了 好了 大家可以课后继续
OK. OK. You... You can continue later. 我建议大家课后继续
I recommend you continue later. 很简单的干预却获益良多
Very simple intervention that goes a long way. 只要我们能专注于积极的方面
If we just learn to focus on the positive, 就能同共创造更多积极的现实 现在我想做的是
we co-create the more positive reality. What I want to do now 在开始关于"改变"的讲座之前
before moving on to the next lecture on change. 我想就期末报告说几句
I want to say a few words about the final project. 期末报告
Remember the idea of the final project 你们将要做的
is basically a presentation anywhere between 20 to 30 minutes 是一次时间在20到30分钟的报告
that you will create. 进修学院的同学
This is both for the extention school 和在校生都要做
as well as for the college students. 20到30分钟的报告 而且要交上来
20-30 minute presentation that you will hand in as, 积极心理学中的任何主题都可以
or about any topic within positive psychology. 随便说一句
And by the way, 也可以是用积极心理学干预
that could also be positive psychological interventions 治疗抑郁和焦虑 可以是关于"感激"的
for depression or anxiety. It could be about gratitude. 可以是关于身心联系
It could be the mind body connection. 可以是关于灵性和宗教
It could be about spirituality and religion. 可以是关于自尊
It could be about self-esteem. 我敦促大家去做的
What I would urge you to do 是找到对自身最有具意义的
is find the most personally meaningful topic 你想研究的主题
that you want to research. 记往最私人的也是最普遍的
Remember what is the most personal is also most general. 如果你对灵性问题很感兴趣很狂热
So if you are very much interested,passionate in spirituality, 就写有关灵性的报告
do that. 如果你想更好地理解
If you really want to understand more 更好地应用于人生
and be able to apply to your life more, 把积极心理学干预用于解决 我不知道
positive psychological interventions for,I don't know, 公开演讲焦虑症或其他问题 都可以
public speaking anxiety or whatever it is,do it on that. 报告内容对个人问题涉及的越多
The more personal you get in that,in that paper, 你从中得到的也越多
the more you'll get out of it. 你们要把书面报告交上来
You'll hand it in as a written text. 20到30分钟的报告内容 大约要写10到15页
20 to 30 minutes is about 10 to 15 pages of texts 这是你们最终要交上来的
and this is what you'll ultimately hand in. 既要交书面报告也要交幻灯片
You'll give both a written text as well as slides. 我们不会因你的幻灯片
We are not going to grade for how beautiful 有多漂亮多精彩而打分
and how amazing your powerpoints... 但我们希望你们能提交幻灯片
But we do want you to hand in slides 那将作为你们报告的大纲
that will be the outline for your talk. 打分的唯一部分
Now the only part of this that will be actually graded 是你最后提交的东西 也就是你的报告的文稿
is what you hand in at the end,meaning the text of your lecture. 但是除此
However,in addition to that, 幻灯片是必选项
the powerpoint will be graded pass/fail, 就是说必须做幻灯片
meaning you have to do it. 但幻灯片不会参与打分
but you are not going to be graded for it, 是给小组成员作的报告时用的
is to give the presentation to other people from your section. 进修学院的同学
Those of you in extention school 将对社区的其他人作报告
will give to other people in your community. 这样做是为了传递出去
The idea here is paying it forward. 找到一个主题然后传递出去
Getting an idea and doing it. 我的演讲生涯就是这样开始的
That's how I actually started my speaking career. 我自己有个感兴趣的主题
I had a topic that I was personally interested 我给壁球队作了演讲
and I gave it to the squash team. 我跟和我很亲近的人讲
I talked about it. Just to people close to me. 我有了一个主题 最后发展成演讲
And I had a topic and then that evolved over time. 我们希望那些没有经历的同学
So we want you,for those of you who haven't had the experience 首先去综合
is to first of all synthesize material 你感兴趣的主题的资料
in the topic that you care about, 那些能改变你人生的东西
that you think will make a difference in your life; 然后再传递出去
and second to be able to pay it forward. 必须有参考书目
It has to have reference to research. 这不只是个人故事或自传
This is not just a personal story or an autobiography. 必须有参考书目
It has to have reference to research. In addition to, 当然可以加上能突出你的论点的故事
of course stories that you think capture the point. 最有效率的沟通方法
Probabaly the most effective way of communicating an idea 大概就是通过故事
is through stories. 十年后 你们也许不会记得
You know,you'll probably not remember ten years from now, 关于自我效能的研究 但你很可能
the research on self-efficacy. But you are much more likely 记得Roger Bannister的故事
to remember the story of Roger Bannister. 人们记得故事 与故事产生联系
So people remember stories. They connect to stories. 但与此同时 这是一份学术报告
But at the same time,this is an academic paper. 我们希望即有学术性又通俗易懂
We want to brige the Ivory tower and the Main Street. 所以要有参考书目
So have references to research. 可以选择以下手段
And these are the things that would be optionally: 可以截取电影片段 如果报告中有电影片段
you can have film clips- if you have a film clip in it, 如果是十分钟的电影片段
it's a 10 minute film clip, 它不会被计入报告时间
it dosen't count as part of the 10 to 30 minutes. 尤其是当你截取20分钟电影片段时
Especially if you have 20 minute film clip 除非你准备来次讲座 那也可以
unless you are giving a lecture,which is fine. 要包括练习
And include exercise. 如果这是个工作坊 你会做哪些练习?
So if this is a workshop,what exercise would you do? 你会让
Would you have, 参与者相互表达感激吗?
you know participants express gratitude to one another? 你会让他们写篇日记吗?
Would you have them writting a journal? 你会让他们在课后出去锻炼身体吗？
Would you have them go out and exercise physically later? 所以还要包括练习 下面是提交日期
So include exercises as well. Here are the dates. 这是...你们的最后期限是
So this is em... These are your deadlines, 或者说你们报告的生命线是
or rather,your lifelines in this project. 3月20日 在春假之前
March 20th,just before spring break, 你们只需要告知助教你们的主题
all you need to do is let your TF know your topic. 一个字 一句话 "感激"也好 "灵性"也好
One word,one sentence- it's gratitude. It's spirituality. 是"身与心" 身体练习 都可以
It's mind-body. Specifically physical exercise. 通知他们一声
Just let them know. 一两周后 你们可以改主意
Now you may change that a week later or two weeks later. 我们只希望你们开始思考
But we just want you to start honing and thinking about 你最想做的主题 那是3月20日的任务
what your likely topic will be. So that's March 20. 4月7日 让你们享受几天春假
April 7- give you some time after spring break, 放假时不必操心课业
so you don't have to work on it over spring break, 虽然我们希望你们能抽时间思考
though we hope you'll at least think about it 放假期间阅读些材料
and read some stuff over spring break. 4月7日交一页大纲 你的主题的草稿
April 7: one page outline. A draft of your topic. 这个也不计入分数
Again,this is not graded. 只是为你们自己 确认是否通过
This is just for you,meaning pass/fail. 所以必须交上来 只是为了你们自己
So you have to hand it in. Just for you. 好让你们和助教商量 5月3日之前
Then you can talk to your teaching fellow about it. By May 3, 向至少三到四位同学作一次报告
give the presentation to at least three or four classmates. 如果你是进修学院学生 就给别人讲一次
If you are in extention school,give it to other people. 征求他们提供意见
And ask them for feedback. 得到反馈意见 最好是书面的
And you'll get feedback- ideally,written feedback. 到时我们会谈到具体的过程
We'll talk to you about the process later on when the time comes. 这个也不计入分数 只是为了你们自己
Again,this is not graded. It's for you. 既为你也为参与者
It's for you as well as for the participants, 因为你们在传递
because you are paying it forward. 可以是一份草稿 就是一份草稿
It can be a rough draft. It is a rough draft. 我也会给出意见
And I'll give you feedback and say, "我觉得还缺一个故事
"you know,what I thought was missing is maybe an extra story 我感觉你的研究资料不足"
or I felt like you were not grouded enough in research." 或者"再加入更多活力"
Or,you know,"introduce a little bit more energy." 不论是什么 向听众获取意见来帮助你
Or whatever it is. Get feedback from them to help you. 再过一周就是期末报告的截止日
And then the week later,the final project will be due. 有什么问题吗? 如果你有问题
Any questions about this? If you have a question, 别人也可能有同样的问题
probbably others have the same questions. 关于期末报告有任何问题吗?
So any questions about the final project? 好的 想一想 请说
Ok. Think about it. Yes. Question. 不 不是分组进行 其实你们会...好的
No,it's not in section. You will actually... Ok. 问题是你们在哪里作报告
So the question is where do you make the presentation. 你们会被分成组
You'll have to get together with your group, 和另外三到四个人 可能是三人一组
the other three or four,probably be three. 然后相互作报告
And give each other the presentation. 想用幻灯片
If you want to do it with powerpoints 做完整的报告 非常好
and the whole thing,that's perfectly fine. 只想读或说出来
If you just want to read it or speak it, 也完全没有问题
that's perfectly fine too. 可以选择对你最有帮助的方式
Your choice is whatever you think would be most helpful to you. 再强调一次 这个设计是为了你们自己
Again,this project is for you. 是为了你们自己 希望那些
It's for you and for others hopefully 听你报告的人也能从中受益
who will benefit from hearing what you have to say. 做过这个设计的学生们
Students who have done it- 过去两年我们一直有这么做
we've already done it for the last two years. 我教的第一年只提交了普通报告
The first year I taught it- we just had a regular paper. 学生们非常喜欢这个过程
And the students enjoy this process so much more 从中获益良多 他们保留了这种作法
and get so much more out of it and it stays with them. 因为你可以用这个方式
Because it's something you can take,again, 在修完这门课后继续向外传递 还有问题吗? 是的
pay forward also when you are done here. Other questions? Yes. 塔尔宾夏哈尔博士
Dr. Tal Ben-Shahar: 是的 很好的问题
Yes. Good question. 是否要收窄到一个主题
So are you supposed to narrow down a topic 而不是笼统的人生灵性体验?
as opposed to being very general life spirituality? 这完全看你们 你可以先概况
Up to you. Up to you. You can give an overview and then, 在报告结束时再说
at the end of your presentation,say,you know, 有一些很有趣的研究
these are some of the interesting studies, 如果你们想了解更多
but if you want more information,you know, 可以去那里找找 也可以做些特别的报告
you can look there. Or you can do something very particular. 比如去教堂的好处
So the benefit of church going. 或有氧锻炼的好处
Or the benefit of aerobic exercise. 可以专注于一个主题也可以更笼统
It can be very specific or much more... 比如有氧锻炼的心理益处
Or the benefit,psychological benefit of Arabic exercise. 即可以专注于一个主题也可以很概括
So it can be very specific or very general. 由你们决定 只要你觉得更感兴趣
Up to you. Whatever you think would be more interesting to you. 我们经常会发现
And what often happens when we found this is that 当你们着手准备讲座 查资料
once you get into the literature,you are going through info- 阅读很多研究时 那时你们才会明白
you'll read a lot of studies there. That's when you understand, "仅就这个问题 我就有很多资料
"OK,I have so much material on just this specific point 我准备专注这里"
I am going to focus here." 或者我很想概述整个主题
Or I really want an overview of this whole topic. 然后在后面的报告中
And then in later presentations, 或者我会在以后专注这个主题编一堂课
or I'll create a whole class just based on this topic later on. 或者网站 很多学生
Or website. There are actually many students 根据他们的报告开设了网站
who created websites based on their projects. 那里还有人举手 或者你只想问候一下?
There was another hand up there. Or were you just saying hi? 是的 他们听不到你说的话
Hi. Yes. They can't hear you. 世界各地的进修学院的学生
For extention students all over the world, 你们可以在任何地方选两三个人
you are going to pick two or three people anywhere, 家人 朋友
family,friends, 任何人都可以 但要是你的"美丽敌人"
whoever it is but people who will be "beautiful enemies" to you, 他们会给你真实的意见
who will give you real feedback. 因为他们关心你 好了 还有吗?
Because they care about you. Good. Alright. No one else? 好的 还有问题的
Alright,if you have further questions, 可以问你们的助教或问我
ask your TF or ask me. 祝你身体健康
(A student sneezes.) Bless you. 改变 可以说
Change. In many ways, 整门课都在讲改变
we've been talking about change the whole class. 这门课就是关于"改变" 我在第一堂课就说
This class is about change,as I said on the first class, 如果我认为人不能改变 我就不会上这门课
I wouldn't be teaching it if I didn't think people could change. 我说到改变时 我说的是不同的层次
And when I talk change,I am talking about different levels. 可以是培养一个习惯
Whether the change in terms of introducing a habit: 我想每周锻炼三次 为什么？
I want to start exercising for three times a week. Why? 因为几周后 你们会看到
Because as you'll see from a few weeks from now, 每周锻炼三次的效果
exercising three times a week has the same effect 和很多有效的心理药物相同
as some of our most powerful psychiatric drugs. 或者你想培养的习惯是
Or let's say habit you want to introduce is you know, 我希望人生的精神层面更丰富
I want to introduce spirituality to my life. 改变也可以是"我想更快乐"
Or change could be "I want to be happier". 我希望不要那么焦虑
I want to experience less anxiety. 一般的焦虑或者特定的焦虑 例如考前
General anxiety or specific anxiety,before tests. 不论你希望生活有什么样的改变
Whatever the change you want to introduce to in your life, 总有一定的模式和方法行之有效
there are certain patterns,certain approaches that work, 另一些方法行之无效
certain approaches that don't work. 未来两堂课我们要做的是
What we are going to do next two classes, 两堂半课 是区分哪些行之有效
two and a half classes is differentiate what works 哪些行之无效 以便让你们将之应用于生活
and what dosen't so that you can apply it to your life. 首先 关于改变 我们谈过很多
So first of all,we've talked a lot about change. 让我们来回顾一下曾经讨论过的问题
Let's recap some of the things that we discussed. 首先 在第二堂课上 我们已经提到
First of all,on the second class we already mentioned this, 改变很难
that change is hard. 很多研究都证明了改变有多难
And there are a lot of studies to show how hard change is. 双胞胎研究 还记得结论吗
The twin research. Remember the conclusion. 尝试改变快乐水平
Try and change your happiness is 如同试图改变身高一样徒劳
as difficult and futile as trying to change your height. 虽然他们后来也说
Now even though they went back on their word and they said "不一定是不可能和徒劳的"
"well it's not really impossible and futile", 但他们的研究证明了很难做到
still what they did show in their studies is that it is very hard 双胞胎研究 快乐是一种随机现象
The twin studies. Happiness is a stochastic phenomenon. 还有Daniel Gilbert的关于有效预测的研究
Then Daniel Gilbert's work on affective forecasting. 在哈佛得到终身职位 或考入哈佛后
Yeah we experience it an up after we get tenure 我们的幸福感上升 当我们遭到拒绝时
or after we get into Harvard,and we experience a down 经历下行
when we are rejected by whatever it is. But 但很快我们又恢复到幸福感的基准线上
then very quickly we go back up to our base level of wellbeing. 人生的多数时候
And most of our life 幸福感都是在基准线上下波动
looks like this around this straight base level. 获得上升抛物线很难
It's very difficult to get an upward trajectory. 通过去面对可能做到 但很难
It's possible through coping for example,but it's difficult. 剑桥-萨默维尔研究表明
The Cambridge-Somerville study- 五年的干预 最终导致消极改变
5 year intervention that ultimately led to negative change, 即使有最好的心理学家 心理治疗师
whether there's more alcoholism among the people 社工和各种计划进行干预
who did go through that intervention with bright in the best. 实验人群中还是有更多人酗酒
Psychologists,psychiatrists,social workers,programs. 我们知道改变很难
So we know change is hard, 不论是个人还是社会层面
whether it's on the individual level or on the society level. 然而我们也知道改变是可能的
However,we also know the change is possible. 我们知道很多人争辩说
We know that many of the people who argue that change 改变是不可能的 他们犯了普遍性的错误
is not possible are making the error of the average, 只看平均分而不看例外情况
looking at the average score as opposed to outlayers, 不看那些实现改变的人
as opposed to people who have introduced change. 当我们研究改变时 是例外证明了改变是可能的
And when we study change,it's the exception that proves the rule 如果改变是可能的 有些人实现了改变
So if change is possible and some people have been able to change 或者是通过治疗 读一本书
whether it's through therapy,whether it's by reading a book, 参加学习
whether it's being a part of the class, 或者是通过交谈
whether it's through conversation- 有时只需要一句话
sometimes it's a single sentence 就能改变他们的整个人生
that makes a difference to their entire life, 他们是例外
they are the exceptions. But 但问题不再是改变是否可能
the questions are no longer whether or not change is possible. 问题是"如何才能实现改变"
The question is "how is change possible". 这个问题我们将在讲座中
And this is the question we are going to address in much greater 更深入在更高层次上讲
depth on a higher level of the spiral in these lectures. 改变是什么样的? 我们从微观上说
What does change look like? Let's go micro here. 去到大脑的层面 改变到底是什么模样的?
Let's go to the brain level. How does change actually look like? 改变发生时 我们的大脑有什么变化? 直到1998年
What happens in our brain when change occurs? Until 1998, 神经科学家认为大脑是不变的
neuro scientists thought that the brain was essentially fixed. 我们生来具有一定的神经元 一定的通道
We are born with certain neurones,certain pathways. 大脑在三岁之后不会生长 不会改变
The brain doesn't grow,dosen't change pass the age of,say three 开始时大脑可能会改变发展
Maybe first a few experiences the brain still changes and evolves 但三岁之后 不会再改变
But after the age of three,no change. 这个理论直到1998年仍站得住脚
And this theory which was held until 1998- 也就是在不久以前 这个理论让人相信
I mean that's not so long ago,this theory gave credence, 并实际证明了
and actually proved positive for "快乐是随机现象"的正确
"happiness is a stochastic phenomenon". 你生来具有一个的基因
You are born with certain genes. 生来具有一个的倾向
You are born with certain inclinations 具有一定的神经元通道
with certain neurone pathways. 有一些经历对你产生深刻影响
You have a few experiences that really affect you a great deal, 正如弗洛伊德的论点  而剩下的人生
as Freud argued. And then the rest of your life, 就是围绕那个水平波动
you are going to just fluctuate around that same level. 不会改变 直到1998年
No change. That was until 1998. In 1998, 科学家开始发现大脑其实是改变的
scientists started to notice that the brain actually does change. 并得出神经可塑性的概念
And they came up with the concept of neuroplasticity. 神经可塑性是指神经元有可塑性 它们会改变
Neuroplasticity are nuerones are plastic- they change. 不仅如此 不只大脑的通道会改变
Not only that,not only do the pathways change in the brain- 一会我们就会看到
and we'll look at it in a minute, 他们还得出另一个概念
but also they've come up with another concept, 即神经形成 神经元是发展的
which is neurogenesis. Neurones develop, 在人的一生中不断生成 直到我们死去
are created throughout our lives until the day we die potentially 因此 事实并不是
So it's not the fact that 我们生来具有一定的神经元
we are born with certain number of neurones 然后就一直走下坡
and it's downhill from there, 传统的认识让我们相信这种说法
as conventional wisdom had us to believe- 今天仍有很多人相信这种说法
as many people still believe today. 不 神经元是发展生长的 在人生过程中不断出现
No,neurones are developed and grow,emerge throughout our lives. 原来大脑在很多方面很像一块肌肉
The brain,it turns out,in many ways is like muscle: 使用它就不会失去它 使用它能让它再生
use it and you don't lose it. Use it and you generate, 让肌肉更发达 问题是
you build the muscle up. And the question is 要如何使用它 才能让它帮助我们
how do we use it so that it becomes an assistant in a way, 变得更加快乐
help toward becoming happier. 我们来看看大脑到底是什么样子的
So let's look at what the brain actually look like. 大脑里有数以百万计的通道
What it looks like is that there are millions of channels inside, 神经通道 不同神经元在大脑里的连接
neural pathways,connections between different neurones in brain 看上去就像这样
that look something like this. 你们能看到有些很薄 是新生的
As you can see,some are very thin,are relatively new. 有些更厚 更健全
some are much thicker,much more established. 它作用的方式很像自然界
And the way it works in many ways is like in nature. 即有大河 宽敞的渠道
You have large rivers,large channels. 也有小河 狭窄的渠道
And you have tiny rivers and tiny channels. 原理是这样的
And what happens is that 每次神经元之间发生联系 换言之
every time a connection is made between neurones- in other words, 你的思维模式有特定的路径运作
your thought pattern follows a certain path. 那个路径会成长
That path grows. 像河流一样 每次有水流过
Just like a river- every time the water passes there, 河流都会变得宽一些
it gets this much,this much wider. 没有水的时候
And when there is no water there, 神经元不工作时
there is no work being done in the neurone, 打个比方 它会萎缩一点
metaphorically speaking,it shrinks a little bit. 使用时神经通道得到扩展
So neural pathways grow with use 不使用时就会萎缩
and they shrink when there is no use. 如果一条新的神经通道刚刚生成
If it's something new,a new neural pathway that 因为神经是有可塑性的
was just created because remember- there's neuroplasticity. 神经通道不断生成 因为有神经形成
Neural pathways are created constantly. There is neurogenesis. 新的神经元不断生成 开始时很薄
New neutrones are created constantly. Initially it's very thin. 举个例子 我学法语 学了一个新词
Let's say for example,I study French. And I learn a new word. 我的大脑里形成新的联系
A new connection is made in my brain. 如果我只听了这个词一次
Now if I hear the word once and never again, 神经通道会分裂 会消失
the neural pathway will disintegrate,will disappear. However, 如果我不断重复听到那个词
if I continue hearing that word over and over and over again, 最后通道会变得越来越厚
after all it will become thicker and thicker. 我说的比实际过程简化得多
Ok this is a way over simplification of the real process. 但它会变得更厚
But it will become thicker. 我就会一生记得这个词
And then I'll remember it for the rest of my life. 就像形成了一条新的河流
It will be established like a river that is established, 不再是涓涓流淌的小溪
as opposed to a tiny stream and trickle 可能在某一天消失
that can disappear in a day. 这是我们理解改变思维的
And here is the key aspect for understanding 关键方面
how we can change our thought, 并最终提升我们的幸福感
how we can change our wellbeing ultimately. 神经通道会自我巩固的 像河流一样
The neural pathways are self-reinforcing,just like rivers are. 想一想 下雨时 下倾盆大雨时
Think about it: when it rains,when there is a down pour, 水流向已有的河流
the water gravitates toward the existing river, 流向渠道 流向我们建好的沟渠
toward the channels,toward the drains that we have built. 如果之前什么都没有
It's much less likely to create a new river 那么形成一条河流或小溪会更难
or a new stream with there's nothing before. 我们的经历也更倾向于流向
So the experience is much likely to gravitate to 已建成的神经通道并进一步加固它
already established neural pathways and strengthen it further, 而不是生成一条新的神经通道
as opposed to create new neural pathways, 所以如果我们想记住什么东西
which is why if we want to remember something, 和其他东西产生联系是个很好的方法
it's very good to make connections to other things, 和已有的神经通道 已有的记忆产生联系
to existing neural pathways,to existing memories. 让我再解释一次
Let me explain this again, 理解这一点很重要
because this is important to understand. 理解这一点 其实...
Because understanding this can actually... 这是Carol Dweck 斯坦福的教授的研究结论
this is something that Carol Dweck,professor at Stanford showed 理解神经可塑性
and understanding this neuroplasiticity, 理解我们如何实现改变
understanding how we actually can change can make us 能让我们更容易成功
more likely to succeed in one of the ways of success- 能让我们更加快乐 理解这一点很重要
to actually become happier. So it's important to understand. 已建成的神经通道吸引更多活动
And established neural pathway attracts more action 从而变得更厚
and it attracts more action and gets thicker. 没有建成的通道
Something that's not established, 一条小溪更容易消失
a tiny little stream is more likely to be just wiped away. 当它变得更宽 就更可能保留下来
As it grows more,it's more likely to stay, 不仅保留下来而且能继续生长
not just stay,grow even more. 它是自行巩固的 习惯就是如此
It is self-reinforcing. And this is what habits are. 一种做法被反复巩固
When something is reinforced over and over again, 就变成一种习惯 比如打网球
it becomes a habit. For example,you play tennis 你反反复复运用正手击球
and you hit the forehand over and over and over again. 开始时你要考虑怎么打 必须集中精神
Initially you have to think about it. You have to concentrate. 手腕翘起来一点
You have to,you know,maybe cock your wrist a little bit, 知道球拍应该停在哪里
maybe understand exactly where you stop the racket, 但一段时间之后 挥过几百几千次后
but after a while, after doing it hunderds of, thousands of times 你不用再考虑怎么打
you don't need to think about it anymore. 它已经刻成槽 我使用"刻成槽"这个词
It's already grooved. And the word that I used is grooved, 因为事实上你创造了一条新渠道
specifically because you essentially created a new channel. 只有有球飞过来
And whenever a ball comes toward you, 你不需要再考虑
automatically you don't even need to think about it. 它被吸引
It gravitates. 你的思维被引向那个或那些特别的通道
Your mind gravitates toward that particular path or paths, 很多通道 告诉你"举起球拍击球"
many paths that tell you "lift it up and hit". 完全是自动的 音乐也是如此
It's automatic. Same with music. 经常练习演奏的人
And what it has shown is people who practice music regularly 或经常练习一种运动的人
or practice a sport regularly, 他们的大脑真的会改变形状
their brain actually changes its shape. 更多神经通道在那个区域形成
More neural pathways are created around these areas "让我演奏C调"
that mean "let me play a C now" "让我的手指这样移动"
or "let me move my fingers in this way" 根据我看到的乐章
based on somthing that I see on the page. 特定的神经通道被创造出来
Certain neural pathways are created, 大脑在那些区域变成更厚
and the brain actually becomes thicker in these areas. 更多经验流入 做得越多 经验流入的越多
Or more experience flow in: the more we do it,the more they flow 直到它变成沟槽
Until it becomes grooved 让我不需要考虑就能演奏降C调
and I don't need to think about how to play C-. 完全是自动的 他们做过一项研究
It's automatic. They did a research. 这是做过的首批研究中的一项
This was the first research,one of the first research projects 让他们发现大脑其实是改变的
where they found the brain actually changes. 他们让伦敦的出租车司机或新手司机
They took taxi drivers or freshly minted taxi drivers from London 他们如果想获得执业证
And what they had to do,to become,to get their certificate, 他们的许可 他们必须学习伦敦地图
their approval,they had to study the map of London. 伦敦地图
Now the map of London is much more complicated 比纽约地图复杂得多
than study the map of New York. 去过伦敦的人都知道
Those of you who have been to London. 但他们花很多时间研究地图
But they studied and they spent a lot of time. 他们发现司机们的大脑
What they found was the brain, 他们的视觉皮质的一部分发生变化
part of their visual cortex actually changed from 在司机学习伦敦地图前后
before they started to study the maps of London to after. 因为他们在使用那部分大脑
Because they were working that part of the brain. 他们有经验
They had experiences. 这些经验在大脑中形成沟槽
And these experiences created grooves inside their brain, 当有人说"牛津广场"时 他们立即知道
so when someone said "Oxford Circus",immediately they knew 要走哪条街才能去到牛津广场
what street they need to take to Oxford Circus. 他们的大脑变得更大
Their brain actually became bigger. 那改变了他们的神经可塑性 那是个好消息
It changed their neuroplasiticity. And that's wonderful news. 是非常好的消息 那意味着我们可以控制
It's really wonderful news. Because it means we have control. 我们可以引入改变
And we can introduce change. 在大脑中既有健康通道也有不健康的
Now in our brain,there are both healthy and unhealthy pathways. 比如说
So for example, 一些消极的通道 一个总是忧心重重的人
some of the negative channels may be one of the constant worrier- 一个事事担心的人 只要有事发生
someone who worries a lot. That every time something happens, 他们立即转向
immediately they gravitate to "那对未来意味着什么?"
"ok so what does that mean for the future?" "那对我的期望意味着什么?"
Or "what does that mean now for my prospects?" "那对今天意味着什么?" 时刻担心各种事情
"What does it mean for today?" Constantly worrying about things. 甚至经常为好事担心
Even good things very often. 他们会立即把好事理解成需要担心的事
They immediately interpret it as something to be worry about. 或者发现缺陷 消极思维会通过那条大脑通道
Or fault finding. That's pathways in the brain where I look for- 再说一次 通道是自行巩固的
again they are self-reinforcing- 我会通过那条通道不断寻找我的缺陷
I begin to look for in my world things that go wrong. 我还记得自己的亲身经历
Remember my personal experience 当我获得本校的奖学金时
where I got the fellowship as a senior here. 我得到了奖学金 但我的大脑立即开始想
And I got the fellowship and immediately my brain gravitated "但我为什么没得到另一个?"
toward "Ok but why didn't I get the other one?" 我有那么多事情值得感激
I had so many things to be grateful for. 但作为消极者 神经通道
But it's the fault finder immediately the neural pathway, 经验流向的河流是条最大的河
the river this experience fell into was the largest one. 当时对我来说 最宽的河流就是消极的
And the largest one for me at that time was being a fault finder. 也有积极的渠道
Then there are positive channels as well. 积极的渠道是什么? 积极者
What are the positive channels? Benefit finder. A person 一个即使在困难环境也能发现恩惠的人
who is able to find benefit even in the hard circumstances. 也许不会说塞翁失马 焉知非福
May not say that the things happen for the best, 但他会从发生的事情中寻找恩惠
but something,but people made the best of things happen. 乐观主义者
The optimist. 乐观主义的渠道更大更宽
Again,much larger,much wider channels for optimism. 经验流向那里
And the experiences gravitate toward there. 今天我们对大脑的认识更多
Today we know much more how the brain works. 这些渠道存在在哪里?
And where these channels exist? 我给大家举个众所周知的例子
so let me give you an example of the one of the things we know. 我们都知道
One of the things that we know is that people 经常使用左侧前额皮质的人
who have more action on the left side of the prefrontal cortex, 和经常使用右侧前额皮质的人相比
compared to the right side of the prefrontal cortex, 要更快乐 更易受积极情绪的影响
are general happier. More susceptible to positive emotions, 对痛苦情绪的适应性更强
more resilient in phase of painful emotions. 前额皮质这部分的活动更多
More activation here- prefrontal cortex, 与右侧前额皮质相比
compared to the right side of the prefrontal cortex. 右侧活动更多的人
People who have more activation on the right side compard to 和左侧活动更多的人相比要更压抑
the left of f the prefrontal cortex are generally more depressed. 今天我们知道这些 是因为有功能性磁共振成像
Now we know that today because we have FMRI, 因为我们有脑电图
because we have EEG. 能看到大脑两侧的运作
We can see how much the brain works on each side. 但几百年前 我们已经知道这一点了
But we knew that already hundreds of years ago. 我们知道这边与积极情绪有关
We knew that this side is associated with positive emotions, 前额皮质这侧的活动越多
and more activation on this side of the front, 与痛苦情绪相关联
is associated with painful emotions. 怎么知道的? 因为人们发生意外时
How? Because when people,for example were in an accident, 意外发生在他们身上
and the accident happened to them 左侧前额皮质受损时
and the left side of the prefrontal cortex was damaged, 他们经常变得更抑郁
very often they became more depressed. 因为右侧的活动更多
Because they had more activation on the right side as a result. 相比而言
In comparison, 另一方面如果意外发生在右侧
people who had an accident on the right side on the other hand, 右侧受损 人们经常会变得更快乐
on the right side,very often,became happier. 我不建议以此为干预方法
Now I don't recommen this as an intervention. 不管有没有父母在家 都不要在家尝试
Don't try it at home without your parents or with your parents. 但是如果走在街上 碰巧摔倒
However,if you walk in the street,and you happen to fall, 最好往这边摔 大家记往了
it's always better to fall this way. So just keep that in mind. 需要记住的更重要的事是
Important thing to keep in mind then is that 相同的刺激往往造成不同的反应
very often the same trigger causes very different reactions. 世界不只是外在世界
Again the world is not just the external world. 还有一个内在世界
It's also the internal world. 记往对同一个头脑来说 正如爱默生所说
Remember to the same mind,as Emerson said, 同样的世界...对不同的头脑来说
the same world can be... or to the different minds, 同样的世界即可能是天堂也可能是地狱
the same world can be a heaven or a hell. 要看那种经验流向哪里
Depends on what that experience gravitates toward. 多年来 我变得
Over the years,I've become a  much more, 更像一个积极者 通过修习
much more of a benefit finder through the exercise, 通过沉思 通过书写 写日记
through thinking about it,by writting,keeping a journal, 通过身体锻炼 我变成了积极者
by physically exercising,I become much more of a benefit finder. 为此我付出很多努力
I've done a lot of work in that. 我人生最大的财富
One of the great fortunes in my life is that 是我娶了一个完美的积极者
I married a consummate benefit finder. 我的妻子Tommy 她不需要后天的努力
Tommy,my wife doesn't have to work that hard at it. 举个例子 我们参加一次派对回来
So for example,we would come back from a party. 派对上有个人一个劲地说话
And there was someone at the party who couldn't stop talking. 你们遇到过吗...一个说个不停的人
Have you encountered a person... Well,couldn't stop talking. 我正要和Tommy抱怨
And I just about to tell Tommy you know, 说个人就是个话痨
this person just couldn't shut his or her mouth. 她在我开口前说了什么? 她说
And what would she say before I open my mouth? She said, "你看那个人多好
"see how wonderful that person was 他对所做的事是如此热情?"
and he or she is so passionate about what they do?" 在我眼中多话 在她眼中是热情
So for me,it was talkative. For her,it was passion. 她自动地发现恩惠
Again,automatically going there. 这里有基因因素 我们会谈到基因
There is a genetic set point- and we'll talk about the genes- 让某些人比其他人更善于发现益处
that lead some people to be much more benefit finders than others 但与此同时 我们可以加以培养
But at the same time,we can work on it. 我们可以一条通道一条通道地塑造
We can work on it,pathway by pathway. And 我们所做的就是改变大脑
what we are doing there is quite literally transforming the brain 我们会在讲到"念"和"冥想"时讲这个问题
We'll talk about during the week on mindfulness meditation 冥想 比如经常做瑜珈
that meditation- for instance regular yoga- actually makes our.. 能改变我们大脑里的通道
changes the pathwaya in our brain, 让左侧相比右侧更活跃
makes it more active on the left side compared to the right side. 让我们更易受到积极情绪的感染
Makes it more susceptible to positive emotions, 对痛苦情绪有更好的承受力
more resilient to the phase of painful emotions. 我们可以改变大脑 利用神经可塑性和神经形成
We can change the brain. Neuroplasiticity and neurogenesis. 下周我们会谈到两种类型的改变
We are going to talk about two types of change in this next week. 第一种是渐进的改变
The first type of change is the gradual approach. 这种改变是一点点凿掉多余的石头
This is the change of gradually chipping away excess stone. 这种改变
This is the change that 就像自然界的水冲刷石块
we see in nature with the water sweeping away the stone, 历经时日 让石块变得更薄更光滑
making it thinner over time,making it smoother. 渐进的改变 这是世上最常见的改变
The gradual change. This is the change we mostly see in the world 这是健康的改变 没有捷径 需要时间
It's the healthy change. There is no quick fix. It takes time. 然而改变的过程可以和结果一样让人享受
However,the change process can be as enjoyable as the outcome. 想想学习演奏乐器
Think about how to learn to play musical instrument. 它需要时间 是相同的过程
It takes time. It's by the way the same process, 因为我们在大脑里创造新的神经通道
because we are creating new neural pathways in our brain, 当我们学习演奏乐器时
when we are learning musical instrument. 我们享受十年的学习过程
We can enjoy the process that ten years 最后在Leverett学生社交室里举办的音乐会上演奏
that it takes us to get to play in a concert in Leverett JCR. 我们可以享受最后站在台上演奏前的乐趣
We can enjoy the process of getting there before we are there. 所以改变本身也可以很有趣
So the change process in and of itself can also be fun. 我们即能享受过程也能享受结果
We can enjoy the journey as well as the destination. 它需要时间 很多时间
It takes time. A lot of time. 也有实现改变的剧烈方法
Then there is also the acute approach to change. 如果用水冲刷石头
You know if the metaphore for the gradual change 来比喻渐进的改变
was the water breaking down stone, 可以用拿大锤
the metaphore for acute approach is taking a sledgehammer 砸石头来比喻剧烈的改变
and breaking the water,breaking the stone. 就像摩西那样 剧烈的改变
You know what Moses did. The acute change. 不需要太多时间 立即发生
Takes... Dosen't take much time. It happens immediately. 但要记住的重要的一点是
But the important thing to keep in mind, 剧烈的改变不是一步奏效 剧烈的改变
with the acute change is it's not a quick fix. The acute change, 经常需要很多准备功夫 打个比方
very often,takes a lot of preparation,metaphorically speaking- 你需要很多力气去挥大锤
You need a lot of strength to pick up the hammer 还要有力气砸下去
and to have the power to put it down. 所以也需要时间 两者都需要时间
So it takes time. Both take time. 记往这一点很重要 为什么? Martin Seligman说过
And that's important to keep in mind. Why? Martin Seligman: "相信有捷径通向满足
“The belief that we can rely on shortcuts to gratification 绕过个人力量和美德的训练
and bypass the exercise of personal strengths 是很蠢的 它导致很多人
and virtues is folly. It leads to legions of humanity 在坐拥巨大财富时感到抑郁
who are depressed in the middle of great wealth 精神饥渴而死"
and are starving to death spiritually." 这是当今世界不快乐的
This is one of the main reasons 一个主要原因 我先提示一下
for the unhappiness in the world today. I alluded to it 我会在结束前多讲一些
but I want to elaborate it a little bit more before we end. 有多少同学读过
How many here have read,by the way, Stephen Covey的《高效能人士的七个习惯》
the Seven Habits of Highly Effective People,Stephen Covey. 好 不少同学读过 很好的一本书
Ok. Quite a few. It's a wonderful book. 就算不是最好也是其中之一的自励书
One of the best,if not the best self-help books out there. Stephen Covey在书的开头
Stephen Covey at the beginning of the book 谈到他的博士论文的研究课题
talks about the research that he did for his PHD. 他所做的是
And what he did was look 看过去200年来成功学著作
at the success literature of the last 200 years. 他发现1930年是个分界线
And what he found was that there was a real cut-off point in 1930 1930年之前 19世纪和20世纪初
Until 1930,19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, 自励在于性格改变
self-help was about character change. 从内在改变自己
It was about changing who you are from inside. 需要努力挣扎 跌倒再爬起
It was about struggling in hard work and failing and going, 经历苦难
getting up again. Going through hardships. 一步步地改变 缓慢渐进地实现
And changing step by step,slowly,gradually. 1930年剧烈改变 从性格改变变成一步奏效
1930- radical change. From character change,it became quick fix. 想发财
Thinking grow rich. 如何结交权势 现在就做
How to win friends in influent people. Do it now. 秘密就是 快速改变 立即改变 轻易的改变
The secret- quick change,immediate change,easy change. 1930年代以来
And from the 1930s, 我们看到人们幸福感不断下降
what we see is a decline in people's level of well being. 人变得更加抑郁 更加焦虑
Much more depression. Much more anxiety. 其中一个原因就是
And one of the reasons is that. 人们希望相信他们能发到一步奏效的办法
That people hope and believe that they can find quick fix. 没有一步奏效的办法 需要时间去实现改变
There is no quick fix. It takes time. It takes time to change. 但改变的过程可以是很享受的
However,the change process can be as enjoyable, 如同最终实现改变一样乐趣无穷 令人兴奋
as fun,as exciting as ultimately achieving the change. 下周我们就会谈到这个美妙的过程
And next week we'll talk about that wonderful process. 祝大家周未愉快
Have a good weekend. 



 Chapter 9: 如何去改变


早上好 今天要讲的是变化
Hi,good morning! So today's lecture is about change. 今天很多事都会发生变化
And things are going to change today. 我们之间的关系会发生变化 敬请关注啊
Our relationship is going to change today.So stay tuned. 上节课
Last time, 上节课结束的时候 我们谈到很多种不同变化
last time we ended by talking about the different kinds of change 第一种方式 是渐进式的
The first approach—the gradual approach, 好像滴水穿石
like water wearing down stone, 要花时间的一点一点 慢慢的
chipping away gradually slowly taking our time. 第二种方式 是突发式的
The second approach—the acute change, 好像用大锤开山劈石
the sledge hammer breaking stone creating a new pathway, 凿出一条路 一个隧道
a new channel. 对于这两种变化 或是所有形式的变化
The important thing to keep in mind with both forms of changes, 必须要注意的是
with all form of change, 我们讲的重点是要将变化持续下去
lasting change that is,which is what we are about. 而不是突然一变之后又恢复原状
Not just the spike and the return to base level. 因此要注意的是
The thing to keep in mind about change 变化既不是药到病除的灵丹妙药
is that neither is quick-fix. 即便当我们举起大锤
Even when we pick up that sledge hammer, 就是这举起来的动作
even when we pick it up, 也需要我们在之前做很多准备的功夫
we need to do a lot of work before the preparation. 因此 举例来说 渐进式的变化
So for example,gradual change, 包括每天都做感恩练习
slow change would be doing the gratitude exercise everyday, 慢慢成为一个更容易找寻美好的人
slowly becoming more and more of a benefit finder, 逐渐的看到更多积极的事物
gradually looking more at the positive, 一点一点的构建起新的神经通路
creating a new neural pathway neuron by neuron. 还记得我们之前说过的两个重要概念
Remember neuroplasticity and neurogenesis— 神经塑性和新生神经元吗?
two very important concepts 因为通过了解和理解我们大脑的变化
because just by knowing by understanding that our brain changes 我们自身也将更容易产生变化
that in and of itself makes us more likely to change. Carol Dweck做过相关研究
And this is work done by Carol Dweck, 我们之后谈到完美主义的时候还会提到她
whom I'll discuss in future courses when we discuss perfectionism 另外大锤的例子和探索经验是一回事
And then the sledge hammer example is like the Eureka experience, 真知灼见不是凭空产生的 而是经过
the great insight that doesn't come in a vacuum. 长时间准备后千锤百炼而得来的
It comes after a lot of hard work after a lot of preparation. 大家都知道所谓的灵感来自于99%的汗水
You know the 99% of perspiration that leads to that inspiration. 所以说 没有灵丹妙药 而且
So no quick-fix.And the believe in quick-fix, 正是那种对灵丹妙药的笃信和渴求
the expectation of the quick-fix that is one of the reasons 导致了今天抑郁症如此高发频发
why levels of the depression are so high today, 因为大家都很郁闷 很失望
because people are frustrated.They are disappointed. 发现灵丹妙药不管用的时候
They think there's something wrong with them 就觉得是自己出了问题
when they don't succeed in the quick-fix. 我在书里也写了 很可能他们认为
But they have just,I just write in the book that it's possible. "如果做完这五件事 我的人生就会美满了"
If I do these five things,I'd be happy for the rest of my life. 结果五件事做完 我却没有变得更快乐
And I do these five things.And I'm not happier. 于是我就开始怀疑自己
And I begin to question myself. 没有灵丹妙药 任何事都需要时间
No quick-fix.It takes time. 没有所谓什么"幸福生活五步走"
No five easy steps to happiness. 在我们讲变化过程之前
Before we go to the change process, 我们先要理清一些概念
there are a few things we need to understand. 首先我们要问的是
The first thing to understand is this. 我 或者你 真的想要改变吗?
Do I,do you really want to change? 我是不是真的想要改善我的个性
Do I really want to improve certain things in my personality… 或者我不喜欢的性格或行为 
things that… or character,or behavior,things that I don't like. 这不是一个无关紧要的问题
And it's not a trivial question. 也不是象征性地问自己一下
It is not a rhetorical question 因为表面上我们可能会说当然了
because very often on the conscious level we maybe saying yes, 但是潜意识里却有东西在阻挠我们
but on the subconscious level something is stopping us. 我给大家举个例子吧
Let me show you an example. 早在80年代的时候 Langer
So this is the study done by Langer and, 和Thompson曾做过一个实验
and Thompson back in the 80s. 这个实验是这样的
And here is what they did. 他们找来一些学生或参与实验的人
They brought students in or participants in. 然后问这些人
And they asked them 他们想不想要摆脱自己性格的某个方面
whether they wanted to get rid of certain characteristics, 比如说古板 或者容易轻信别人
like rigidity,or being gullible,or grimness. 或是冷酷 他们问这些人
And they asked them 想不想要摆脱这些性格
whether they wanted to get rid of these characteristics 想不想在这方面变的更好
and whether they succeeded in becoming better in this area. 是不是真的能改变自己 即是说
Were you able to introduce change, 如果改变对于你来说真的很重要
so were you able to actually become less rigid, 那你能不能最终变得不那么古板
if this was important for you to change, 不那么容易轻信别人 不那么冷酷
or less gullible,or less grim? 这就是他们最初问的两个问题
So this is the first two questions that they asked. 想不想改善 想不想改变
Did you want to improve it? Did you wanna change this? 第二个问题 能不能改变
The second question – were you successful? 然后 在他们问了这些问题之后
And then after they answered these questions, 实验还有第二个阶段 在这个阶段
there was the second part of the study 他们让这些人去评估
where they asked them to evaluate the positive, 评估下列正面性格 比如
the,the following positive characteristics. 言行一致对于你来说是否重要
Consistency,is it important to you? 值得信赖 是不是重要
Is it important to you to be trustworthy? 以及 被认为是一个严肃认真的人
And how important it is for you 对于你来说有多重要
to be and to be perceived as a serious person? 下面我们来说这个实验的有趣的结果
And here is the interesting finding of this research. 所有给这些正面性格打高分的人
Those individuals who rated the positive traits, 这些黄色的是正面性格
the ones in yellow,who rated them high, 认为这些性格很重要的人
as personally important to them 反而比较不容易去改变自己的负面性格
were less likely to change the negatives. 大家明白这其中的奥妙么?
Do you understand implications of the study? 也就是说 比如 
So what is saying is that… 我想要摆脱古板的个性
Let's say I do wanna get rid of rigidity. 我不喜欢自己那么古板
I don't like being rigid. 但是 与此同时
However at the same time 言行一致在我看来是非常重要的品格
consistency is a very important value to me. 我反而不容易去改变自己的古板
I'm less likely to change my rigidity 因为在我的意识里 它们是相互关联的
because they are associated in my mind. 对 我不想要古板下去了
And yeah,I don't want to be rigid. 同时我潜意识里有个小人却在说
But at the same time subconscious talking here. 我想要言行一致
I want to be consistent. 别摆脱古板 因为我把两者结合起来了
Don't let go of this rigidity because I couple them, 我把两者联系在一起了
I associate them together. 因此不想舍其一
Not wanting to get rid of one 因为我不想把婴儿和洗澡水一起倒掉
because I don't want the baby out with the bath water. 对于我来说两者是紧密相连的
And to me they are linked. 同理 还有轻信和值得信赖
The same with gullibility and trustworthiness. 这两种品质 可以说 值得信赖的人
We can say that 另一方面很容易轻信别人 这种性格
the other side of gullibility someone who's trustworthy. 极端化以后 人会变得容易轻信别人
Now going to the extreme.I become gullible. 然而 我却不想丢掉轻信别人的习惯
However I don't get rid of my gullibility 因为同时我不想丢掉我值得信赖的优点
because I don't want to also get rid of my trustworthiness. 同样的例子还有冷酷 我的冷酷
Same with grim.I may be grim 可能在潜意识里正反映出我的严肃认真
but that's also subconsciously a sign of my seriousness. 很多年来 真的是很久以来
You know for years,literally years, 我在思考分析 并写了很多
when I've been thinking and writing 关于完美主义的东西
and analyzing the notion of perfectionism, 我不能理解为什么我自身的情况
I couldn't understand why it didn't get better, 长久以来并未好转
for very long time. 因为我知道自己深受完美主义其害
Because I knew perfectionism was hurting me, 我读了研究报告 反省个人经历
I read the research,I look through personal experiences. 我知道完美主义对我百害无益 有损于我的健康
I knew it was hurting me in terms of my well-being for sure, 从长远来看 也阻挠我成功
but also in the long term in terms of my success.And 但是我却摆脱不了它 直到我读了这个报告
yet I couldn't get rid of perfectionism until I read the study. 于是 我问自己
And I asked myself, 'OK 与完美主义相对应的是什么呢'
‘OK,so what is the counterpart to perfectionism? 在我的意识里 它和什么联系在一起?
What's tied in my mind? 完美主义和什么密切相联呢?
What goes hand in hand for me with perfectionism?’ 和它密切相联的是动力和雄心
What goes hand in hand is drive and ambition. 如果我需要自我定义的话 首先要做的
And if I had to define myself,this is one of the first things 定义就是我有动力和雄心抱负
that I would define myself as I'm driven and I'm ambitious. 同时因为我不想失去这些品格
And because I didn't want to lose these characteristics, 我的潜意识便阻止我
my subconscious didn't let me, 摆脱对完美主义的追求
stopped me from getting rid of the perfectionism, 我对完美主义的定义是
perfectionism which I define as a debilitating fear of failure, 对失败的极度恐惧 失败会阻止我们
failure that prevents us… 我们会用整整一周来讲完美主义
we'll have a whole week on perfectionism. 到时候会讲的更深入一些
So we'll get more in depth if you'll understand what it means. 只有当我明白了这两者之间
And it was only once I understood 的密切关联
that for me these two things go hand in hand, 我才能够把它们拆开 分开
I was able to unpack them,to distinguish them. 我只想保留其一
I said I want to keep one not the other. 再比如 担忧和焦虑
Or for example,worry and anxiety. 其实我已经说过很多次了
Look I've mentioned these many times before, 我最终摆脱了焦虑的困扰
next time I'll talk to you about the process 下次我会和大家说说具体的过程
that I underwent to overcome anxiety. 自从很久以前开始
Part of me since the time I can't remember myself. 我上大学的时候 每当有壁球比赛也好
Being anxious whether it's before matches in squash, 或者是考试也好
whether it's before exams, 或是在分组讨论的时候发言之前
whether it's before speaking up in section 我都会非常焦虑
when I was an undergrad. 我不想再这样下去了 我不想要焦虑
And I wanted to stop that.I didn't want that. 然而 我却丢不掉这种担忧和焦虑
However,I didn't let go of worry and anxiety 因为我同时很重视责任感
because I also sort with responsibility. 如果我会焦虑 说明我有责任感
Well if I'm anxious,it can mean I'm responsible. 我会在上课前更认真的做准备
So I prepare for class much more 而不是随便糊弄 偷懒
as opposed to just let go and become a slacker. 因此我把焦虑和正面品格责任感联系起来
So I associated a positive trait which is responsibility. 还记得关于Brandon的故事吗
And remember Brandon? No one is coming? 责任感是非常重要的品质
Very important trait,responsibility. 但是它却阻挠我摆脱担忧和焦虑
But that prevented me from letting go. 这都是在潜意识里发生的
Subconscious level, 我之前并没有意识到这些
not conscious of the worry and anxiety that I often experienced. 还有 罪恶感
Guilt. 有好的罪恶感 也有不好的罪恶感
Again there is good guilt,there is bad guilt You know,it is. 我不想摆脱罪恶感 因为
Well,I don't want to get rid of guilt because what that means 我不想变得对他人冷漠无情
I'm not being empathic and sensitive toward other people. 我们经常会把这两者联系起来
Very often we connect the two..They go hand in hand. 还有一对概念 是精简化
Another couple is the notion of simplifying. 这也是我的切身体会
This is something very personal to me. 我想要减少工作量 因为
I wanted to do less because 我明白同时参与太多活动 有损于
I knew that taking on too many activities was actually hurting me 有损于我的工作效率 创造力和健康
was hurting my productivity,creativity,well-being. 但是我却没办法做到精简
I couldn't simplify. 为什么呢 因为我将它和失去优势联系起来
Why? Because I associate it in my mind with losing my edge. 所以我没办法做到精简
So I didn't let go. 还有我们上周谈到的寻找过错
Or fault-finding,we talked about this a week ago. 为什么人们不能停止寻找过错呢?
Why do people not let go of  fault-finding? 为什么要维持悲观的态度呢
Why do they remain pessimistic? 因为他们把寻找过错和现实主义联系起来
Because they connect it with the sense of realism. 我不想放弃这种现实的态度
I don't wanna stop being realisic. 不想变成一个脱离现实盲目乐观的人
I don't wanna be one of those detached Pollyannas. 因此我不会放弃寻找过错的习惯
And therefore I don't let go of my fault-finding. 幸福
Happiness. 通往幸福路上最大的障碍
One of the most significant barrier to people's happiness 就是人们把幸福和偷懒联系在一起
is that they associate happiness with slacking off, 因为当今文化中最为人所追捧
because the dominant paradigm, 所信奉的真理就是"没有付出就没有回报"
the dominant mantra in our culture today is ‘no pain,no gain.' 如果我现在很快乐 就意味着我不再经历痛苦
If I'm happy now,I ignore experiencing pain. 就意味着我放弃了
It means I'm letting go. 意味着我不会成功
It means I'm not gonna be successful. 意味着我已经失去了棱角
It means I'm gonna lose my edge. 意味着我不再有动力和雄心
It means I'm gonna lose my drive and ambition. 所以我们在潜意识里选择不快乐
So our subconscious prefers to keep,keep us unhappy, 这样的话 我们就不会失去其它珍贵的东西
so that we don't lose the other things that we value highly, 比如雄心壮志 比如长处优势
things such as ambition,things such as having an edge, 比如勤奋刻苦
things such as our hard work. 当然 依我们现在来看
Now of course when we look at them 我们知道这些东西并不是密不可分的
we know that they don't necessarily have to go hand in hand. 正相反 比如说 快乐
On the contrary,for example,happiness, 我们从"拓延-建构"理论中学到
we know from the broaden and build theory,the positive emotions 正面的情绪是和成功联系在一起的
are actually associated with higher levels of success. 等到春假之后 当我们讲到完美主义的时候
Whereas I'll talk about after spring break, 我会讲一些
when we talk about perfectionism. 从研究中得来的理论
We know from research, 大家可以把这些理论和你们个人联系起来
you'll be able to connect it also in the person. 你们中间有很多人会发现可以
Many of you will be able to connect it in the personal level. 将其和自身联系起来
We know that letting go of this fear of failure and coping, 如果我们能赶走对失败的恐惧 学会面对它
putting ourselves on the line more, 学会冒险 从失败中学习经验
learning from failures looking at it as a,as a stepping stone 将失败看作是未来成功路上的垫脚石
that contributes to our success in the long term. 这些都不意味着我们会相应的
It doesn't need to take away from our drive 失去动力和雄心抱负
and ambition on the contrary. 克服对失败的恐惧 或担忧焦虑
And the key if we wanna overcome this fear of failure 或罪恶感 或种种不幸福的关键
or the worry/anxiety,or the guilt,or the slack of happiness, 通常 不一定总是 而是通常是关于理解
it's very often,not always,very often about understanding, 或更好的去理解这些品格的含义
or getting a better understanding of these characteristics. 举个例子
For example, 要理解 我想要摆脱对失败的恐惧感
understanding that I want to let go of my fear of failure, 不是一般的恐惧 而是消磨人意志的恐惧
the debilitating fear of failure,not just fear of failure 因为每个人都在某种程度上害怕失败
because every one is afraid of failure to some extent. 但是要摆脱这种消磨人意志的恐惧
But to let go of the debilitating fear of failure 同时保存我的动力和雄心
and yet maintain my drive/ambition. 就必须要理解两者是密不可分的
So more in nuance understanding that you need to go hand in hand. 又或者 你们知道
Or,I can't,you know, 我以前不会对人说不
I never used to be able to say no to people. 这么短小的一个词 简单的一个词
You know,such a short word,such an easy word, 有时候是那么难以说出口
so difficult at times to say. 为什么?因为我眼中的自己和我希望
Why? Because I see myself and now I want other people to see me 别人眼中的自己是有同情心的
as empathic as sensitive as under..as a nice guy. 善解人意的 是老好人 于是
And then I unpack the two. 我把两者拆开了 它们并不一定要
And it really doesn't have to hand in hand. 连在一起 我可以善解人意的说不
I can say no to people very sensitively 因为很多时候当我对别人说好
because very often when I say yes to others, 我其实同时在对自己说不
I'm saying no to myself,and in the long term, 从长远来看 也是在对亲密关系说不
very often to the relationship. 所以现在我更好更深入的了解了
So now I had a better more nuance understanding of 我什么时候能说不 什么时候不想说
when I can say no and when I don't want to say no 同时 我还能保留自己的善解人意
while maintaining my sensitivity and my empathy 和同情心 也不必在每次说不的时候
without experiencing the same levels of guilt 感到有种罪恶感
that I experienced before whenever I said no. 这里列出来的每种品格
And the same you can do for everyone of these, 都是可以被拆开的
of these characteristics. 大家可以想想有哪些品性
So think about what if you wanted to change for a very long time 是你很久以前就想改掉 却改不掉的
and weren't successful in. 对完美主义的追求?
Was it perfectionism? 还是严酷无情?
Was it,you know this very serious grimness? 还是你想变得更顽皮活泼?
And you wanted to be more playful? 也许你并不想摆脱这种个性
Well maybe you didn't want to get rid of it 因为害怕自己会失去严肃认真的品性
because you were afraid of losing you seriousness. 其实你根本不需要失去
And you don't need do. 把婴儿留下 把洗澡水倒掉
The baby can stay,the bath water can go 前提是我们能搞清楚
if we have a more nuance understanding of 我们到底想改变什么
what it is we want to change. 下周的小组讨论活动 你们要和助教
In section next week,you are going to do an exercise 一起做一个叫完成句子的练习
with your teaching fellows called sentence completion. 下面要说的正是你们在练习中要做的事
In that exercise,this is exactly what you are going to do. 你们要识别...
You're going to identify.. 这个练习是Nathaniel Branden设计的
It's,,,it's an exercise devised by Nathaniel Branden. 它将帮助你识别
You're going to do an exercise that will help you identify 自己分别想要摆脱和保留的品格
what you wanna get rid of and what you wanna keep. 很多时候 不管在显意识还是潜意识中
Very often,that,just that switch that you make in your mind, 都有一个你自己制作的开关
subconscious as well as conscious mind 可以引发洪水 打开通往新隧道的大门
can open the flood waters,the gates to a new channel, 大脑里新的通路 真正永久性的变化
new pathway in our brain,real lasting change. 我们现在要讨论三个截然不同
We're gonna discuss three distinct.. 却又相互连结的通向变化的途径
the interconnected pathways to change— 这就是我们之前提过的 心理学ABC理论
the ABCs of psychology which we have mentioned before. ABC理论 A代表情感 情绪
The ABCs,the A is the affect,the emotion. B代表行为 行动
The B is the behavior,the action. C代表认知 思维
And C is the cognition,the thought. 我们今天要做的是
And what we gonna do is 我们会分别讲这三个元素
we're going to talk about each one of the three. 在分别讲这三个元素的时候
And for each one we're going to talk about 我们会谈到渐进式变化和突发式变化
the gradual change approach and the acute change approach. 可以说 我们用两种方法解释三元素
So in a sense we're building a three by two. 情感 行为 认知 乘以渐进式和突发式
Affect,behavior,cognition times gradual and the acute. 一共有六种变化的方式 这六种方式
And we're going to talk about six different approaches to change. 彼此相通 把它们联系起来很重要
These six approaches to change are interconnected. 我们希望能三者兼得
It's important to connect them.And ideally we want all three. 为什么呢? 引用一句我们提过多次
Why? Quote it up,we used it a few times and we'll use it again, 以后也会再提的名言 Dryden和Poet说的
John Dryden,British poet, "我们养成习惯;习惯造就我们"
“we first make our habit and then our habits make us.” 为了能改变习惯 产生永久性的变化
In order to change habit,in order to bring about lasting change, 我们不仅需要一种稳定的变化模式
we need to have as much of a solid approach as much..um.. 也同样需要一种外部介入的力量
force in the intervention. 仅仅把注意力放在情感上是不够的
It's not just enough to focus on the emotions. 放在行动上也是不够的
It's not just enough to focus on action. 放在思维上也是不够的
It's not enough just to focus on our thinking. 我们要对三元素同时下功夫
We want to focus on the three. A B和C三元素
The A,the B and the C. 大家可以想想看
It's ..Think about it. 就好象 我们把习惯看成一股洪流
It's like a habit can be looked as a flood. 一股我们思维的洪流 这股洪流是
There's flood in our mind 由来自不同通路的神经元构成的
of certain neurons firing in certain neuron pathway. 我们现在要做的是对抗这股洪流
And what we want to do is to overcome this flood. 为了做到这点 我们需要足够大的外力
And to overcome this flood we need as much force as we can, 因此我们要尝试尽可能多的方法
therefore we want to use as many approaches as we can. 在我们讲A元素之前
Before we jump into the A, 我再问一个问题 我们想改变什么?
one more thing -- what do we want to change? 我们能改变什么?不能改变什么?
What can we change? And what can we not change? 以Lyubomirsky Diener等人为首的
So according to researchers led by the lights of 研究者宣称 快乐是由三部分构成的
Sonja Lyubomirsky,Ed Diener,happiness comprises… 在我们试图分析一个人的幸福感时
as we're to explain an individual's happiness, 我们需要研究三个因素
we need to look at the three factors. 第一个因素是遗传排列
The first factor is the genetic set range, 不是遗传点 而是排列
not genetic set point,it's a range. 我们都生来具备一些
We're all born with 特定的快乐和健康倾向性体质
certain predisposition toward happiness and well-being. 有些人生来就是
Some people are born more with.. 一张笑脸 嘴里含着"笑汤匙"
you know the smiley face with the smiley spoon in their mouth; 另一些人则不然
others less so. 我们都排列在这条钟形曲线上
And we're all somewhere on this, 有些人注定比其他人更幸运
you know bell curve,some people luckier than others. 我之前也提过几次 我就没那么走运
As I mentioned couple of times before,I wasn't born that lucky. 我一出生就在曲线上偏焦虑的那一端
I was born more on the anxious side of this curve not with the, 嘴里也没含着快乐的小汤匙
with the happy spoon in my mouth, 但我的天性令我有资格教这门课
which by the way I think helps me teach this class, 因为我通过努力和各种尝试
because I do these things,I apply these things, 改变了自己的人生
I make a difference in my life. 我可以谈个人的经验
You know,been there,done that,doing it. 因为我有过那样的经历
I can speak from personal experiences as you know. 现在有些人可能会说
Now some people may look at it and say, "我们还有遗传排列 真是太可怕了"
‘that's terrible that we have a genetic set range.' 对此 我想说 这不是什么好事
Well,my answer to that is,it's not terri.. 也不是坏事 这只是既定事实
it's not good.It's not bad.It is. 就好象万有引力 无所谓好坏
The law of gravity.It's not good it's not bad.It is. 想要支配天性 必先服从天性
And nature to be commanded must be obeyed. 我们要认识自己的天性
We need to look at our nature, 理解 并充分善用这些天性
understand it and then make the best of it. 我们健康中和快乐相关的指数差异
About 50 percent of our levels of well-being of the variance 有50%并不是由遗传所决定的
in explaining happiness can't be accounted for by genes, 当然遗传基因是有影响的
which explains some of the results, 比如 双胞胎研究的案例
or for example,the twin studies. 为什么有很多对双胞胎
Why there were such similarities among the twins 在长期分离的情况下
even if they were,or between the twins, 彼此之间仍有那么多相似之处
even if they were real depart. 因为遗传决定的 这作用无所谓好坏
Because genes matter.Not good,not bad.It is. 也不是百分百由它决定 感谢上帝
They matter 50 percent,not 100 percent,thank God, 只有差异中的50%
but 50 percent of the variance. 我们应该随时牢记 对于如何运用
The important thing to keep in mind is that 这些基因 我们是有很多的支配能力的
we have a lot of control what we do with these genes. 你可以说成功是...我只是随便举例
You know one could argue that success... 我并不知道确切的数据
and I'm just throwing out numbers.I don't know what it is exactly. 成功的篮球运动员
But successful basketball players 50%是由遗传基因决定的 比如
is determined 50 percent by genes in terms of how much fast 肌肉里有多少快肌纤维和慢肌纤维
twitch versus slow twitch they have in their muscles, 或者 能跳多高 协调性如何
or how high they can jump,how coordinated they are, 身高多少 这些都很重要
how tall they are.All these things matter. 这些都是由基因决定的
They go into the… And these are determined by genes. 但是 如果迈克尔乔丹从没练过篮球
However,if Michael Jordan hadn't worked on his basketball, 我应该能比他打的好
I would be a better player than he is. 如果他从没练过的话 而且我的确练过
If he didn't work on his basketball at all,and I did and do. 换句话说 在遗传作用的前提下
In other words also with genes, 不去努力争取幸福的人
people who don't work on their happiness 即便他们有最好的遗传基因 也不会比
even if they have the best of genes will not do 基因不如他们但努力争取的人快乐
as well as people with less happy genes who work on it. 所以说 后天努力至关重要
So work matters a great deal. 第二个对快乐差异指数
The second thing that matters that 有影响的因素
makes up the hundred percent of variance of happiness, 是外部环境
external circumstances. 当然了 外部环境很重要
Of course,extreme circumstances make a lot of difference, 我们生活在一个自由的国度
whether we're living in a free country versus oppression. 还是受人压迫 带来的结果是完全不同的
That makes a lot of difference. 但总的来说 外部环境只要不过于极端
However,in general,external circumstances beyond the extremes, 比如无家可归流浪街头 其实影响不大
beyond being homeless on the street,make very little difference, 在差异方面只有10%的作用 因此
in fact,about 10% of the total variance.So genetic genes 50%, 遗传作用50% 外部环境包括居住地
external circumstances such as place of residence, 包括收入 天气等等
such as income,such as weather. 另外这个不包括
And again not for people,for example, 有季节性情感异常的患者
who have seasonal affective disorder. 对于他们来说 有没有阳光太重要了
Then of course it matters whether we get sun or not. 我现在说的是大部分人 不包括有
I'm talking about,um,most people,not people with SAD. 季节性情感异常的人 因此除去极端案例
So out of these extremes,external circumstances make, 外部环境的作用不大 大概是10%
matter about 10%,not much. 第三点
The third thing, 剩下的40%是由意向活动决定
the rest of the 40% is accounted for by intentional activities. 意向活动包括我们的所作所为所想
What that means is what we do,how we act,what we think about, 我们对世界的诠释 和我们关注的焦点
how we interpret the world,what we focus on. 简而言之 就是这门课的内容
In essence,what 1504 is about. 包括我们从第一节课开始讨论的内容
What we have discussed since the first class, 以及下半学期我们将要讨论的内容
what we're gonna discuss even more in the second half of the semester. 这些意向活动 我们关注的焦点
These intentional activities, 其实就是我们的ABC
our focus,these are essentially our ABCs. 这也是产生有意义的变化的根源
This is what real meaningful change comes. 是我们将要关注的重点
And this is where we are gonna focus. 如果我们能改变遗传基因 当然很好
Would be nice if we could do something with our genes. 是很好 但是不可能
Would be nice.Cannot.Would be nice 如果我们能更好的控制外部环境
if we had more control of our external circumstances. 当然很好 但是即便是我们能控制
But even if we did and many people do. 结果也不会被改变 虽然在场的
Many people sitting in this room or watching at home, 或是在家看视频的人中 有很多的确
do have more control doesn't make that much of the difference. 能更好的控制外部环境
What makes the most difference 能改变结果的 能被我们所掌控的
that we have control over are the internal activities, 是内部活动 是我们对世界的诠释
our interpretation of the world and our action. 和我们的行动 好 现在我们就开始讲
So let's jump into it. 这部分的内容 A 情感 情绪 是一种连接
The A,affect,emotion,the heart, it's a connection between, 更多的是从逻辑上 语言上
and it's a more logical connection, 将情感 动力 动作连接起来
linguistic connection between emotion,motivation,motion. 情感 感动 移动 没有情感
E-motion to move away.Without emotion we wouldn't move. 我们将寸步难行 你们在书中读到了
You read about it in the book. 或者之后会读到 关于Elliott的故事
Or you will read about it in the book about Elliott, Damásio做了关于他研究
the person who Damásio research Elliott失去了情感功能
who just lost his emotional faculty 并随之丧失了行动做事的所有动力
and with it lost all motivation to act or do anything 尽管他还有认知能力
even though his cognition was in place. 我们要行动就必须要情感
We need emotion in order to move. 现在我要从两个方面谈情感
So I wanna talk about,again,two aspects within emotion. 首先 是渐进式变化 之后 是突发式变化
The first,gradual change.The Second,more acute change. 渐进式变化是一种专注冥想
The gradual change is mindful meditation. 专注冥想可以带来安宁沉静
Mindful meditation is arguably the most powerful intervention 被认为是最有效的疗法
for bringing about calm and equanimity. 有很多与其相关的研究
A lot of research on it. 我们之后会用一周的时间讲专注冥想
We're gonna spend a whole week talking about it. 今天我只想做一个简单的介绍
Today what I wanna do is just to introduce it,the basic, 讲一下专注力的螺旋曲线
the foundation of the spiral of mindfulness. 从许多方面来说Jon Kabatt-Zin
Jon Kabatt-Zin who in many ways, 在这个学科领域做了很多重要的研究
is responsible for bringing serious research into this realm. 他和另外一些科学家 包括
He along with people like Tara Bennett-Goleman, Tara Bennett-Goleman和哈佛医学院的
people like Herbert Benson from the medical school here, Herbert Benson 一起在这个被认为
brought serious research to this 很神秘的学科领域里做了很多重要研究
what was considered a mystical field. "对专注力的培养可以引领我们发现
“Cultivating mindfulness can lead to the discovery 身心纾缓 自身宁静和洞察力
of deep realms of relaxation, 的最高深的境界
calmness and insight within yourself. 通向这个境界的路径就在
The path to it in any moment lies no farther than your own body 你的体内 脑中 和你自己的呼吸里"
and mind and your own breathing." 这就是专注力的奇妙之处
This is the amazing thing about mindfulness. 当我们讲到这些研究的时候 你们会看到
The result that you'll see that I'll talk about 那些研究结果是多么令人难以置信
when we talk about research,quite literally mind-boggling. 它们仅仅通过专注于呼吸
I mean they change the way our mind works, 和身体的某个部位 通过亲临现场
transform our brain just by focusing on the breath, 改变了我们的思维方式 改造了我们的大脑
by focusing on parts of our body,by being present. "所有人都有专注的能力
"All of us have the capacity to be mindful. 关键在于开发我们在此时此刻
All it involves is cultivating our ability to pay attention 全神贯注的能力"
in the present moment." 让我们花一两分钟体验一下这种感觉
Let's experience it just for a minute or two. 下面我想请大家做一个练习
So here is what I'd like you to do once again 还是那句话 如果你愿意做就做
if you feel comfortable with it. 请大家在椅子上坐好 将后背
So sit back,on your,on your chair with your back against, 靠在椅背上
against the,the back rest. 尽量坐舒服了
Make yourself as comfortable as you can. 两脚放松 平放在地上
Plant both feet on the ground comfortably. 如果你愿意 如果你愿意的话
And if you feel comfortable,if you feel comfortable, 闭上双眼
just close your eyes. 现在把注意力放在你的呼吸上
And move your attention to your breathing. 深吸一口气 吸至丹田
Take a deep breath in,into your belly. 慢慢的 静静的 轻轻的呼气
Slow,quiet,gentle exhalation. 再次慢慢的深吸一口气 直至丹田
Deep slow inhalation,all the way into your belly. 慢慢的轻轻的静静的长长的呼出来
Slow,gentle,quiet,long exhalation. 如果你的思绪飘走了 把它放回到呼吸上来
If you mind wanders,just return to your breathing. 现在想象你在脑中观察自己的身体
Now in your mind's eye,just scan your body,your forehand, 你的前额 眼睛 鼻子 嘴 脖子 胸膛
your eyes,your nose,mouth,your neck,your chest, 你的后背 腰 双腿 一直向下
your upper back,lower back,your legs, 直到你的双脚 上下观察你的身体
all the way down to your feet.Just scan your body 同时继续深深的慢慢的轻轻的呼吸
while continuing to breathe deeply,slowly and gently. 在你打量自己的时候 寻找身上的
And through your scan,find a part of your body 一个部位 比其它部位更紧绷
that is a little bit more tense than the others. 可能是你的下巴 脖子
It could be your jaws.It could be your neck. 可能是你的肩膀 你的胃部
It could be your shoulders,your stomach. 你感到这个部位有些不适
You're feeling a little bit of disease. 可能是你的腿 膝盖 双脚
Could be your legs,your knees,your feet. 找到这个部位
Identify that one part of the body 它比其它部位更紧绷
that is a little bit more tense than the others 把注意力放在这个部位上 继续呼吸
and focus on it and continue to breath. 深吸一口气 将气引至那个部位
Take a deep breath into that part of your body. 然后在你放松呼气的时候
And when you let go and you exhale, 把那种紧绷感也呼出去 放松
also let go of the tension that's there.Just relax it. 多深吸几口气至该部位
And take a few deep breath into that part of your body 然后放松 呼气
and relax it and let go. 重新将注意力放在呼吸上 深吸一口气
Return your focus to your breathing.Take a deep breath in. 慢慢的轻轻的静静的长长的呼气
Slow gentle quiet long exhale,relaxing with the exhalation. 同时放松 深吸一口气 慢慢的轻轻的长吐出来
Deep breathing in,deep slow gentle long exhaling. 在下次呼气之后
At the end of the next exhalation, 轻轻的慢慢的静静的睁开你的双眼
gently slowly quietly open your eyes. 另外 如果坐在你旁边的人睡着了
Once again if the person next to you is asleep, 请轻轻的把他们叫醒
just gently wake them up. Tara Bennett Goleman
Tara Bennett Goleman.Tara Bennett Goleman. 如果有人还在说梦话 请把他们叫醒
If someone is speaking in their sleep,please wake them up. Tara Bennett Goleman 在她的
Tara Bennett Goleman,in her book,‘Emotional Alchemy'. '情感炼金术'一书中写到"专注力
“Mindfulness means seeing things as they are, 意味着看到事物的本来面目 而不是
without trying to change them. 试图去改变它们 关键是要消解我们
The point is to dissolve our reactions to disturbing emotions, 对负面情绪的反应 而不是抵制情绪
being careful not to reject the emotion itself." 这就是所谓做人的权利
This is what permission to be human is all about. 随着情绪 感受情绪
Along the emotion,experiencing the emotion, 在这个过程中呼吸吐纳
and just breathing through it. 虽然不一定总会这样 但是很多时候
And very often when we do that,not always, 如此一来 情绪就消解了
but very often,it dissolves. 随着这种情绪的消解
And with it,with the emotional dissolution of the emotion comes 令人痛苦的情感也得到了心理解离
also the psychological dissolution of this painful emotion. 还是那句话 春假回来以后
Again we'll talk much,much more 我们会谈到很多关于这个疗法的内容
about this very important intervention after spring break. 这就是渐进式的变化
This is about gradual change. 在我们待会说到研究报告的时候
What we'll see when we talk about research 大家会发现 即便这种渐进式变化
is that even if this is gradual change, 只是短短的8周的日常冥想
within as little as 8 weeks of regular meditation, 我们的大脑也会开始改变形状
our brain actually starts to change its form to transform. 我们的免疫系统得到增强
Our immune system strengthens 即便只有短短8周的日常冥想
after as little as 8 weeks of regular daily meditation. 而且不一定是一天5小时的冥想
It doesn't have to be 5 hours a day. 有时候就是一天30或20分钟
As little as 30 minutes or 20 minutes a day 已经足以带来变化
can already affect change. 这个过程是循序渐渐的 缓慢的
This is gradual, slow, 希望大家可以用一生去实践
hopefully something that you'll take up as a life time, 这是一个终身疗法
life long intervention. 下面的例子是从突发变化的角度
Here is an example of more acute change 分析我们的情感 所以
when it comes to our emotion. 当我想填满这个3乘2模型的方盒子
So when I thought about filling in this box in the 3 by 2 model, 我应该怎么去找情感突发式变化的
how do I find the acute emotional change? 案例呢?我立刻想到了一个临床心理学
Immediately my mind went to research in clinical psychology, 研究 是关于创伤后应激障碍的
specifically to post-traumatic stress disorder. 有成千上万的文章
Post-traumatic stress disorder,something 都是关于创伤后应激障碍
that has been studied thousands and thousands of articles; 我们系也做了相关的研究
research done in our department too. 当我想到它的时候 我对自己说
And when I look at it,I said, '好吧 这是一个突发式变化的案例
'well,this is an example of an acute change,a very acute change 非常突然的变化' 因为实际上
Because what happens when we have a trauma, 当我们有创伤之后 很多人的一生
many people after the trauma are changed forever, 因为创伤后应激障碍而从此改变了
for the rest of their lives if they have PTSD. 它实际上改变了
It actually has changed, 我们大脑中的化学物质
changes the chemical that flow through our brain. 它改变了我们大脑的结构
It changes the structure of our brain, 建立了新的神经通路 破坏了很多
creates new neural pathways,kills a lot of old neural pathways 以前的神经通路 全都是因为
as a result of a single experience. 一个单独的经历 就像是大锤一挥
It's a sledge hammer. 很不幸的是这是一个非常常见的疾病
It is very widespread unfortunately. 我上次已经说过了
I mentioned it last time. 30%的越南战争老兵有创伤后应激障碍
30 percent of Vietnam vets have PTSD.30 percent. 30%之多 80%的第一次海湾战争老兵
80 percent from the first Gulf War have PTSD. 有创伤后应激障碍 我之前也提过
As I mention 我们现在还没有关于第二次海湾战争
we don't have the exact data yet from the second Gulf War. 的确切数据 但是相信人数只会更多不会更少
But the numbers are likely gonna be higher than that. 在911之前 在纽约110号大街以南
After 911 or before 911 right,there were 20,000 individuals 有两万人有创伤后应激障碍
with PTSD south of 110th street New York. 911刚刚过去之后
Right after 911, 有6万人有创伤后应激障碍
60,000 individuals with post-traumatic stress disorder. 这对人是有影响的
Now this has consequences. 影响了我们的大脑功能
Again it has consequences on the way our brain functions, 这种影响很多时候是终其一生的
very often,not always,but very often for the rest of our lives. 这就是突发式的变化
So this is an acute change. 伴随着创伤而来
It comes immediately one trauma, 比如911 或者在战争中的恐怖经历
911 or seeing something terrible in war. 从而影响了余生
And then that often has an effect for the rest of, 影响了整个人生
for the per..,for the entire life. 这是一种休克疗法 消极的休克疗法
It's a shock treatment,a negative shock treatment. 当我想到创伤后应激障碍的时候
Now when look at PTSD when I thought about it,I asked, 我问'OK 这和积极心理学有啥关系'
‘OK,so what is positive psychology have to do with this.' 这属于临床心理学的范畴 就是所谓的
I mean this is clinical psychology. 消极心理学 但是其实有很大关系
This is ”negative psychology”.Well the answer is a lot. 首先 从1998年起开始有很多相关研究
First of all,a lot of research started only 1998, 仅仅是在10年以前 就是在
again,10 years ago, 人们开始关注幸福心理学的时候
the time when positive psychology came in to the scene, 开始有很多关于创伤后成长的研究
research on post-traumatic growth. 研究发现 实际上更多的人在经历创伤后
And what was found was that in fact more people experience growth 得到的是成长 而不是应激障碍
as a result of a trauma than post,than PTSD. 然而 没人提起创伤后成长
However,we don't talk about post-traumatic growth. 每个人都知道创伤后应激障碍
Everyone knows about PTSD. 但是再次说明了 这又是一个关于
But again this is another example of where the light is not shed 人们不愿去关注正面事物的案例
on something that is actually working well. 如何正面呢 就是大部分人
And what is working here? 其实是非常有能力去承受创伤的
Most people are extremely resilient able to withstand trauma. 这是一个非常振奋人心的事实
And that is a very empowering understanding to have. 如果人们知道这是可能实现的
We'll become more of a self-fulfilling prophecy, 是常见的 如果人们不会对经历
and more people will experience post-traumatic growth 创伤后成长感到愧疚 那么
if they only knew that it was a possibility that it was common. 我们就会有更多自我实现的预言
If they didn't feel guilty about experiencing growth 也会有更多人拥有创伤后成长的经历
as a result of trauma. 在我经历了越南战争之后 有了
How can I grow after what I saw,what I visioned, 那样的所见所闻 我怎么会成长呢?
what I experienced in Vietnam.It's wrong. 这是不对的 再说一次 世事总有不幸
Again things don't happen for the best. 但是有些人能尽量从世事中受益
But some people are able to make the best of things that happen. 当人们开始关注事情带来的益处时
Post-traumatic growth, 就会产生创伤后成长
it happens when people begin to focus on the benefit. 那么 创伤能带来什么好处呢
So what is the benefit of this trauma. 发生这种事终归是不幸的
It didn't happen for the best. 比如 我从患癌症这件事上学到什么呢
But what if I learn from my cancer for example. 和家人的关系更亲密 更珍惜生命
Well,to be closer to my family,to appreciate the breath, 更珍惜花草自然 更享受
to appreciate the flowers,to enjoy my friends more. 和朋友在一起的时光 这件事
Didn't happen for the best. 的确不幸 但是我却尽量从中受益
But I'm gonna make…I did make the best of it. 这就是价值发现
Benefit finding. 再或者 很多人能在写日记的时候
Or many people are able to find meaning in it through journaling. 得到启示 我们下节课会讲到记日记
We'll talk about journaling next class. 再或者 有些人能够分享创伤经历
Or people who are able to share their experience of the trauma. 还记得二战大屠杀的幸存者
Remember the difference 和越战老兵之间的区别吗?
between holocaust survivors and Vietnam vets. 对于不幸的经历 大屠杀幸存者拿来
Holocaust survivors shared,talked about it,wrote about it. 分享讨论 把它写出来 越战老兵则
Vietnam vets ruminated about it. 只是反复去想 回到我们之前说的
Going back to the Lyubomirsky study. Lyubomirsky的研究 当你只想不说
And when you just ruminate without sharing, 不把心里话倒出来
without,without taking it out. 它会积压在心里 更容易形成
It becomes stronger and it's more likely to become PTSD. 创伤后应激障碍 并不一定要这样
But it doesn't always do that. 了解创伤后成长的好处
And it's important to understand 是至关重要的
the magnetism of post-traumatic growth. 那么现在我向大家提一个问题
So here is the question that I have. 既然这是讲幸福心理学的课程
This is a positive psychology course. 大家应该还记得幸福心理学
Remember what positive psychology is; 关注的是有用的有效的事物
is that it focuses on what works. 因此在备课的时候
So the question that I asked myself 我问了自己一个问题
as I was preparing for this course was this. 有没有一个正面的和创伤相对应的元素
Is there a positive equivalent to trauma, 它的效果强大 但同时是正面积极的
something that is so powerful yet positive 并最终能像猛击大锤一样
that will change the way our brain functions 瞬间改变我们大脑的运作模式?
in an instance like a sledgehammer? 有这样的元素吗?换句话说 我想问
Is there something like that? Or in other words,what I asked is, 会不会有一种正面的经历可以创造
can a single positive experience create a positive channel 一条正向的通道 引领我们得到更多
that will lead to a permanent increase in wellbeing, 健康 宁静 和积极的回忆 也就是说
calm and positive memories. 和创伤后应激障碍正相反的反应
In other words,the opposite of PTSD. 再重复一次:勤问必有所得 求索始于追问
And again asking you shall receive.A question begins a quest. 当我问出这个问题 在我眼前立马开启了
And as soon as I ask this question,it open up channels that 一条我前所未见的通道
I didn't see before that were literally right in front of my eyes 这就是我多年来一直钻研其中的
And this was the work that 我心目中的最伟大的知识分子
I've studied for many years of one of my intellectual heroes, 马斯洛提出的高峰体验理论
Abraham Maslow who talks about the peak experience. 我现在要说的这个理论 更多的
Now,what I'm gonna talk about now 是一种假设性理论 而未经过实证的
is more hypothesis than well grounded research. 我希望你们当中有人能
It's a hypothesis that I hope some of you will, 将这个假设性理论当成论文课题研究
will research either here as your senior thesis, 或者以后 能鼓励别人研究这个理论
or in the future,or will encourage people to research these ideas. 我在这个课上讲的理论
Everything that I share in this class 都是经过大量研究证实的
is based on very rigorous research. 只有这个领域是假设性的
This is one area where it's a hypothesis. 但还是请大家听一下 我讲完后
But bear with me and see what you think of it, 请好好想想这个假设性理论
of this hypothesis when I finish explaining it. 因为虽然是有一些相关研究
Because there is some,some research on it,not enough, 但是不多 不足以证实其真实性
you know for a stand of approval yet. 但还是请大家想想看它有没有道理
But think about it.Does it make sense. 那么 让我们先了解一下什么
So let's see what is a peak experience. 是高峰体验 马斯洛的定义是
Maslow's definition of a peak experience: '高峰体验是人类生命中最精彩
‘it's a generalization for the best moments of the human being, 最幸福的时刻 最令人心醉神迷
for the happiest moments of life, 欣喜若狂 极乐体验的高度浓缩
for experiences of ecstasy,rapture,bliss,of the greatest joy. 我发现 这种体验一般来自于
I found that such experiences came from profound aesthetic 深度美学体验 包括创作时的喜悦
experiences such as creative ecstasies,moments of mature love, 爱情 完美的性体验 为人父母
perfect sexual experiences,parental love, 自然分娩 以及其他的人生体验'
experiences of natural childbirth,and many others.' 每个人 或是绝大多数人都有这种体验
Everyone or most of people have the experience, 这种高峰体验
peak experiences again 不管是你的男女朋友在一起的时候
whether it was with your girlfriend boyfriend, 还是在读一本好书的时候
whether it was reading a book, 还是在听你最爱的音乐的时候
whether it was listening to your favourate piece of music. 这种体验就好象 嗯
Just being one with the experience,it was..um.. 许多神学家会说宗教体验
Many of theologians talk about as the religious experience, 信仰体验 比如当你走在花园里
as spiritual experience where you just walked through the yard 突然你看到了约翰哈佛(铜像) 也许
and suddenly felt one -it was a John Harvard. 不是他 总之是一种集之大成的体验
Maybe not.But experience just one with everything. 这种体验就是人们所说的禅
This is the experience they talk about in Zen, 与现在连接起来
being connected to the present, 感觉是如此美好如此完整
feeling so good so complete like you don't need anything else. 好像你已经完满了 拥有了一切
Everything is right here. 我和家人在一起的时候就有这样的体验
Now I know I experience with my family at times. 昨天晚上我和亲朋好友一起吃晚餐
You know last night having dinner with my family and friends. 你们知道吗 当我们围坐在一起
You know we were sitting around,I just felt this is it. 我感觉 这就是了 夫复何求
You know what else do I need. 感觉如此完整 享受当下 这就是
Just being so complete,so in the moment.A peak experience. 高峰体验 但是这种体验一般不会长久
Now these peak experiences usually don't last for very long. 是会消逝的 它只存在于高峰一刻
They come and they go.It's a peak. 但是 它是有震荡效应的
However,they can and often do have repercussions. 现在 也许你们已经知道我
Now,maybe you can see now where I'm going with this. 接下来要说什么了 当我想到
So do I,what I thought about 高峰体验的时候 我发现它也许
when I thought about peak experiences was maybe, 只是也许 和创伤带来的影响是同等的
just maybe this is the positive equivalent to the trauma. 也许它是一种喜悦式的休克疗法
Maybe it's a shock treatment of ecstasy 能够带来超越体验本身的效果
that can have effect beyond just the experience itself, 就好像创伤后应激障碍一样
just like PTSD has effect beyond the experience itself. 时至今日 仍有人活在911的回忆中
There're people today who are living and reliving 911, 这些回忆仍然影响着他们的大脑
still affecting them,still affecting their brain, 创造着新的通道 新的神经通路
creating new channels, 01年9月11日之前并不存在的通路
new pathways that didn't exist before 9/11/01. 所以说 高峰体验是一种喜悦式的
So is peak experience shock treatment of ecstasy? 休克疗法吗?如果它反面对应的是创伤
If peak experience is the positive equivalent of a trauma, 那么和创伤后应激障碍对应的就是
then the equivalent of a post-traumatic stress disorder 我管它叫高峰体验后通路
is what I called post peak experience order. 我知道 是土了一点 但是我觉得
I know,cheesy.But I think there is something behind it. 是有道理的 相关的研究其实很少
Some research on it.Some,very,um,very little. 但是我认为这理论是有效的
But I think it actually works. 其中一个研究
So one of the research studies 是由马斯洛的一个学生做的
that was done it was by one of Maslow's student. 她研究是 生过小孩的妇女
She studied,um women after child birth. 她发现在一些时候
And what she found was that sometimes, 这种情况并不是大多数 妇女有时候
not always,in fact not most times, 在生小孩的时候会有高峰体验
but often these women experience peak experience. 这种体验改变了她们的人生
And it changed their lives. 体验带来的后果是 她们变得
As a result of it,they became more confident, 更自信 更宽容 更友善 更快乐
more generous and benevolent,and happier, 一切都源于一个单独的人生体验
just as a result of a single experience, 一种喜悦休克疗法 这种体验
a shock treatment of ecstasy,something which was, 发生在她们身上 对她们意义非凡
which happened to them,which meant so much to them. 这个实验是在50年代初期做的
Now they did this research in the early 50s or late, 还是晚期 不 是50年代初
no,early 50s. 现在 这种情况对于男士也更常见了
Today it may also happen more often with men because 因为现在的男士比起以前更可能
men today are more likely to be present when the child is born. 出现在孩子出生的现场 当我儿子
I know that in my…when David was born, David出生的时候 我当场喜极而泣
you know I burst out crying. 对于我来说 那是一种非常强烈的
It was a very powerful experience when it happened; 体验 绝对是一种高峰体验
certainly peak experience for me. 下面是马斯洛对于高峰体验的阐释
Here's what Maslow says about peak experiences.And 他没明白说就是高峰体验后通路
again not talking specifically about post peak experience order, 但是也算是一种暗示
but alluding to it. '高峰体验通常会带来一些后果
‘Peak experiences often have consequences... 效果等同于心理疗法
They can do the same there as psychotherapy, 前提是体验者目标明确
if one keeps his goals right, 有自知之明
and if one knows just what he is about, 并且清楚自己的方向
and if one is conscious of what he is going toward. 一方面 我们当然可以只讨论
We can certainly talk,on the one hand, 怎么分解症状 怎么老调重弹
of the breaking up of symptoms,like the breaking up of cliches, 分解焦虑 或其它问题 另一方面 我们
of anxieties,or the like; or on the other hand, 还可以去探讨怎么培养自主性和勇气
we can talk about the development of spontaneity,and of courage, 怎么培养奥运选手 幽默感 诸如此类
and of Olympian or Godlike humor and suchness, 感知认识 身体感知 和其它.'
sensory awareness,body awareness,and the like.' 所以他的意思是说 如果我们做一些
So what he's saying here is that these effects 事后跟进的工作 那么会产生一些具有
can have consequences beyond just the peak experience 影响力的效果 而不仅仅是高峰体验
if we do certain thing such as follow up on it. W. James在'宗教经验多样化'一书中
William James in The Varieties of Religious Experiences talks about 谈到改变人生的时刻 以及它们
such moments that change lives and how they change lives. 怎样改变人生 高峰体验可以创造
Peak experience can quite literally lead to a new brain order. 新的大脑结构 虽然相关问题
And again the jury still out on the research. 仍待研究 但已有越来越多的迹象
But there's more and more suggestions. 显示这是有迹可寻的
And we'll talk about it next time as well 如果我们知道该怎么做 高峰体验
that show that there is something there, 可以产生和创伤相对应的正面效应
that it can be the positive equivalent of a trauma 下次我们会详细讲这部分的内容
if we know what we do,to do with it. 现在我们要说一个很关键的问题
And here's the important issue. 首先 我们会有高峰体验吗
The question is first 我们能有更多的高峰体验吗?
do we experience peak experiences and experience more of them? 其次 在我们经历了高峰体验之后
And second,after we experience peak experience, 我们怎样做才能获得高峰体验后通路?
how can we make it more likely that we enjoy PPEO? 因为正如同 并不是所有人都会经历
Because just like not everyone after a trauma experience PTSD. 创伤后应激障碍 事实上大部分人没有
In fact,the majority don't.Just in the same way, 同样 大部分人在高峰体验过后
most people don't experience PPEO after a peak experience. 并未获得高峰体验后通路
How do you increase the likelihood, 怎样增加首先是高峰体验发生的概率
first of increasing peak experience and second of increasing 其次是高峰体验后通路的概率
the likelihood of post peak experience order. 因此 怎么增强高峰体验
So to enhance peak experience, 这堂课基本上讲的就是关于这个内容
just very briefly because essentially the course is about that. 现在我要讲几个概念 当中有
So I'm gonna just throw out a few ideas that 我们以前讲过的 也有之后要讲的
we've talked about and some that we'll talk about. 首先 全然为人 接纳 接纳你的情绪
First,permission to be human.Acceptance,accepting emotions. 为什么呢 因为如果我们不能接受
Why? Because if we don't accept painful emotions, 痛苦的情绪 如果我们不能让自己
if we don't give ourselves permission to be human, 全然为人的 我们就阻断了自己的
we're blocking our emotional pathways. 情绪通路 而所有积极和痛苦的
And positive emotions and painful emotions 情绪都流动于同一条情绪通路
often flow through the same emotional pathways. 当我们限制其一的时候 我们也限制了
And when we're limiting one,we're very often limiting the other. 另一方 因此如果我们开启通路
So if we open up the pathways, 接受自己全然为人
give ourselves the permission to be human 无论是出于悲伤或极度的喜悦
and give ourselves the permission to cry 允许自己哭泣
when we're sad or ecstatic. 我们就能开启通路
That very often opens up, 让自己更容易感受到积极的情绪
makes it more likely that we experience positive emotions as well 看似矛盾
Paradoxical, 但这就是全然为人的隽语
but this is the paradox of the permission to be human. 当我们允许自己感受痛苦的情绪
When we give ourselves permission to experience painful emotions, 我们就会更容易感受到积极的情绪
we're more likely to experience the positive emotions. 还有就是 专注力 感受当下
Mindfulness,being present. 举个例子 很多时候 当我们听音乐
Lot of time when we are listening to music, 就是全神贯注的听音乐的时候
for example,really listening to music, 不是放着背景音乐 在一边发短信
not just having it as background while text messaging, 做功课 和朋友聊天
doing homework,and talking to our friends. 而是全神贯注的听我们喜欢的音乐
But when we really listen to music that we love, 很多时候 我们会有临场的高峰体验
very often we have a peak experience being present. 根据马斯洛的理论
According to Maslow's research, 这两个条件能令我们最可能
these are two of the most likely, 获得高峰体验
most likely areas where we can experience the peak experience. 顺便说一下 我相信这也是一种天赋
And by the way this I believe is,is innate. 我从我一岁的女儿Sherio身上看到了
You know even I see with,with Sherio,my one year old daughter. 这种天赋 每当音乐响起 我们随之起舞
You know when there is music,when we dance,she laughs. 她就会开心的笑 这不是我们教她的
This is not something we taught her. 人对音乐和舞蹈的爱好是天生的
We were born with,with this inclination for music and dance. 我们需要花时间去发掘这种天赋
We need to take time for that.Having a meaningful goal. 制定一个有意义的目标
When we're on purpose, 当我们有所追求 做自己爱做的事情
when we're doing things that we love to do,when what we are, 做自己觉得有意义 重要的事情
we are doing is meaningful and significant to us, 我们更容易获得高峰体验
we're much more likely to experience peak experiences. 最后 我们当今文化中最严重的问题
Finally one of the greatest barriers in our culture,time. 时间 当我们匆匆忙忙赶时间 倍感
It's very difficult to experience peak experiences 倍感压力和焦虑的时候 我们很难
when we're on the rush,when we're stressed and anxious. 获得高峰体验 这些都是高峰体验杀手
These are peak experience killers. 无论是在做爱的时候
Whether it's when making love, 还是听音乐的时候
whether it's when listening to music, 或者和朋友一起的时候
whether it's with when spending time with friends, 当所有这些发生情况的时候 都一样
or all of the above together. 那么一旦有了高峰体验 我们应该如何
How do we enhance the likelihood of PPEO once 增加获得高峰体验后通路的可能性呢
we have experienced peak experience? 首先 我们可以重演画面
First thing,replaying an image. 还记得吗 我们说过大脑
Remember the mind 并不能分辨真实和想象
doesn't know the difference within the imaginary and the real. 它可以将发生过的画面多次重播
It plays it over and over again. 当我们多次重播该画面的时候
And when we play it over and over again, 神经通路得到了巩固
the neural pathway is reinforced. 这条通路由大锤凿开
The sledge hammer begins the neural pathway. 之后我们通过画面重演来巩固它
And then we reinforce it through replaying through imagination. 我们还可以把经历写出来
Writing about it. 下周我们的心得报告作业
This is gonna be a response paper next week. 就是要大家写自己的高峰体验
Writing about a peak experience. 当我们记录这种体验的时候 只是描述
When we journal about it,describing it,not analyzing it. 而不是分析 记住Lyubomirsky说的两者差别
Remember the difference with Lyubomirsky.Positive emotions, 正面的情绪和经历不适于被分析
positive experiences is not as helpful to analyze. 所以 只要去描述这种经历
So just to describe it,once again reinforce the neural pathways. 再次巩固神经通路
We relive it.We replay it. 花时间去重演 花时间去重播它
Once again taking time,taking time. 最后 就是要采取行动
And finally taking action 通过采取行动 我们能巩固最初的体验
which is how we can reinforce the initial experience of the, 即高峰体验 巩固神经通路
um,the peak experience,reinforce the neural pathways. 所以说 当我有了高峰体验之后
So I had it inside, 我心里会感到柳暗花明 豁然开朗
an Ah-ha moment as a result of this peak experience. 现在我得付诸行动
Now I'm gonna do something about it and act, 这也是我今天要讲的第二部分-行为
which leads me to the second point,which is B-behavior. 20年来 自从我还未满20岁的时候开始
I've been teaching and participating in workshops 我就一直在教和参与各类关于
and seminars and classes on self improvement psychology, 自我提升心理学 幸福心理学
positive psychology and clinical psychology for almost 20 yeas 临床心理学的课程 讲习班和研讨会
since I was,since I was,well before I was 20. 我发现 不管是在别人的讲习班上
And what I noticed in other people's workshops, 还是自己的讲习班上
or in my workshops in seminars in classes is the following. 如果课程效果好的话 大部分人
Most people,if the workshop or the class is good, 在周末或期末离开的时候
exit the classroom,or the weekend or the semester. 如果之前他们在这里
If they were here before, 之后他们都会经历一个高峰
they usually experience a relative high after. 但是一般人会分为两组
But there're two groups of people. 两组人都会经历高峰
Both groups experience a relative high. 第一组人 很不幸这组人占大多数
The first group which unfortunately are the majority. 在经历了高峰之后 最后回到了原来的
After that high,go back to their base level of happiness, 幸福基点 我们对此并不陌生
something we're familiar with. 第二组人 不是多数
The second group,not majority, 是一小部分人 在经历了高峰之后
but not a small minority experience that high after. 这种高峰并不持久
That high doesn't last forever. 但是当他们落下来的时候
However,they go back,but when they go back, 他们的幸福基点比之前高出来
their base level of wellbeing is higher than it was before. 之后尽管也有起起伏伏
And they continue to have their vicissitudes, 但是都是在这个新基点上下起伏
but this time along a higher base level of happiness than before. 不用说 我当然很想
Now needless to say, 知道为什么有些人是这样
I want to understand why people experience this, 另一些人是那样
some people and other people experience this, 因为我想让参加我课程的人能拥有
because I want people who take my class 持久性的变化 而不是昙花一现的改变
to enjoy lasting change as opposed to temporary. 只是短暂的感觉良好是不够的
Nice,feels good,not enough. 这既对不住他们为课程所付出的努力
It doesn't justify the effort that they put into the workshop. 也对不住我为课程付出的努力
And it doesn't justify the effort that I put into my work. 所以我很想弄明白两者之间的差异
So I want to understand the difference between the two. 下面就是我发现的这两组人
And here is the single most important difference 之间存在的最重要的差异
that I identified between these two groups. 第二组人所具备的显著特点
Group 2,the distinguishing characteristic 就是在讲习班或课程或研讨会结束之后
was that after the workshop or class or seminar, 会立刻做出行为上的改变
not at the end of the semester if it was a semester long class, 如果是一个学期的课程 他们不是在学期
after each class or after many of the classes 结束后才做 而是每节课或几节课之后就做
introducing immediate behavioral change. 他们不会边等边说'好吧 等课程全结束了
They don't wait and say ‘ok,after this course is over, 我到时再重新评估人生 看自己能做什么'
I'll reevaluate my life and see how I do. 而是立刻采取实质上的行为改变
Immediately introducing real behavioral change, 比如 做一些上课讲过的练习
doing exercises that we talked about in class, 学着承担以前不敢承担的风险
taking risks that they haven't before 总之 立刻改变 而不是等着
but introducing change immediately,not waiting. 而这些立刻改变的人并不会因此
And those introduce change immediately 而拥有永久的高峰体验
don't have a high or peak experience constantly. 但是他们的幸福基点会提高
But their base level of happiness goes up 而不像其他人 因为没有改变
as opposed to going down returning to 而回落到和以前一样的水平
where it was before when there was no behavioral change. 所以 现在每当我有长达数天的
And now I start every workshop and seminar 讲习班和研讨会 我都会在一开始就
when I have a few day workshop 给大家介绍这种变化的模式
or seminar introducing this model of change. 我们从很多心理学研究中学到
What do we know from a lot of research in psychology 态度和行为是密切相关的
is there is a relationship between attitudes and behaviors. 这一点我们以前讲过 提到过
And we talked about it,we illuded into it already in the past. 所以说我们都有自己的态度 无论是关于
So we all have attitudes whether it's attitudes about psychology, 心理学的态度 还是关于其他人
whether it's attitudes about another person, 或是关于自己的态度
whether it's attitude about myself. 这些态度影响着我们的行为
And these attitudes affect our behavior. 比如说 如果我对心理学 或是幸福心理学
So for example,if I have a positive attitude towards psychology 抱有好感 相对于对心理学
or positive psychology,I'm more likely to take 1504 than 完全没好感的状况
if my attitude towards psychology 我更有可能去选1504这门课
and positive psychology is negative. 或者说 如果我对一种想法
Or if I have a good attitude toward a certain belief 或对一个人有好感
about a certain person, 比起对其毫无好感的情况
I'm much more likely to want befriend this person 我更有可能和他成为朋友
if I like him than if I don't. 所以说 态度影响行为
So attitudes affect behavior. 这是显而易见的 很容易理解
That's very clear,easy to understand. 但是一些心理学家 包括Alice Eagly
But what psychologists have found, Daryl Bem和其他一些人
the likes of Alice Eagly,Daryl Bem and others. 他们发现行为同样也能影响态度
What they have found is that behavior also affects attitude. 这是一条双行线
It works both ways. 所以说如果我有某种行为模式
So if I behave in a certain way, 我的行为很可能会改变我相应的态度
it is likely to change my attitude in accordance with my behavior 这个问题我们以前也讲过
And remember we talked about it. 为什么呢?因为如果说我们有某种态度
Why? Because we have an attitude. 我们的行为就好像外在的世界
And our behavior is the outside world. 我们的大脑不能接受
The mind doesn't like 内在和外在不一致的情况
when there is incongruence between the inside and outside. 因此如果我们的行为是这样的
So if we behave in a certain way, 那我们的态度就会被拉下来
the attitude is gonna be pulled down to reflect that behavior. 和行为相对应 如果我们的行为是这样
If we behave in this way, 大脑不喜欢不一致的情况
the attitude the mind doesn't like incongruence, 它就会让两者达到对等
it's going to create equality between the two, 让两者之间达到一致 谐调
congruency consistency between the two. 方法就是要不然改变我们的行为 或者
And the way it'll do that is either by changing our behavior, 这点很关键-更多时候 改变我们的态度
and here is the key,or more often by changing our attitude. 我们在场的所有人 不管你是
Now all of us here, 18岁还是80岁 我们都有自己的习惯
whether you are 18 or whether you are 80,we all have habits. 我们最初养成习惯 习惯之后造就了我们
And again,we first make our habits and then our habits make us. 习惯是一种行为模式 思维模式
Habits are behavioral patterns,thinking patterns. 行为 行动比语言更有力
Behaviors are more powerful.Action is more powerful than words. 如果我们在这堂课之前 有某种行为习惯
If we have a certain behavior that we had before the class. 这堂课改变了你对某件事的态度
What the class does is change your attitude about a certain thing 如果因此你的态度变得和行为不相符
But if it doesn't match with your behavior, 下课之后 你的大脑寻求一致性
after the class the mind looks for consistency. 你的态度会被拉回到原来的状态
The attitude is gonna be pulled down back to where it was before 除非你改变自己的行为
unless your behavior changes to match your change of behavior. 所有的课程 不管是1504还是公正课或
All the class can do,whether it's 1504 or Justice or Psych 1. 心理学1 所有的课程 讲习班 研讨会
All the class all workshop and seminar. 所做的都是改变态度
All they can do is introduce attitudinal change. 在这门课上
In this class, 态度的转变就是 比如说 自尊
attitudinal change is one,for example,self-esteem. 什么是自尊?是一种我对自己的态度
What is self-esteem? The attitude that I have toward myself; 高自尊就是正面的 低自尊是负面的
high self-esteem positive,low self-esteem negative. 价值发现者和错误发现者的不同
What is the benefit finder versus the fault finder 在于他们看待世界的态度不同
is the attitude toward the world. 我把这个看成是积极的 能带给我
Do I see this positive as a resource for wellbeing? 幸福的呢 还是像错误发现者一样觉得是消极的
Or do I focus on the negative as a fault finder. 完美主义 是一种对待失败的态度
Perfectionism.It's an attitude toward failure. 这门课能做的 我和你们的助教所能做的
But all this class can do all I can do all your TFs can do 就是激发或鼓励你们在态度上的转变
is introduce or encourage attitudinal changes, 通过介绍这些研究 让你们相信
to convince you through research 正向思维的作用
that learn to focus on the positive. 但是 如果你们不在行为上做出改变
However,if you don't follow up with behavior 比如去做感恩练习
and that means doing the gratitude study, 比如这周要交的感谢信
um the gratitude exercise that means writing the letter 这个练习是应该定期去做的
you are responsible for this week but doing it regularly. 除非之后有相应的行为
Unless behavior is gonna follow, 否则你的态度会回复原状
the attitude will go back and reflect your attitude 你的态度和行为都和上课
and your behavior from before the class 或是接受疗法之前没有两样
or before the intervention. 必须要有行为上的改变
There has to be behavioral change. 现在我要给你们看一些研究
Let me show you some studies showing 这些研究的结果显示了行为改变的影响力
the impact of the behavioral change. 这个研究实验的对象是
This was done prisoners of war 朝鲜战争期间的美国战俘
in American prisoners of war during the Korean War. 当时就在街对面的MIT 科学家E.Schein
And what Edgar Schein who's just across street here at MIT showed 发现关押战俘的人最终改变了美国战俘
was that the captors of the Americans got them 对于共产主义 对于中国人的态度
to change their minds about Communism,about the Chinese. 这些关押他们的人只是很简单的
Captors. 要求他们把共产主义的优越性
How gradually by simply asking them 写下来
write about the good things within Communism. 我们知道 我们不喜欢共产主义
We know we don't like Communism. 如果喜欢的话 我们也不会打仗了
We wouldn't be fighting if we did. 但是要求他们只写优越性
But write about the positives of it. 写给你的狱友看
Write it to your prison-mates. 写信回家 告诉家人你被如何对待
Write letters home,telling them how you being treated 当然确保他们只能写好话 所以他们
and making sure of course they only focus on the good. 并没有要求战俘们撒谎 虽然战俘确实
So they didn't ask them to lie necessarily though often they did. 时常写些谎话 他们要求战俘只写优越性
But they asked them to focus on the positive. 长此以往 态度发生了转变
Over time,the attitude actually changed. 他们对关押者的戒备少了
And they became actually more open 好感多了
and more positive toward their captors. 因为他们的态度变了 通过写信
Because their behavior,writing letters, 和朋友聊天
talking to their friends about it, 还要做报告 每一次都在
they have to give lectures on it, 说"我觉得这样很好"
was one of “I feel positive about this”. 长此以往 他们的态度发生了转变
And their attitude over time actually changed. 变得更积极正面了
And they became more positive. 认知距离-这个词
Cognitive distance, 你们中间上过心理学1的人可能听说过
those of you who have taken Psych 1 or others heard about it. 认知距离的产生是因为两种想法
Cognitive distance is when there is incongruence 之间不一致 两种信念相冲突
between two thoughts when two beliefs are conflicting. 或者说行为和信念相冲突
We don't like it.We want there to be a match. 我们不愿看到这种情况 我们想要一致
Or when there is a conflict between behavior and a belief. 认知距离理论是讲这种冲突
And what cognitive distance says is that this is... 必须要被消解
has to be resolved. 我们消解它的方法就是让我们的
And the way we resolve it is usually by getting our attitudes, 态度 我们的想法和信念 尽量符合
our thoughts,our beliefs to match our behavior. 我们的行为 因为行为比语言更有力
Again behaviors is more powerful than words. 自我认知理论 我们已经讲过很多次了
Self perception theory,we talked about a lot. 这次我不打算详细说了
I'm not gonna elaborate on it any more. 就是我们认识自己
We see ourselves. 并从中衍生出自我结论
And we derive certain conclusions about ourselves. 脸部回馈假说
Facial feedback hypothesis. 如果你现在皱眉或者轻柔的微笑
If you put on a frown now or a nice gentle smile, 你体内的化学物质会发生变化
your body chemistries are actually going to change to reflect 这种变化反映了你表情的变化
whatever your face is showing. 引用一句名言 是...一行禅师说的
So this is a quote by..where is it? By Thich Nhat Hanh. 他的名字不好念 他是一个佛教僧侣
Kind of difficult to pronounce his name,a Buddhist monk. "有时你的欢乐是微笑的源泉
"Sometimes your joy is the source of your smile, 但有时你的微笑也可以成为欢乐的源泉"
but sometimes your smile can be the source of your joy." 所以说实际上 我们面部表情的变化
So we actually influence our body. 能够对我们的身体和情绪产生影响
We actually influence our mood through our face. 这也解释了为什么演员 不管演的
That's why actors very often can get into 是什么角色 都经常会入戏很深
whatever character they're playing simply by acting. 因为脸部回馈于身体其它部位
Because there's the facial feedback to the rest of your body. 在你做面部表情的时候
You actually release chemicals 你体内释放了相应的化学物质
according with the face that you are making. William James的一段话
William James. "吹口哨壮胆绝不仅仅是一种比喻
“Whistling to keep up courage is no mere figure of speech. 同样 无精打采的坐一天
On the other hand,sit all day in a moping posture,sigh, 哀声叹气 语气阴沉
and reply to everything with a dismal voice, 都会加重你的忧郁
and your melancholy lingers... 舒展眉头 发亮双眼
Smooth the brow,brighten the eyes, 挺胸收腹 声音洪亮
contract the dorsal rather than the ventral aspect of the frame, 友善的夸奖别人
and speak in a major key,pass the genial compliment, 除非你的心如钢铁
and your heart must be frigid indeed 否则不会不为这样的人所动"
if it does not gradually thaw." William James所说的已经不仅仅
What essentially William James is talking about 是脸部回馈假说
is something beyond the facial feedback hypothesis. 而是一个很少有相关研究的假说
It's something where there is not much research 身体回馈假说
just a little research on which is the body feedback hypothesis. 如果你整天这样坐着 而不是骄傲的
If you sit down all day like this versus upright in proud, 挺胸抬头 你的情绪会因此受到影响
it will affect your mood. 它会从几个方面影响你对自己的观感
It will affect how you feel about yourself in a few ways. 首当其冲的是 你向自己传递的信息
First of all,the message you communicate to yourself, 也就是自我认知理论说的
self perception theory. 但是同时 还有别人是如何看你的
But also in terms of how other people perceive you. 如果你握手是这样软绵绵的
If you shake hands like this limply versus shake hands firmly, 而不是这样坚定有力的握手
your are communicating message to the person 你在向与你握手的人传递某种信息
with whom you are shaking your hands. 那种信息最终会回到你这里
And that message comes back right at you both in terms of 一是通过别人对你的观感
how they perceive you and that impacts you 一是通过你的自我认知
but also in terms of how you perceive yourself. 你们知道 之前有个学生选了这门课
You know one of the ex students from 1504. 她当时是冰球队的
She played,er..she was on the hockey team, 去年毕业了 今年夏天我碰到她的时候
just graduated last year.So I met her over the summer. 她走过来 同我握手
And she comes over.And she shakes my hand. 然后我哭了 因为实在是太疼了
And I was in tears.It hurt so much. 我想她绝对是专心听课了
And I thought she must have listened in class. 所以千万不要太过分 坚定也得友好
So don't exaggerate,just firm,nice. 我是说真的 我觉得她把我的手骨
I mean really I think she broke some of the bones in my hand. 握碎了好几块 但是这真的很重要
But it matters. 因为握手传递了信息
It communicates a message. 我以后绝对不会找她的麻烦 永远不会
You know I'm not gonna mess with her ever. 我现在怕死她了
I'm scared of her right now. 这个握手传递的信息就是力量和信心
It communicates a message of strength and confidence. 如果我们走路时昂首阔步 我们在传递
If we walk around proud,we're communicating a certain message. 一种信息 如果我们走路时弯腰驼背
If we walk around stooped, 我们同样也是在向外界传递一种信息
we're also communicating a message to the environment 外界因此会给予我们回馈
that then reflects on us, 这种信息我们也会传递给自己
but also to ourselves and that also reflects on us too. 并产生自我回馈 最后我想给大家
And finally,I must share a study with you. 讲的是Hammerly做的研究
This is by Hammerly.This is a study done... 算了 我还是下次再讲这个研究
you know what,actually I'm gonna leave that to next time 因为我今天还有一些重要的事情要讲
because I wanna get to something important. 所以下节课一开始我就会讲这个研究
So I'm gonna start next time with this,with this study. 这个研究报告很长
Because it's say,it's a long study. 但是又很重要 所以下节课
But it's a very important study. 我要讲的第一件事就是这个研究
So I will,I will talk about it next time first thing in class. 今天下课前我还要讲一些内容
I want to get to something before we end, 这些内容足以改变我们的人际关系
something that will change our relationship. 弄假直到成真
Fake it till you make it. David Myers在这个属于幸福心理学
David Myers has done a lot of important work 的领域里做了很多相关的研究
in this area of positive psychology. 他在研究中发现 很多时候即便我们是
What he showed was it very often even if we act happy, 假装快乐 假装很有自尊 像William James
even if we act with high self-esteem, 说的假装高兴 我们的情绪也会因此改变
even if I act joyful as William James said,that affects our mood 问题来了:那我们怎么能全然为人呢
The question now becomes what about permission to be human. 好 首先 总有些时候
Well,first of all, 我们不想弄假直到成真
there are times when we don't want to fake it till we make it, 我们想要哭泣
we wanna cry, 我们想要难过 并表现出来
we wanna be miserable and we wanna act that way. 但是 同时 我们还得要
However,we need to find 准时出门 参加派对
when is it the time to get out and to go to that party 即便我们一点也不想出门
even if it's the last thing in the world that I wanna do. 这里的区别就在于积极接受
And the difference here is about active acceptance. 我仍然接受我的情绪
I can still accept up my emotions. 接受我的痛苦 并感受它
I can still accept my pain and experience it 同时选择用最适当 最对自己有益
and still choose to act in accordance with how I deal more, 的方式去面对
most appropriate or most helpful. 所以说 我能接受
So I can accept the fact you know 被女友抛弃这个现实 我能接受
I was just dumped say by my girlfriend, 自己感觉糟透了的现实 但是三天之后
I can accept the fact that I feel terrible about it and awful 照样出门到Oaks参加派对 疯玩一通
but then three days later go out to Oaks and party,go wild. 因此 正是因为脸部回馈假说
So faking it again because of the facial feedback hypothesis 因为身体回馈假说
because of the body feedback hypothesis 因为自我认知理论
because of self-perception theory. 行为影响了我的态度
The behavior will affect my attitude. 在Oakes狂欢一夜之后
And after a crazy night out in Oaks, 我实际上感觉好多了 也更健康了
I will actually feel better and healthy. 好吧健康不一定 但是感觉是好多了
well,may be not,but better. 下面我要播放一段Marva Collins的录像
Here's a quick video of Marva Collins, 当中她谈了一些自己的经历
talking the,talking about some of her experiences. "我觉得也许我现在这样是因为
“I think that maybe what I am is my parents and their consistency 我的父母和他们的坚持 我想要和他们一样成功
I mean I wanted to be as successful as my parents, 和我的祖父母一样成功
my grandparents. 在以前 成功的黑人是很少见的
In those days,it was quiet rare to be black and to be successful 所以我认为是我父母和祖父母的决心
So I think the determination of my parents and grandparents, 他们...我们会抬头挺胸
they are...we would get chest high. 我和比我小14岁的妹妹
As I said I was 14 years older than my one sister. 去教堂的时候 如果我们没有挺胸抬头
But if we walked in church and didn't hold our heads up. 我妈妈会说
My mom would say, '你们今天这么了?老低着头走路?'
‘what was wrong with you today walking with your head all down?' 她会在我上学的时候
She would scream down the street, 在街上喊'抬起你的头来!'
‘get your head up!' on my way to school. 我常听见别人对她说
People I've often heard them comment to her. '我一眼就能在操场找出你的小孩'
I can always tell you child are on the playground. 我们就是在这种骄傲的氛围里长大的"
We were brought up the great sense of pride." 抬起你的头 直着走 如果你仔细观察
Get your head up,walk up straight when you watch Marva Collins. Marva Collins 你会发现她就是这么走路的
That's how she walks.That's how she carries herself. 她的姿势就是如此 并因此给她的学生和其他人
And that communicates a message to her students 也给她自己传递了一种信息
to other people to herself. 我现在要跳过一些内容
I'm gonna jump to this point. 所以大部分行为上的变化都是渐进式的
So very often behavioral change is gradual. 那什么是突发式变化呢
So what is the acute change. 突发式变化关注的是如何应对
The acute change is about coping. 关注的是承担风险
It's about putting ourselves on the line. 当我们去应对的时候
And when we cope, 我们需要冒险
the important thing…when we to... it's to take risks. 需要做一些不太愿意做的事
It's to do something we don't feel comfortable doing. 换句话说
In other words, 就是 离开舒适区 进入学习区
it's about exiting our comfort zone and entering our stretch zone 现在我要给大家讲两个我自己的故事
Now what I wanna do now is share with you two stories from, 这两个故事乍听起来毫不相干 但如果
from my past,two stories that initially you will see unconnected 大家听明白了的话 就会发现它们息息相关
but as you will understand soon are very much connected. 第一个故事不轻松 另一个也不轻松
One a difficult story,the other a difficult story. 我的第一个人生记忆
My first memory. 大家知道当人们开始记事的时候
You know most people can, 记得的第一件事就是
most people have a first memory the first time 第一个人生记忆
when the first thing that you remember. 我的第一个人生记忆是发生在
My first memory is from September 1973. 1973年9月 那时我快满三岁了
I was almost 3 years old. 那天是赎罪日 一年当中最神圣的一天
And it was Yom Kippur the holiest day of the year. 我记得我当时在家 突然电话响了
And I remember being at home and suddenly the phone rings. 我的父母是非常正统的教徒 我从小
Now the phone my parents orthodox.I was raised orthodox. 成长在正统的家庭里 我们的电话在安息日
The phone never rings on Shabbat,on a Saturday; 周六都不会响的 更不要说赎罪日了 但是
let alone Yom Kippur.But the phone rings. 这天电话响了
Both of my parents. 我记得他们当时跳了起来 向电话奔去
I remember them jump up and run to the phone. 我爸爸拿起了电话
My dad picks it up. 我当时站在父母中间
And I'm standing between my parents. 我爸爸看着我妈妈 小声说着什么
He looks at my mom and said something whispering. 我听不清 但是我看到我妈妈的脸色
Couldn't hear what it was.But my mom's face changes. 变了 我从她眼里看到了恐惧 我哭了起来
And there's terror,fear in her eyes.And I begin to tear. 我爸爸把我抱起来 他对我说
And my dad picks me up 我要离开几天 不过我会回来的
and says I'm going for a few days but I'll be back. 现在我知道当时发生了什么事
Now I know what happens. 当时 我父母接到我叔叔打来的电话
So what happened was that my parents got a call from my uncle 他当时在军队服役 在情报部门
who at that time was doing his reserves in the military. 他说战争爆发了
He's in,he is in intelligence.And war had just broke out. 在以色列一年当中最神圣的一天
Young people at the holiest day of the year in Israel. 年轻人 以色列军队
The Israel military 当时都不在边防线上
is most of the people are not the boarders,are not protecting. 完全出乎大家的意料
It is a complete surprise, 5个阿拉伯国家同时向以色列宣战
5 Arab armies,launch a war against Israel. 我爸爸把我放下来 走进他的房间
My dad puts me down,goes to his room from the top of the .. 一切仍历历在目 我看到他拿出自己的军装
I still see him taking out his army uniform putting it on, 穿好 拿出他的M16自动步枪 背好
taking his M16 sub machine gun,putting it on, 穿上鞋 系好鞋带
putting on his shoes tieing them. 我妈妈一直在他身边帮他整理
And my mom all the while with him making him things. 他们交谈当中偶尔会向我微笑一下
They are talking once in a while smiling at me. 但是我感到一种紧张不安 我不明白为什么
But I sense a tension there.I don't know why. 然后我们一起下楼走到我爸爸的车旁边
We then walk down to my dad's car. 他当时有一辆老式的绿色福特跑天下
He had a tur- old turquoise Ford Cortina. 他把鞋油拿出来 涂在车前灯上
He takes shoe polish and paints the lights of the of the car. 为什么呢 也是后来我才知道
Why? Again later I know 因为在夜里开车的时候 你开着车灯
because at night when you drive with your lights on, 车灯不能太亮 以防会遭到空袭
you don't want the lights to be too bright in case of an air raid 所以他涂了车灯 我就在一旁看着他
So he paints the lights.And I watch him do all that. 然后他把我抱起来 又一次的
And then he picks me up and hugs me 抱着我说 "我过几天就回来"
and says once again “I'll be back in a few days." 然后他上了车 我开始控制不住的哭泣
He gets into his car.And I begin to sob uncontrollably. 我们的邻居 Sharlon
One of our neighbours whose name is Sharlon. 他年岁太高不能服役
He is too old to go into the army. 他站在一边
So he is standing there. 我们一起看着我爸爸开车走了
We all look at my dad going off in the car. 他把我抱起来 我还在哭
He picks me up.And I'm crying. 他看着我说
And he looks at me and says, "Tal 你长大以后想和爸爸一样
'Tal,do you want to be a soldier like Aba, 去当兵吗?"
like your dad when you grow up?' 我说 "我想"
and I say,'Yes,I do.' 他说 "那好 士兵是不会哭的" 于是我不哭了
'Well,soldiers don't cry.' And I stopped crying. 之后将近20年 我再也没哭过
And I didn't cry for almost 20 years after that. 我上了哈佛大学 我开始学心理学
Then I came to Harvard.And I started to study psychology. 你们知道我要讲什么是吧
You know where I'm going,right? I started to study psychology. 我开始学心理学
And studying psychology, 我知道自己想要做的
I realized one of the things that I wanted to work on. 想要做的最重要的事情之一
One of the most important things that I wanted to work on 就是找到自己女性化的一面
was getting in touch with my feminine side, 用荣的话说 就是阴和阳
knowing Jung's language,the Yin and the Yang; 雌雄同体
the anima the animus. 我想要找到自己女性化的一面是因为
I wanted to be more in touch with of my feminine side 我知道压抑情感是不健康的
because I knew that it wasn't healthy to repress emotions. 我压抑痛苦的情绪
I was repressing painful emotions. 同时也压抑积极正面的情绪
The exact same thing happens with positive emotions. 因为是同一条情绪通路
Same emotional channels. 但是我在一个非常强调男子气概的
But I grew up in a culture that's very macho. 文化环境中长大 男人不哭 士兵不哭
Men don't cry.Or soldiers.Or tough. 我们很坚强 可以搞定任何事情
We can handle anything. 这是我长大的文化背景
And that's the culture that I grew up. 而且 那是我人生的第一个回忆
And again this was my first memory. 之后我反复听过同样的话无数次
I heard the same thing over and over and over again, 传递的都是同样的讯息
the same message. 这样不行 表露情绪一点也不爷们
It's not cool.It's not manly to show emotions. 我现在想起来
It reminds me up 那时候我输掉了对于我来说最重要的
after losing one of the most important squash tournaments for me, 壁球比赛 全国冠军
losing the national championships 之前的一年我是冠军 当时我很震惊
after I'd won it the year before.Surprise. 我本不该输掉 本该赢的
Wasn't supposed to lose it; was supposed to win. 之后我和女朋友一起回家
I go to my house with my girlfriend after. 我们就是一起消磨时间
And we're just hanging out. 突然间她哭了起来
And suddenly she begins to cry. 我问她 "你哭什么?"
And I say to her,'why are you crying?' 她说 "我哭是因为你不哭"
And she said,'I'm crying because you are not crying.' 因为她明白这场比赛对于我有多重要
Because she understood how important it was for me. 这就是我在童年 青少年阶段的体验
And this is how I basically experience my childhood,teenage, 要坚强 要像个男人
being tough,being macho. 然后我来到这里 我明白我要释放出来
And then I came here and understood I need to let go. 我要找到自己女性化的一面
I need to be more in touch with the feminine side. 这就是我的第一个故事
So this is story number one. 现在让我来讲第二个故事
Let me move on to story number two. 我以前的一个学生 你们当中可能有人认识她
One of the students that I had here,some of you may know her, 她是04届毕业的 叫Lindsay Hyde
class of 04,was Lindsay Hyde. Lindsay Hyde在我这里学习
Lindsay Hyde studied with me. 我们也有一对一教学 经常一起学习
We had one on one tutorial as well.We worked a lot together. Lindsay Hyde是'顽强女人顽强女生'
Lindsay Hyde is the founder of 'Strong Women Strong Girls', 组织的创始人 一个非常棒的组织
wonderful organization part of PBHA. 隶属于菲利普斯布鲁克斯内务协会
She found it,now a national organization. 现在已是全国性的组织 我也是筹款委员会
I was also one of the funding board member of that organization. 的一员 有兴趣的人可以去他们的网站
Wonderful site swsg.org for those of you interested. swsg.org看看 Lindsay邀请我给
I was invited by Lindsay to give a talk for '顽强女人顽强女生'的导师们做报告
'Strong Women Strong Girls' for the mentors 这些导师都是些哈佛学生 以及来自
who were Harvard students as well as students from… 波士顿其它院校的女会员
other women from other colleges around Boston. 于是我去做了一个报告 照片上的就是Lindsay
And I gave a talk.And here's Lindsay. 这是她和一个三年级学生在一起 她
She was with one of the students,3rd grade student, 还有其他几位哈佛学生是这个学生的导师
who she mentors and other Harvard students mentor 他们一起做了很多很棒的事
and do wonderful work. 我非常相信这个机构的理念
And I believe in this organization. 几乎从筹备的最初阶段我就支持他们
I support it from the from the get-go almost.And I gave a talk. 所以我做了一个报告 这个报告是关于
And the talk was about teaching the importance of role modeling, 模范人物的重要性 关于诚实
was about integrity. 我跟他们讲了Marva Collins
I talked to them about Marva Collins 讲了他们要做的重要工作
and about the important work that they were doing. 我觉得 对于我和所有与会者来说
And at the end of the talk which went well, 整个报告进行的非常顺利
I think for myself for the participants, 最后 我收到了一份表示感激的礼物
I got a present,a gift a token of appreciation. 礼物是一件衬衣
And the present was a shirt. 这可不是普通的衬衣
It wasn't any shirt. 是一件粉色的衬衣 这个颜色我平时
It was a pink shirt,the color I don't normally wear. 不穿 当然在以色列我从来没穿过
Certainly I never wore it in Israel. 因为这是一件'顽强女人顽强女生'衬衣
Not only it was a pink shirt,it was, 这衬衣不仅是粉色的 而且
since it was the Strong Women Strong Girl shirt. 尺码还很小
It was also a very small shirt, 给三年级学生穿应该比较合适
more suited for the 3rd graders than for older ones. 但是他们还是对我说
But still they said, '我们希望你能收下这份表达我们谢意的礼物'
' we wanted you to have it as a token of our appreciation.' 然后我就犯了一个错误 我当然是在开玩笑
And then I made a mistake.And I said jokingly of course. 当时我在教1504课程 我开玩笑的说
I was teaching 1504 at the time. '我会穿着这件衣服去上课的' 然后我笑了
I said jokingly,'I will wear the shirt to class 'and laughed. 这就是我收到的那件衬衫
And here it is the shirt that I got. 我在1504班上的另一个学生
And then there was another student of mine from 1504, Tory Martin 她在Lindsay走后
Tory Martin,who was who run the organization 接管了这个机构 她当时是主席
at that time took over from Lindsay at Harvard. Tory Martin说 '我会确保你兑现承诺的'
And Tory Martin said,'I'm gonna hold you to it.' 然后我又笑了 然后我差一点就哭了
And I laughed and then almost cried.Becau.. 我说 '你什么意思?什么确保我兑现承诺
'what do you what do you mean hold me to it. 我是开玩笑的' 她说 '你看
I mean I was joking.' She said, 你不是刚给我们讲过诚实的重要性么'
'look,you just talk to us about the importance of integrity.' 我的确是讲了 你们看 这里 诚实
which I did,I mean look here,integrity. 尽管这么靠后也能看见 我是讲了
It's even behind.I did.I said,that's right,I did. 我说 '好吧 我讲了 我现在怎么办'
So what am I gonna go back on my word?' 诚实可是我的核心价值之一
That's one of my core values,integrity. 然后我的眼前闪过了我的整个童年
And then my whole childhood flashed before my eyes. 然后我就想到了丘吉尔说过的一句话
And I thought about something that Churchill said '在逆境中寻找转机'
which was 'find opportunity in difficulty.' 于是我一直在寻找转机
So I looked for the opportunity. 现在转机来了 就在这件粉色衬衫上
And here it was an opportunity handed to me in a pink shirt, 让我找到自己女性化的一面
to be more in touch with my feminine side. 女士们 先生们 2008年春装展
So ladies and gentlemen.Spring fashion 2008. [音乐]
[MUSIC] 我懂 我懂的 你们也许不会相信
Now I know I know you're gonna find this hard to believe. 但还是相信我 当我说
But believe me 这个对于我来说是在我的舒适区之外
when I say that this for me was going out of my comfort zone. 实际上这已经都不在我的学习区之内了
In fact maybe it was going out from my stretch zone a little bit, 已经到我的恐慌区了
but into my panic zone. 上课之前 备课的时候
I was telling the TFs before class that 你们知道我都是要做笔记的
when I prepared for this class. 所以我在这里写下要干什么
You know I have,I have all my notes you know. 我跟助教们说
And here I write. 我刚写进笔记的时候 每次看过去
Every time I went over it,when I initially wrote it on my notes. 我都感到肾上腺素在胃里飙升
It was like a ...adrenalin rush in my stomach, 这就是在舒适区之外
going out of my comfort zone. 现在我也是在舒适区之外
Now I'm also out of my comfort zone 这就是为什么我要在下课前
which is why I have to have it at the end of the class 而不是刚上课的时候干这件事
as opposed to the beginning of class. 关键是要达到最适度的不适感
But the key is to attain optimum levels of discomfort. 我可能的确是有点太吓人了
I may have a little overshock a little bit. 但是关键是最适度的不适感
But the key is optimum levels of discomfort. 为什么呢?想要改变 别无他法
And why? There is no other way to change. 我可以想一天想破头
I can think about it all day long 一直说我要找到女性化的一面
and say I want to be in touch with my feminine side 我要更勇敢 我要释放出来
or I want to be more courageous,I want to get out. 我可以想一整天
I can think about it all day long. 什么也不会发生的
Nothing will happen. 什么也不会发生的
Nothing will happen 除非我们有真正的实质的行为改变
unless we bring about real actual behavioral change, 真正的实质的行为动作
real actual behavioral action. 当我们做到这一点的时候 天高任鸟飞
And when we do that,then the sky is the limit. 谢谢大家 下周四再见
Thank you.I will see you on Thursday. 



 Chapter 10: 养成良好习惯


大家早上好
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Hi.Good morning. 首先今天在座的有低年级父母吗
So first of all,are there any junior parents today? 欢迎 欢迎 非常高兴你们能来
Welcome.Welcome.I'm so glad you are here. 我更高兴你们周二没有来
I'm even gladder you weren't here on Tuesday. 我...要先宣布一点事
So just...just...Just a couple of announcements. 周二之后我一直问自己
Yeah,you know,I was asking myself after Tuesday, "他们以后还会不会认真听我的话了" 我希望如此
"are they ever going to take me seriously again?" I hope so. 或者"他们明天还会喜欢我吗"
Or "will they love me tomorrow?" 好了 还是先宣布点事情吧
So just a couple of announcements. 首先 我收到很多关于论文的邮件
First,there are many emails regarding the response papers, 你们写的感谢信
whether the gratitude letters that you write, 也需要提交给你们的助教
you also need to submit to your,to your TF, 作为论文 所以我的回答既不肯定也不否定
as the response paper.So the answer is yes and no. 好了 也就是 对 你得提交
Alright,next.Yes! You do need to submit it. 不过如果那封信过于私人
However,if the letter is too personal 或者由于任意原因你不太愿意提交
or you don't feel comfortable for any reason submitting 给你的助教
to your TF as well, 就直接给助教发"我写了那封信"
just send your TF a note saying "I wrote the letter" 我们会信任你的
and we will take your word for it. 所以不是一定要提交
And...so you don't have to submit it, 虽然最好是能提交
though it would be great if you do. 一个半礼拜之后就要期中考
The midterm is coming up in a week and a half. 所以关于期中考我说几句
So just a couple of words about the midterm. 我们打算期中考
What we have decided to do 只出选择题
is to just have a multiple choice midterm. 会有... 不太记得了 多少道 50? 50
There'll be - can't remember how many - 50? Five zero. 50道选择题
50 questions on the multiple choice. 有75分钟的作答时间
And you'll have 75 minutes to do it. 这样就可以留出十分钟
So we'll allow for the 10 minutes 到十五分钟的时间来组织秩序
or 15 minutes to get organized here. 考试不会太难
It's not going to be a difficult,you know... 要愚弄或是考倒你们
Try to fool you or to catch you. 而是会考得很直接
It's going to be pretty straight forward. 第一节课我曾告诉过你们我对考试的态度
I've told you my philosophy about exams during the first class, 如果你们还记得的话
those of you who remember. 过去 我不太习惯弄考试
In the past,I didn't used to have an exam 因为我记得我本科时就很讨厌考试
because I remember I wasn't happy taking exams as an undergrad. 己所不欲勿施于人嘛
And you know do not do unto others. 不过后来我意识到考试确实是有价值的
But then,I realize that there was the value to them. 不是在于高低分化
Not a value in terms of differentiation, 或者成绩之类的
grades and stuff,all that. 而在于期中考或期末考可以让你安下心来
The value is that the midterm or final gets you to sit down 整合所有学过的知识
and synthesize all the material. 如果是家庭作业 你可以找你所需的答案
So if it's a take home,you look for the answers where you are. 你只掌握了部分的知识
You take...you just get part of it. 但有期中考或期末考
With the midterm or final, 你就能坐下来从第一课看到最后一课
you sit down and you read everything from lesson 1 to lesson 26. 而这可以帮助你整合知识
And then that helps you synthesize 进而吸收掌握知识
and hence internalize the material. 请记住我反复强调的
Because remember what I mentioned time and again: 这门课是基于螺旋形的知识体系的
this class is built around the spiral theory of knowledge, 也就是说我们在第一课中讲的内容
meaning everything we talked about in lesson 1,in class 1, 与第三课相联系 与第七课相联系
is related to class 3,is related to class 7, 与第二十四课有联系 所有东西都是内在相连的
is related to class 24.Everything is interconnected. 而只有你静下心来
And it's when you sit down, 当我在讲某个知识时 我知道
you know when I talk about the material,I know 接下来的三周我会讲到什么 以及它们的联系
it's going to come three weeks from now and I know the connection 你们还不能 但当你们坐下来准备考试时
You still don't,but when you sit down and study for the exam, 才能建立知识间的联系
that's when you get to make the connection, 才能从更高的层面真正
and that's when you really internalize the material 吸收掌握知识 所以我们才要举行考试
at a much higher level.So this is why we have it. 我知道这不好玩 但对教学有好处
I know it's not fun however I think it is pedagogically. 静下心来把知识过一遍是很重要的
It is important to sit down and have a run through, 不管是期中考还是期末考
whether it's the midterm and again,for the final. 再说一次 不会很难 但一定要复习
Again,won't be difficult,but do study for it. 考试会很直接 基于事实
It would be very straightforward,fact-based. 可以想象得到 期中考不是要展示创造力
The midterm,as you can imagine,is not about showing creativity. 我们的目标是让你们回顾并掌握知识
Our goal is that you go over the material and synthesize it. 有任何问题
If you have any questions, 可以给助教发邮件 他们会给予回复
please email your TFs and they'll be able to answer. 如果没有 那就发邮件给我
If not,then email me. 好了 上回讲到哪了 其实我不太记得了
OK.So where were we last time? Actually can't remember. 我好像忘了上节课的内容
I think I repress the whole lesson. 不过有人跟我说我跳过了一些东西
But I was told that I skipped a few things 以便最后能完成我的节目
so that I could get to the show at the end. 有一样被跳过的东西 我想回头讲一下
And one thing that I skipped and I want to talk about go back to, 在我们谈到身体反馈假说之后
after we talked about the body feedback hypothesis. 还记得身体反馈假说吗
You remember the body feedback hypothesis? 你握手的方式 言谈举止
How you shake your hand,how you carry yourself. 还有面部反馈假说 包括微笑 皱眉
With the facial feedback hypothesis,with your smile,your frown. 这向他人传递了特定的信息
That communicates certain message to other people, 然后他人再反馈回来给我们 与此同时
who then reflect back to us and at the same time, 我们也在和自己沟通
we are also communicating to ourselves. 我自信吗 骄傲吗 或者我害怕恐惧吗
Am I confident? or am I proud? Or am I afraid and scared? 很多时候我们需要
And very often we need to, 正如我所说"不断伪造方能成真"
as we talk about "fake it till we make it". 因为我们的身体 行为 给我们的思想
Because our body,our behavior sends messages to our mind, 以及情感提供信息 并影响它们
to our emotions and affects them. 有一个很不错的研究
There was a wonderful research done 由Haemmerlie以及第二作者Montgomery完成
by Haemmerlie and second author,Montgomery. Haemmerlie和Montgomery做了如下研究
Haemmerlie and Montgomery did the following research. 他们招募了一些内向的直男
They recruited shy heterosexual men. 招募他们进行研究 内向的性取向正常的男人
Recruited them for the study.Shy,heterosexual men. 研究是按如下方式进行的
And the study was run as follow: 这些人被告知研究就是做一些特定的测试
these men were told that the study was about taking certain test 他们被邀请到William James大楼
and they were invited into the equivalent of William James Hall, 然后被告知"很不幸我们进度落后了"
and they were told "unfortunately we were running behind, "所以你得稍等"
so you have to wait. "必须在研究开始之前稍作等待"
You have to wait until the study actually takes place. 同时等候室在这里
In the mean time,you know here is a waiting room 有很多人也在等候做相同的测试
and there are other people waiting for the same test. "等到了的时候我们会来叫你"
And we'll come and get you. "可能得等一会 抱歉"
It may take a while.Sorry. "我们会付你额外等待时间的酬劳的"
We'll pay you for it for the time you have to wait extra." 于是他就在等候室里等候
So they ended up waiting in a waiting room. 还有一个人和他一起等
And with them was waiting another person. 一位女性 他并不知道她其实是共谋者
A female,who unbeknownst to them was actually a confederate, 是研究的一部分
was actually a part of the study. 他以为她和他一样在等候
But they thought she was just like them,waiting, 也在等候进行测试
also waiting in line for the study to take place. 于是他和一个女人一起坐了12分钟
So they were sitting there for 12 minutes with a woman, 那个女人的任务是与这个内向直男
whose instruction was to strike up a conversation 发起对话 并对他所说的东西
with this shy heterosexual man,and to express a lot of interest 表现出极大的兴趣和兴奋感
and excitement about what they were saying. 于是他们互相倾听  互相提问
So they were listening and they were asking questions. "哇" "真的吗"
"Wow." "Really?" 他们在12分钟里谈笑风生
They were laughing at what they were saying for 12 minutes. 然后
And then,that, 那女人进去做他们以为的测试
the woman went into the experiment or so they thought. 另一个女人再进来 又是12分钟
Another woman comes in.Again,for 12 minutes, 她和这个内向直男坐在一起
she sits down with the shy heterosexual man 表现极大的兴趣 对他说的话发笑
and seems very interested and laughs at what he has to say, 向他提问
and asks questions. 诸如此类 聊12分钟
And so on and so...for 12 minutes. 她进去做试验之后 下一个女人又进来
And the next woman comes in,as she goes into the experiment. 如此类推 一共六次
And so on.Six times. 六个女人坐在这些内向直男身边
Six women sitting with the shy heterosexual men, 对他们所说的话表现极大的兴趣
being very interested in what they have to say, 开启对话 一共72分钟
striking a conversation.72 minutes total. 然后再进行所谓的真正的试验
And then they go into the real experiment,whatever it was. 然后第二天
And then next day, 他们又被邀请参加同样的试验
they are invited for the same experiment again. 再把完全一样的流程走一遍
And once again,they go through the exact same procedure. 72分钟里 他们和六个女人分别坐在一起
For 72 minutes,they sit down with 6 women 她们对他们的谈话内容表现极大兴趣
who are very interested in what they have to say. 当然了 这个试验要研究的就是
And of course,what really the experiment was interested in 这会有什么效果
was what effect does this have. 这种行为对于他们的内向会有什么效果
What effect does this behavior have on their shyness? 而答案是非常大
And it had radical effects. 接下来的半年里 跟踪调查发现
So over the next 6 months,when they followed upon these, 这些男人突然变得没那么紧张了
these men suddenly became far less anxious. 总体上来说 尤其是在女人旁边
In general,and specifically around women. 他们没有那么害羞了
They became less shy. 这些男人 很多是人生中第一次
These men often for the first time in their lives, 开始发展感情 开始约会
initiate relationships and start to date 在144分钟的干预以后
after 144 minutes of intervention. 天翻地覆的变化 但有一个问题
Radical difference.But there was a problem. 许多心理学实验的普遍问题是什么
What's the problem with many of these psychological experiment? 就是必须向受试者报告结果
That you have to debrief. 没错 你得报告结果
Exactly.You have to debrief. 因此半年后 试验结束
So six months later,the study was over. 研究者重新聚集受试者
The researchers invite the men in 告诉他们这只是个研究
and tell them this was just a study. 而那些女人其实是试验的一部分
And these women were actually part of the experiment- 是被要求表现出兴趣的
they were told to seem interested. 很残忍对吧 但并不像预想的那样
Cruel,right? Well,less than they thought. 这对那些男人没有影响
It made no difference to these men. 因为那时 他们已经外向了许多
Because by this time,they were much more outgoing. 他们与异性相处愉快
They were doing well with the opposite sex. 他们出去约会 他们不再那么内向
They were going on dates.They were less shy. 这开启了一个良性循环 已经完全没关系了
It started a positive spiral.It didn't matter at all. 144分钟改变了他们的生活
144 minutes changed their lives, 至少从约会的角度来看
as far as the dating was concerned at least,if not more. 为什么呢 回忆一下Bandura对自我效能的研究
Why? Think back to Bandura's work on self-efficacy. 没有比成功本身对成功更好的催化剂
Nothing breeds success like success. 当他们成功时 做得很好时
When they succeeded,they did well, 他们能看到自己做得很好 --自我知觉理论
they saw themselves doing well- self-perception theory. 关于对自我的认识和感知
Certain conclusions about who they are, 使他们进入良性循环
what they are and that led to an upward spiral, 并且保持这个良性循环
and continued that upward spiral. 我们刚刚讲了"不断伪造方能成真"
Yeah,we talked about 'fake it till we make it', 再看看Marva Collins
then watch Marva Collins. 先祖伦理
Chapters of the Fathers.Pirkei Avot. 很重要的犹太教教义写道
One of the seminal Jewish texts: "那些行为超越其智慧的人 他们的智慧将恒久"
"Those whose deeds exceed their wisdom,their wisdom shall endure "但那些智慧超越其行为的人"
but those whose wisdom exceeds their deeds, "他们的智慧无法持久"
their wisdom shall not endure.” 如果能记住我说过的
If we just- remember what I talked about- 当我们参加讨论会或者上课
if we just go to a workshop or a class, 并从认知水平上理解它
and understand it on the cognitive level, 即便有灵光乍现的时刻 有突破 也不会发生什么
even have an ah ha moment,a break through,nothing will happen, 除非我们的行为跟上了
unless we follow our new found wisdom 这新闪现的智慧 为什么呢
or understanding with deeds,with action.Why? 因为我们首先塑造习惯 然后习惯再反过来塑造我们
Because we first make our habits,and then our habits make us. 假设我们在参加学术讨论或上课之前是这个水平
And if we are before the workshop or class here, 然后我们的态度改变了 但行为没变
and then our attitude changes but our behavior doesn't, 态度会随着时间流逝被习惯又拉回来
our attitude will be pulled down over time by our habits. 所以只有我们随着时间改变习惯
So it's only,if we also change our habits over time, 开始做点什么 比如说
if we start doing things,if we,for example, 强迫自己做些事 解决些问题
put ourselves on the line- cope. 或者开始做感恩的训练
Or if we start doing the gratitude exercise 或者平时经常写信
or writting letters on the regular basis, 或者开始做运动
or starting physical exercise- 可以证明是最有力的干预
arguably being most powerful intervention, 来解决焦虑 沮丧 以及多动症
to deal with anxiety,depression as well as the ADHD. 除非我们很快开始做这些事
And that's when we start doing these things 否则这改变就会是短暂的
right after the change is going to be ephemeral 我们很快会回到原来的状态
we are going to go back to where we were before. 持久的长远的改变
Lasting,permanent change- 态度的改变必须要使行为与之匹配
attitude change has to be matched by deeds,by behavior. Dan Millman 我几周前在课上提过他
Dan Millman- I mentioned him in class a couple of weeks ago, 在《深夜加油站遇见苏格拉底》一书中
The way of peaceful warrior, 探讨了行动与改变的重要性
talks about the importance of action and change. 他说 我引述 "要改变人生轨迹
He says,quote,"To change the course of your life, 就要从两种基本方法中选择
choose one of two basic methods. 其一 你可以指引你的能量及
One.You can direct your energy 注意力 用其整理思想 集中精神
and attention toward trying to fix your mind,find your focus, 巩固力量
affirm your power, 释放情感以及想象乐观结果
free your emotions and visualize positive outcomes so that 从而使你最终获得自信 鼓起勇气
you can finally develop the confidence to display the courage 下定决心做出承诺
to discover the determination to make the commitment 获得充分的激励去做你要做的事
to feel sufficiently motivated to do what it is you need to do. 其二 你也可以直接去做"
Two.Or you can just do it." 有时说起来容易 做起来难
You know,sometimes,easier said than done. 但通常
However,very often, 例如跳入水中 这个行为
you know,jumping into the water,just doing it, 做出行动本身 和所有前期准备有一样的效果
taking action has the same effect as all the preparation, 或者效果更好 能形成良性循环
or even the better effect,and leads to an upward spiral. 然后我们谈到了应对以及退出舒适区
OK.Then we talked about coping and exiting your comfort zone. 家长们 你们可以暂时忽视这个
Parents,please close your eyes at this point.Alright. 然后我以找到你们的
And I ended by talking about attaining your "最佳不适水平"结束
'optimum levels of discomfort'. 这是什么意思 什么意思
What does this mean? What does this mean? 我们可以寻找改变的途径或方法
So we can look at approaches to change or reactions to change, 伴随紧张的连续统一体的行为改变
behavioral change along the continuum of tension. 我们大多数人在大多数时候都蜷缩于舒适区
Most of us most of the time are in our comfort zone. 这很好 很不错 但是
It's great.It's wonderful.However, 当我们处于舒适区里时 很少发生变化
when we are in the comfort zone,very little change happens. 当跳出舒适区 就到了拉伸区
If you go beyond that,we get to our stretch zone. 也就是最佳不适区
This is what we call the optimal discomfort zone. 这就是改变实际发生的地方
This is where change actually happens. 再越过这个就是恐慌区
Beyond that is the panic zone. 此时我们就有了焦虑和困扰
This is where we have anxiety and difficulty. 这通常是不健康的区域
This is the place that is usually unhealthy. 对于改变来说不健康
Unhealthy for change. 因为这时通常我们都会回到原来的状态
Because very often,we can go back on where we were before. 可以打个比方
You can think about this with a metaphor: 舒适区就像是结冰的水
the comfort zone would be freezing water. 拉伸区就是流动的水
The stretch zone would be flowing water. 而恐慌区就是沸腾的水
The panic zone would be boiling water. 非常躁动
Again,a lot of movement, 但难以控制 并且十分危险
but out of control and potentially dangerous. 一般最好是呆在拉伸区里
The best way to be usually is in the stretch zone. 下周当你们读到"流动"时会读到这个
You'll read about it next week when you read about flow. 流动就是当你受到适度的刺激
Flow is when you have optimal level of arousal, 适度的紧张
optimal level of tension. 当你做的事 或者别的什么
When the task that you are doing,or whatever you are doing, 既不会太难也不会太简单
is not too difficult nor too easy. 我上节课最后的部分 很显然
See what I did at the end of last class was certainly, 正如我所说 你们所见 就越出了我的舒适区
as I said,as you saw I hope,out of my comfort zone. 可是它还不足以 可能够了...
However,it wasn't enough- well,maybe- 但应该还没到恐慌区
but probably not in the panic zone. 为什么呢 因为我已经认识你们了
Why? Because I already know you- 我们已经在一起一个多月了
we have been together for over a month. 已经过了撤课的最后期限 你们已经来不及了
It's already passed at the drop date- so,too late for you. 所以我也不是冒了很大的风险
So I wasn't taking that much of the risk. 只是拉伸一下 而且这件事对我很重要
It was just stretching.And it was important for me to do... 我是说对我个人来说很重要
I mean,really personally important for me to do it. 因为它确实拉伸了我
Because it does stretch me 使我更多的接触到了我的人性
and get me more in touch with my humanity. 或者比方说你要在健身房里锻炼
Or for example,let's say you want to start an exercise in gym. 你意识到这很重要 你看了这方面的研究
You realize how important it is.You read the research. 你得知这方面的研究
You are exposed to that research 你看到它确实有很重要的作用
and you see it really has an important effect. 于是你开始锻炼
And you start exercising. 如果你已经锻炼了五年
Well,if you have an exercise for 5 years 然后你打算开始每天跑八英里
and you got to start running 8 miles a day. 问题就来了
That's a problem. 你拉伸过度了 你可能会受伤
You are over-stretching.You'll probably get injured. 如果你继续坐在电视前 或者打游戏
If you continue sitting in front of the TV or playing gameboy, 那对于改变也不是什么好事
that's also not good for change. 也就是呆在舒适区也许不是好事
That's the comfort zone perhaps not good. 拉伸就是"好吧 就从每天
Stretch will be "OK,let me start with walking 走两英里开始 然后逐渐增加"
for two miles a day and build it up gradually." 拉伸自己 但不要过度
Stretch myself,but not too much. 或者如果你想给别人做讲座
Or if you think about starting to give lectures to others, 传递知识 积极心理学或者生物学
paying it forward,in positive psychology or biology, 无论是什么话题
whatever your topic is, 在观众面前你都会紧张
and you get anxious in front of an audience. 不一定要从Sanders剧院开始
You don't start giving a lecture in Sanders Theatre. 可以从你的朋友 队友开始
You start initially with your friends,teammates. 我就是从我的壁球队友开始的
This is how I start with my squash teammates. 我给他们做了第一次讲座 然后给家人做
I gave the first lecture to them and then I gave it to my family. 逐渐走出舒适区
Gradually out of the comfort zone. 每次拉伸一点点 然后逐渐增加
A little bit of stretch and then build it over time. 这是改变的健康方式
This is the health way of approaching change. 但是有时候 有的时候
Sometimes though,sometimes though, 我们必须要进入恐慌区
we have to go to the panic zone. 为什么 因为有些东西无法
why? Because something cannot be changed, 或者几乎不可能逐渐地改变
or almost impossible to change gradually. 例如 成瘾
For example,addiction. 如果我是个瘾君子 那就很难说出
If I'm addicted to drugs,it's very difficult to say, "我就少注射一点
"well I'll just have a little bit less, 今天少一点 明天再少一点"
inject a little bit less today.A little bit less tomorrow." 通常都要很突然 然后我们就处于沸腾的区域
It usually has to be abrupt.And then we are in the boiling realm. 就处在恐慌区
Then we are in the panic zone. 时常都是这样 所以我们才需要帮助
Quite literally at times,which is why we need help. 在此时我们需要有人抓紧我们
In this area,we need someone to hold us. 安慰我们 保护我们
Someone to comfort us.Someone to protect us. 因为这是个如此反复无常的地带
Because it is such a volatile zone. 并且十分危险
And potentially dangerous. 但一般来说 如果你想改变
But generally,if you want to change, 健康的方式就是在拉伸区进行
the healthy approach to change would be along the stretch zone. 仅从理论上来说 是不可能改变的
It's impossible to change in theory. 我已经说了很多遍 但还是经常有
Now I have said it so many times and yet very often people 上了这个课的人 他们中的很多人确实改变了
who take the class,as you know,many of them do change. 他们中的很多人确实说
Many of them do say, "上这个课使我的生活变得更美好了"
"well my life is better today for having taken it." 还有些别的人则说
And other people say, "我上了这个课 但它对我的生活没什么影响"
"well I took the class and it didn't make a difference in my life "这是个很有趣的经历 粉红T恤之类的"
It was a fun experience at times- the pink shirt and others. "但对我的生活没有造成实质而持久的影响"
But it didn't make a real lasting difference in my life." 在每种...几乎所有 并不是所有 但大多数情况下
In every...almost all- not in all cases,but in almost all cases, 这是因为这改变并不是与态度改变
it's because it wasn't behavioral change associated 或与内在的理解和认知
with the attitudinal change or with the insides 相关联的行为改变
or understandings or recognition. 一定会存在着行动偏向
There has to be a bias for action. 关于行动偏向 举几个例子
And that bias for action- just name a few examples: 为了增加自信 我们得冒险
to increase confidence- we do it by taking risks, 而不是说一下 或者想一下
not by talking and thinking about, 或者站在镜子前对自己说
or standing in front of the mirror and say to myself: "我非常自信 我有自尊"
"I have a lot of confidence.I have self-esteem. "我很棒 很好 很伟大" 这都不够
I'm great.I'm terrific.I'm gorgeous." Not enough. 我们如何在生活中减轻压力
How do we reduce stress in our lives? 下周我们会讲这个
And we'll talk about it next week. 简单点说 就是少做点事 而不是多做点
By simplifying,by doing less rather than more. 我们会讲到为什么少做点事其实
We'll talk about how actually doing less at times 不仅会带来更多的幸福感
doesn't just lead to more happiness, 也会带来更大的成功
it also leads to more success, 更多创造力 以及生产力
more creativity as well as productivity. 但我们不能在理论上减少压力
But we can't reduce the stress in theory. 要借由感恩走出阴影
Chipping away through the gratefulness, 创造更多积极的渠道
creating more positive channels, 逐渐成为积极者
becoming more of a benefit finder over time. 这需要时间 不是一夜之间的事
It takes time.Doesn't happen overnight. 但好的一面是 当我们害怕时
The nice thing though is that when we are afraid, 当我们觉得难以采取特定行动时
when we think it's too much for us to take certain action, 我们可以运用内部模拟器
we can use our internal simulator. 还记得吧 大脑是无法分辨
Remember the mind doesn't know the difference 真实和假想的东西的
between the real thing and the imaginary thing? 如果我们想象某物 用认知行为治疗的话来说
And if we imagine something,if we are in the CBT language, 在我们受到刺激时
if we engage in exposure, 不管是通过想象还是实际行为
either through the imagination or through actual action, 如果我们受到刺激 久而久之 我们就会变得自信
when we engage in exposure,over time,we become confident, 就像我告诉你们的一样 为讲座做准备
which as I told you,what I do,preparing for lectures, 看到我自己 在我的脑海中进行这件事
seeing myself,doing it in my mind's eye, 我的大脑并不知道在真实和想象之间
and the mind doesn't know the difference, 有什么区别
in the real and in the imagined. 逐渐地我们就变得更自信了
And overtime,we'll become more confident. 这是个好的开始 但这不够
It's a good start.It's not enough. 但很显然是很实用
But certainly goes hand in hand 也很有益的 可供尝试和探索的方法
and a very useful technique to explore and to try. 这些都很好理解
So all this is well and good. 我想你们有些人肯定在想
I'm sure some of you are thinking about, 事实上上节课后有些人
and actually some came after class last time 来找我谈过 说
and talked to me about it and said, "我们知道行动很重要 但有个问题"
"OK,so we know action is important,but there is a problem. "问题在于我 或者许多人都没有"
And the problem is that I don't or many people don't have "足够的自律来完成这个行动"
enough discipline to engage in this action, "来保证每周跑三次或者五次步"
to get out and run three times or five times a week. "我们很懒"
We are lazy. "玩游戏更有意思一些"
It's much more fun playing with our Nintendo "相比于做一小时瑜伽 至少一开始是这样"
than going and doing yoga for an hour,at least initially. "所以我没有足够的自律性来改变"
So I don't have enough discipline for change. 我想让你们快速地举个手 说实话
I just want a quick show of hands.Be honest. 举起手来 如果你相信
Put up your hand if you believe that 假使你能更自律
if you had more self-discipline- 现在你们可能非常自律
now you may have a lot of self-discipline 也可能很不自律
or very little self-discipline, 但假使你能更自律
but if you had more self-discipline, 你就可以更幸福或更成功
you could potentially be happier and/or more successful. 假使你能更自律 说实话
If you had more self-discipline? Be honest. 我的手可是举得很高的
I mean my hand is very much up. 好 大多数人都这么觉得
OK,so it's most people think that. 我有一个好消息和一个坏消息要告诉你们
So I have good news for you and bad news for you. 从坏消息开始吧
I'll start with the bad, 因为我喜欢积极的结尾
because I'd like to finish on the positive. 那么坏消息是
So the bad news is 你们不会获得更多的自律
you aren't going to get any more self-discipline. 你现在拥有的就将是全部
What you have is what you got and what you will get. 就是这样 抱歉 真倒霉
That's it.Sorry.Tough luck. 大多数人 绝大多数的人
Most people,most people,overwhelmingly majority of people 认为他们需要并且想要更加自律
think they need or want more self-discipline 认为他们现有的自律不够
and believe that they don't have enough. 大多数
And most, 几乎所有人都无法得到更多自律性
just about all people cannot get any more self-discipline. 事实就是这样 这就是坏消息
Nature.That's it.So that's the bad news. 好消息是 更多的自律事实上并不重要
The good news: it's actually not that important, 不管是对于成功或是幸福感
neither for success,nor for happiness. 就用你现在已有的自律性 你也可以
You can be more successful and happier with the self-discipline 变得更成功 更幸福
that you currently have. 怎么做呢 如果你把注意力从依靠自律性
How? If you change your focus from relying on self-discipline 来获得改变 转到引入例行公事上来
for bringing about change to introducing rituals. 将你的注意力从自律转向例行公事
Changing your focus from self-discipline to rituals. 我接下来要讲的一个理念
I am going to talk about an idea now that is part of... 完整的叙述来自于
that is talked about in greater length Jim Loehr和Tony Schwartz所著的《精力管理》
in The Power of Full Engagement by Jim Loehr and Tony Schwartz. 一本非常非常好的书
An excellent,excellent book. 他们所说的本质上是一种思维转换
And what they are talking about is essentially a paradigm shift. 思维转换
A paradigm shift, 就是我们要停止试图得到更多的自律
where we need to stop trying to get more self-discipline, 因为自律本身对于成功 对于幸福
because that,in and of itself is not enough for success, 对于改变来说是不够的
for well-being,for change. 正是由于人们依赖于自律来获得改变
And it's because people rely on self-discipline for change. 这就是为什么
That is the reason why 许多组织及个人的尝试改变的努力失败了
most organizational as well as individual change efforts fail. 让我和你们分享一个有趣的研究吧
So let me share with you a fun study. 这个研究是Roy Baumeister做的
This was done by Roy Baumeister, 二十世纪以及二十一世纪初最卓越的
one of the leading social psychologists of the 20th 社会心理学家之一
and the beginning of the 21st century. 非常伟大的研究者 他所做的研究如下
Great researcher.Here was what he did. 他逐个把一组人带进来
He brought in a group of people individually. 于是那个人来进行试验
So the person walks into the experiment. 然后同样告诉他们 "你得在这个房间等候
And they are told,once again,"you have to wait in this room, 在这个等候室里等待实验开始"
waiting room for the experiment to start. 于是那个人坐下来
So the person sits down. 在他旁边有张桌子
There is a table right next to that person. 桌上放了一个碗
And on the table,there's a bowl. 碗里装着刚烤好的巧克力脆饼
And in the bowl,there are freshly baked chocolate chip cookies. 新鲜出炉的那种
Just came out of the oven. 芳香萦绕在空气里
Smell the aroma,engulfing them. 就像动画片里画的 飘进他们的鼻子里
You know like those cartoons,going into their nose. 无比的香味
Phenomenal smell. 他们就坐在那儿
They are sitting there, 正挨着装巧克力脆饼的碗
next to the chocolate chip cookies that are in a bowl. 试验者然后说
The experimenter puts and says, "我会在约十分钟后回来叫你去参加试验"
"I'll come and pick you about 10 minutes for the experiment." 他们走出去 出去之前对受试者说
They walk out.And as they are walking out,they tell them, "顺便提一下 这些巧克力脆饼"
"oh just by the way,these chocolate chip cookies, "是为下一个试验所准备的"
they are for the next experiment. "所以如果你不介意的话 最好不要动它"
So if you don't mind,don't touch them." 于是你就坐在那儿 非常渴望
So you are sitting there,almost dying, 但就是不能碰它
but you are not touching it. 十分钟之后
And ten minutes later, 试验者确实回来了 带你去参加试验
the experimenter does come in,takes you to the experiment. 这个试验非常难
The experiment is very difficult. 你要进行非常非常难的测试
Very difficult.Very difficult test that you need to take. 大多数人都无法通过这个测试
A test that most people don't solve 并且这需要大量的坚持和努力
and requires a lot of perseverance and hard work. 但大多数人
But most people, 即使拥有坚持和努力也没法通过
even with perseverance and hard work do not solve it. 所以评估结果时
So the outcome measure, 研究者感兴趣的是
what the researcher is interested in is mostly 在放弃测试前 你坚持了多久
how much did you persevere before giving up on that test. 在放弃测试前 你坚持了多久
How much did you persevere before giving up on that test? 这才是对结果的评估 才是因变量
That was the outcome measure,the dependent variable. 第二组随机挑选的人 进入同样的房间
Second group,randomly picked,come into the same room, 坐在同一把椅子上 旁边桌上放着相同的碗
sitting on the same chair,have the same bowl on the table. 但里面装的不是巧克力脆饼
But instead of chocolate chip cookies, 而是甜菜根
what they have in the bowl are red beetroots. 刚烤好 新鲜出炉
Freshly baked.Just came out of the oven. 他们就坐在那儿
And they are sitting there. 然后试验者正要走出去 说
And the experimenter is about to walk out,says, "还有一件事"
"just one more thing. "如果你不介意的话 别碰这些甜菜根"
If you don't mind,don't touch those beetroots. "这是为了下一个试验准备的" 好
They are for the next experiment." OK.Fine. 你坐在那儿坐了十分钟
So you are sitting there for 10 minutes. 十分钟后 试验者进来了
10 minutes later,the experimenter comes in, 带你去参加"真正的"试验
takes you to the "real" experiment. 你坐下来做了跟之前那个一模一样的测试
Sitting down,you take the exact same test. 完全一样的谜题
The exact same puzzle. 然后再次看看 放弃测试之前你能坚持多久
And once again,how long will you persevere before giving up? 你们自己想一下
Think about for yourself for a second. 你们觉得哪一组能坚持得久一些
Who do you think persevered more? 巧克力脆饼组还是甜菜根组
The chocolate chip cookies group? Or the beetroots group? 你们自己想一下
Think for yourself for a second. 顺便说一下 我在回答这个问题时猜错了
By the way,I guessed wrong when I answered this question.OK. 有一组显著地坚持得更久 显著地更久
Significantly more perseverance- significantly more, 而不是细微差别
wasn't close- 甜菜根那组显著地坚持得更久
the group that had the beetroots persevered a lot more. 为什么 当时我也不理解
Why? I wouldn't understand. 这个机制...
The mechanism- 他还做了些其他试验来解释这个机制
and he did some more experiment to explain the mechanism. 这是因为巧克力脆饼组
It's because the chocolate chip cookie group 已经用了自律来阻止自己动饼干
had used self-discipline not to touch the cookies, 虽然他们十分想碰它
though (inaudible) they really wanted to touch it. 但他们不能碰 所以他们已经用了那份自律了
But they couldn't.So they used their quota of self-discipline. 等他们去参加"真正的"试验时
And when they went into the "real" experiment, 他们就几乎不剩什么自律了
what happened was that they had little or no self-discipline left 而那个迷宫 那个试验
And that,that maze,that experiment, 那个测试需要大量的自律
that test required a lot of self-discipline. 这个研究所要告诉我们的是
The point of this study is 我们都只有有限量的自律
we all have limited amount of self-discipline. 问题在于我们将它用在了哪里
And the question is what do we used it on. 再问你们个问题
Another question for you. 在座有多少人
How many people here have, 确实制订过新年计划的?
those of you who did set new year resolutions? 如果你们完成了每一个为自己
Put your hand up if you fulfilled every single one 制订的新年计划的 请举手
of the new year's resolutions that you ever set for yourself. 举起手来
Put your hand up. 每一个新年计划
Every single new year's resolution, 如果你确实制订过的话
if you did set new year resolutions. 请举高点 好吧 我显然没有
A bit higher,please.Well,I certainly didn't. 我还想问个问题
But here's another question for you. 在座有多少人... 这个问题很重要
How many people here...this is an important question, 所以如果你的答案是肯定的 一定要举手
so please,please put your hand up if the answer is affirmative. 在座有多少人今天早上刷了牙
How many people here brush their teeth this morning? 举高你们的手 很高兴看到这个结果
Put your hand up high.Phew! I'm glad to see this. 你们可以课后找我聊聊
You can all talk to me after,real close. 让我来想像一下今早上的场景吧
So let me just imagine what happened this morning,this scenario. 你早上起床 十分疲倦
So you got up in the morning.You were tired. 然后你对自己说
And then you said to yourself, "好 就是今天 就是今天"
"OK,today is the day.Today is the day. "我要去做 我今天早上要刷牙"
I am going to do it! I am going to brush my teeth this morning!" 对吗 你起床后真正给你动力的
Right? And to really motivate you as you got out of bed : 我就来了 我就来刷牙了
Here I come now! I mean,here I come to brush... 你也刷牙对吧 就是今天
And you brush your teeth,right? Today is the day! 因为今天我要上课 我要刷牙
Because I have 1504! I'm going to brush my teeth! 不 当然不是这样
Yes! No,of course not. 你滚下床 几乎睁不开眼
You know,you rolled off the bed- you know,barely alive. 你可能都不记得你刷了牙
You probably don't remember you brushed your teeth, 因为你还是像梦游一样
because you were asleep still. 为什么 为什么所有人
You know why? Why did everyone, 我觉得所有人今天早上都刷了牙
I think,I hope everyone brush their teeth this morning, 而没有人 六百个学生里没有一个
whereas no one,no one person out of more than 600 students 实现了他们的新年计划 为什么
fulfilled their new year's resolutions? Why? 因为新年计划依赖于自律
Because new year resolutions rely on self-discipline. 而刷牙是例行公事
Brushing our teeth relies on a ritual. 我们每天都做 几乎是自动的
We do it everyday.It's automatic. 这就是例行公事 我们都知道刷牙很重要
Now there are rituals- we know brushing our teeth is important. 如果不刷牙别人就不会跟我们说话
People won't talk to us if we don't. 但我们也知道锻炼很重要
But we also know that physical exercise is very important. 而世界上许多人
And yet most people in the world, 不是就哈佛来说 而是整个世界
not at Harvard,but in the world, 不做锻炼 并为此付出了很大的代价
don't do physical exercise and pay very high price for it. 我经常感到惊讶
You know it always amazed me 当别人夸我有不可思议的自律时
when people used to comment on my incredible self-discipline 那时我还是个壁球运动员
when I was a squash player. 这经常让我很惊讶
It always amazed me 因为我不觉得我是一个有自律的人
because I don't see myself as a person with self-discipline. 我们家是没有巧克力脆饼的
You know we don't have chocolate chip cookies at home. 即使有也会被Tommy藏起来
And if we do,Tommy hides them. 因为如果有 它们两分钟后就会消失
Because if there were,they would disappear two minutes later. 在这些方面我的自律为零
Zero self-discipline when it comes to these things. 但对于壁球 我确实... 人们觉得
And yet,with squash,I did have,well people thought 我也这么觉得了好多年 ---我很自律
and what I thought for many years- self-discipline. 因为我早上很早起床去跑步
Because I would get up in the morning and go for my run. 然后去学校 放学之后直接去球场
I would then go to school and after school,straight to the court 和教练进行训练 常规训练
have a session with my coach- regular session with my coach, 然后打比赛 然后如你所见
then play games,matches,and then as you can see, 去健身房健身
went to the gym and worked out. 每一天都是这样
Every single day. 然后回家 做作业 上床睡觉
And I went home,did my homework and went to bed. 这是例行公事 这正是运动员所做的 例行公事
It was a ritual.That is what athletes do: they have rituals, 所以他们才能保持
which is why they are able to maintain 从外界看来似乎是很高水平的自律
what seems from the outside,such high levels of discipline, 有时甚至是非常人的
at times superhuman's. 但不是这样 这些是例行公事
It's not.It's rituals. Jim Loehr和Tony Schwartz说
Jim Loehr and Tony Schwartz: "建立例行公事需要定义精确的行为"
"Building rituals requires defining very precise behaviors "并在特定的时间执行它们"
and performing them at very specific times — "以深深扎根的价值观为动力"
motivated by deeply held values." 举一些个人例子
Let me give you some personal examples. 锻炼 深深扎根在我心中的价值观
Physical exercise deeply held value for me. 一直都是 尤其现在我知道了这个研究
Has always been,and especially now when I know the research, 关于锻炼的数据
the data on physical exercise. 所以我有件例行公事
So I have a ritual: 每周跑三次步 每次30到40分钟
three times a week,for 30 and 40 minutes,I run. 之后我就做伸展练习
After that,after that,do my stretching. 我知道瑜伽和冥想对我有多重要
I know how important yoga and meditation is for me. 这对我来说是例行公事
I have a ritual and I do it. 早上醒来第一件事 深呼吸几次
First thing when I wake up in the morning,a few deep breaths- 假期回来后我们会更详细地讲到
We'll talk about it more after break. 这是例行公事
It's a ritual. 我每次来讲课
Every time when I teach here, 每次站在观众前面之前 我都会去跑步
every time when I get up in front of the audience,I run before. 今天早上我跑了步
This morning,I ran. 周二时我加倍努力地跑
On Tuesday,I ran twice as hard. 为什么 因为这可以缓解压力 这能帮助我
Why? Because it releases anxiety.It helps me. 总体来说是这样 对于教这堂课则更是
Globally,generally and specifically for the class. 我还有个很重要的价值观 我和我妻子的关系
Another very important value for me: my wife- our relationship. 看到这电影了吗 《全民情敌》 很好看的电影
See the movie? Hitch? Fantastic movie. 这对我来说非常重要
It's a very important value for me. 因此我和我妻子有例行公事
And therefore,my wife and I have rituals. 每周例行的两次约会
And we have two ritual dates a week. 当别人听说这个时 他们说
Now when people hear it,they say, "拜托 那爱的真情流露呢"
"Come on! where is the spontaneity of love?" 对于我们在约会中所做的事
Well,there is a lot of spontaneity in terms of 确实有自发的真情流露
what we do during these dates. 但约会的时间次数是定好的
But the dates are set in stone. 如果我或我妻子出差旅游
And if I'm travelling or my wife is travelling, 错过了约会 那我们就之后再补上
we miss the date,we make up for it after. 为什么 因为如果没有这件例行公事
Why? Because if we didn't have this ritual, 我们就不是每周而是每十年两次约会了
then we have two dates a decade,as opposed to a week. 我们共有的价值观就是我们的爱情
And a deeply held value for both of us is our relationship. 在现代社会
In our modern world, 我们的时代中有许多相互冲突的需求
there are so many conflicting demands in our time. 例行公事不但很重要 它们也是必需的
Rituals are not just important- they are absolutely necessary. 如果我们要做对我们重要的
If we are to do the things that are important for us, 我们所关心的事
that we care about. 别的例行公事的例子 写感谢信
Other examples of rituals: writing a thank you note. 每周一次 每月一次 去拜访别人
Once a week,once a month.Making a gratitude visit. 每月一次 或者每两个月一次
Once a month,once a month,once every two months. 把感恩变成一件日常的事
Doing the gratitude exercise on a daily basis. 这些是我们可以建立的例行公事
These are rituals that we can introduce 并且确实有很重要的影响
and can actually make an important difference. 我们也有例行的全家一起吃的晚餐
We also have ritual dinners with the family as a whole. 每个安息日晚餐 周五的晚餐
So every shabbat dinner,Friday night dinner, 都要全家人一起吃
we have together with the family. 这是件例行公事 是件很好的例行公事
It's a ritual.It's a wonderful ritual. 每周我们都能聚一聚
During the week,we also have dates when we are together, 因为家庭对我们来说是重要的价值观
because family is an important value to us. 有时 比如说
Now sometimes,for example, 因为旅行或者别的原因 打破了例行公事
because of travel or other reasons,rituals are broken. 那就之后再补上
Then you can make up for it later. 还有一些反面的例行公事
They can also be negative rituals. 三个小时不查邮箱
Three hour of not checking email. 我知道这很难 但这是很重要的例行公事
I know it's hard.But it's an important ritual. 我们会讲到总是查邮件的影响
And we'll talk about the effect of having our email on constantly 因为当我们持续和技术相连时
Because when we are constantly connected to technology, 就经常会与生活中重要的事脱节
we are often disconnected from the important things in our lives. 假期回来后我们会讲这个
We'll talk about that after break. 例行公事 建立例行公事
Rituals.Introduce rituals. 人们听到例行公事时的
One of the fears that people have 恐惧之一在于 他们会说
when they hear about rituals is they say "这会降低我的生产力"
"well that will take away from my productivity. "就算不降低生产力 也会降低创造力" 并不是这样
And if not productivity,creativity." Not so. 事实恰好相反
In fact,the exact opposite is the case. 如果看看... 这是个历史性的研究
If you look,- yeah,this is a historical research- 如果看看那些伟大的艺术家 不管是作家
if you look at all the great artists,whether it's writers, 海明威 或者是达芬奇
the Hemingways,whether it's the Davincis- 他们生活中都有例行公事
they had a ritual in their life. 这例行公事就是 比方说
And the ritual was,for example, "早上七点到十点 不论如何我都要写作"
"from 7 to 10 am in the morning,I write,no matter what", "晚上六点到十点 如果我习惯在夜里工作 我要画画"
"6 to 10 at night- if I am more of a night person,I paint". 他们有例行公事
They had rituals.And 而正是因为这些例行公事 他们才能创造
it's because of these rituals that they were able to be creative. 因为那样他们就能专注于主题
Because then they could think about their subject materials 而不是万千使他们分心的事物
as opposed to million other things: "也许我该干点别的"
"Well,maybe I should be doing something else "有些让我分心的东西" 不 有例行公事在
and there are other distractions"- no! There was a ritual. 我现在就该干这个
That's what I did now. 几乎无意识地就去做了 就像我们刷牙一样
Almost mindless getting there- just like we brush our teeth. 但一旦他们开始专注 就有了空间
But when they were there,there were space, 有了创造的空间
openness to be creative. 现在关键在于花时间来建立例行公事
Now the key is to give yourself time to create the ritual. 你可以看到 保持例行公事
You see,maintaining a ritual, 需要一定的自律 但并不多
requires some self-discipline,but not a lot. 建立例行公事需要大量自律
Creating a ritual requires a lot of self-discipline. 因为我们时常会回到旧习惯
Once again,because we go back to our old habits. 做个快速练习吧
Let's do a quick exercise. 抱起你们的双臂进行交叠
So I want you to just take your hands and just fold them. 交叠一会儿
Fold your hands for a minute. 好了 继续交叠双手 不过这次
Alright.Now continue folding your hands- only this time, 用不同的方式
in the opposite direction, 也就是这只手换到下面 这只换到上面
meaning this hand below and this hand above. 对 对
Yeah.Yeah. 我可以看到男生都不太懂
I see especially the men are not really getting it. 不过没关系
But it's OK. 感觉如何 不是很舒服对吧
Now how does that feel? Not comfortable right? 但这只是非常简单的一件事
Now this is such a simple movement. 交叠双手
You know,folding hands! 我们仍然能感觉到很不舒服 有点不对劲
And yet we feel very uncomfortable- something is wrong here. 我们想回到原来交叉双手的方式
And we want to go back to our folding before. 舒服多了
Much more comfortable. 我们塑造习惯 习惯反过来塑造我们
We first make our habits and then our habits make us.OK. 所以关键在于
So the key is, 我们这还只是做了很小的改变 -交叠双手
here we are talking about a very simple change- folding hands. 那要改变那些我们养成了许多年
How much more difficult is it 对我们的生活更重要的习惯
when we have had habits that we cultivated for many years 会有多么难呢
and are much more significant in our lives? 要改变它们非常困难 这需要时间
Very difficult to go...to change them.It takes time. William James 我之前提到过
William James,as I mentioned before, 说改变习惯需要21天
says it takes 21 days to change a habit. Loehr和Schwartz在他们的《精力管理》一书中
Loehr and Schwartz in their book,The Power of Full Engagement, 说需要三十天
talk about 30 days to change it. 当然要看要改变的习惯是什么
And of course it depends on what habit. 给自己三十天开始学会感恩
So give ourselves 30 days to start the gratitude. 给自己三十天
Give ourselves 30 days 来建立经常锻炼的例行公事
to build the new ritual of exercising regularly. 关键在于
And the key is 每三十天内不要建立超过两件例行公事
to give yourself no more than one or two rituals each 30 days. 为什么 因为正如我们之前说的
Why? Because as we mentioned earlier, 建立例行公事需要大量自律
it takes a lot of self-discipline to create a ritual 而我们的自律是有限的
and we don't have much self-discipline, 这也就是为什么我们今天列出十项
which is why when we have a list of 10 changes that 想要做出的改变 但最终什么也没变
we want to introduce in our lives today,we end up doing none. 最终什么也没变
We end up doing none. 因为我们过度消耗了自律
Because we are over-extending our self-discipline 最终崩溃了
and we break down. 开始一件例行公事需要大量自律
It takes a lot of discipline to start a ritual, 但一旦开始 当一个月后它已成为习惯
but once we start it,after a month when it's habituated, 已经铭心刻骨 神经通路已经建立时
when it's grooved in,when the neural pathway has begun to form, 我们就可以建立下一件例行公事了
then we can move onto the next ritual and introduce it, 如果准备好了的话
if we are ready. 不要超过两个 最好是一个
No more than two.Ideally one ritual. 下周你们交的论文中
Next week in your response paper, 就要选择一样例行公事
you are going to choose a ritual, 这个月的两件
two rituals for this month that hopefully you will, 你们可以写一下
you will also introduce. 因为没有行为变化 也就不会有改变
Because there cannot be change without behavioral change. Loehr和Schwartz说
Loehr and Schwartz: "逐步的改变好过雄心勃勃的失败"
"Incremental change is better than ambitious failure. "成功建立在成功之上" 可以从个人水平上看到
Success feeds on itself." We see it on individual level. 可以在组织水平上看到
We see it on organizational level. 商学院的John Carter做了很多努力
John Carter from the business school does a lot of work on change 来改变领导层的架构
in organizations in the realm of leadership. 他经常说你需要小的成功
What he talks about a lot is how you need small successes 然后逐渐积累成最终的成功
and then build them these successess. 达赖喇嘛说"唯有长期坚持和熟悉"
The Dalai Lama:"There isn't anything that isn't made easier "方能使事情变得容易"
through constant familiarity and training. "通过训练我们可以改变 可以重塑自我"
Through training we can change; we can transform ourselves." 	 你们知道
You know, 我还在读大学时发生过一件事
one thing that happened to me when I was an undergraduate. 是在我大二的那年
It happened in my sophomore year. 我没有... 我当时在校队
I didn't...I played at the Varsity team. 没有在赛季里有很好的表现
Didn't have a good season. 我的大二简直一塌糊涂 还受伤了
My sophomore year was burned out- got injured. 我迫不及待地等三月一日
And couldn't wait for the 1st of March. 三月一日是...有时是三月二日
March 1 is the last,and March 2 sometimes, 是赛季的最后一天
is the last day of the season. 我迫不及待等那一天是因为那之后
And I couldn't wait,because after that 我就可以不打壁球 专心学习了
I could stop playing squash and focus on my studies. 我就可以做很多事 因为打壁球时
Then I could get a lot of work done- because with squash, 在球场上每天都要训练
we were at the courts,you know trained physically for two hours 两到三小时
but total three hours a day. 周末我们经常要外出或在这里打比赛
Weekends- we were travelling mostly or had matches at home. 早上 每周至少两个早晨
Mornings- at least two mornings a week 我们要健身或者举重
we were lifting weights or in the gym. 这很难捱 积了一大堆作业
So it was rough.A lot of work 我等不及获得没有壁球的自由
and I said I can't wait to have the freedom without squash, 尤其是当时我还不是那么爱打壁球
especially giving that I wasn't enjoying that much at that point. 等不及不再打壁球 专注于我的学习
Can't wait.Not to do anymore and just to focus on my classes. 追上阅读 写作之类的进度
Catch up on all the readings and writings and stuff. 三月一号到来了 我彻底不再打球
March 1 came.I stopped playing completely. 但与高效学习相反
And instead of becoming more productive. 我反而效率变低很多
I became far less productive. 我看到你们很多人点头
Now I see a lot of you nodding. 运动员们肯定都有同感
The athletes know what I am talking about. 为什么 我的效率取决于什么
Why? Why did I become more,or rather less productive? 拖延 哇! 突然升高
Procrastination- wow! Skyrocketed. 为什么 因为许多年来大家都跟我说
Why? Because for years I've been told 我是一个自律的人
I'm a person with self-discipline. 而我也开始相信这一点
And I started to believe it. 对 我确实很自律
Yeah,I have a lot of self-discipline. 看看我 我刻苦地训练 训练
Look at me! I trained so hard.I worked,you know, 每天像杂耍一样地训练六个小时
when I played on the circus six hours a day. 那可是非常的自律啊
That's a lot of self-discipline! 然而突然间 壁球赛季结束了
And suddenly,the squash season ended. 我说"好吧 看看这自律的作用吧!"
And I said,"alright,let's see this discipline at work!" 但我却什么也没做成
And I wasn't getting any work done. 为什么 因为我的例行公事被打破了
Why? Because I gave up my rituals. 在赛季中 你们那些
You see,during the season,those of you 在校队的 或是投身于音乐或社团的就知道
who played varsity or very involved in music or club know that- 当你在特定组织里投入很多时
when you are investing a lot in a certain organization, 你的时间必须例行化
your time has to be ritualized. 那样你就知道你在什么时候该训练 或学习
So you know you are in practice then or you are ? 或者什么时候该开会
in these hours,or you are having meetings at these hours. 那之后你就回去学习
And after that you have to go back and work. 因为你只有两个小时
Because you only have two hours to do. 而你又想睡个还算安稳的觉
And you want to get an OK night sleep. 你有这样的例行日程 就会高效并具有创造力
You have rituals.And you are productive and you are creative. 突然之间这些例行公事都消失了
And suddenly the rituals go away. 你说"好了 现在我要更努力学习了"
You said,"OK now I'm gonna work more". 但恰好相反的事出现了 因为我们只有有限的...
The exact opposite happens.Because we have a limited amount... 直到我意识到
It was only when I came to terms of fact 我的自律是有限的 这个事实之后
that I have a limits amount of self-discipline. 直到我明白人类本性...
It's only when I came to terms with the human nature- 本性就应该被遵循
nature should be commanded must be obeyed. 那时我才真正开始变得高效率
It was only then that I actually became productive. 因为那之后我又建立了新的例行公事
Because I created new rituals in my life after that. 例行公事 非常重要且有意义
Rituals- very important and significant. 做出持久改变的唯一方法
The only way for lasting change. 现在来谈谈认知吧 首字母C的这个词
Let me talk about cognition now.The C. 我们已经谈过情感 也谈过行为
So we talked about affect- the emotions; we talked about behavior 谈过它有多重要 既是剧烈的也是逐渐的
how important that is both acute and gradual. 接下来让我们来谈谈认知
Let's talk about cognition. 再次谈谈认知重建
We'll talk again about cognitive reconstruction 也是造成改变的渐进方式
which is the gradual way of bringing about change. 然后我们再谈谈造成改变的快捷方式
And then we'll talk about the fast way of bringing about change, 也就是"有了!"的体验 灵光乍现的一刻
which is the Eureka experience,the ah ha moment. 首先 认知重建
So first,cognitive reconstruction. 正如之前说过的 诠释是一种神经通路
As we mentioned before,an interpretation is a neural pathway. 如果我像个消极者一样诠释世界
If I interpret the world as a fault finder, 我大脑里的神经通路就会是消极的
the fortified neural pathway in my brain are the negative ones, 生活中的体验
these in experience 我就会消极地进行诠释
and I go immediately to the negative interpretation 然后随时间不断加强
and that gets reinforced over time. 如果我是个积极者 对相同的经历
If I'm a merit finder,I would look the exact same experiences 就会有非常不同的诠释
and interpret them very differently. 因为我大脑中的神经通路就非常不同
Because I have very different neural pathways in the brain. 当然了
Of course, 我们如何诠释经历是有不同结果的
there are consequences to how we interpret our experiences. 不一定会有最好的结果
Not necessarily that things happen for the best, 但作为积极者 抱歉我换了个说法
but as a merit,as a benefit finder- sorry,I change that. 作为积极者 更能看到
As a benefit finder,looking more at the, 每段人生经历中积极的方面
at the positive with each experience. 回忆一下同卵双胞胎的研究
Now remember the study on the identical twins 以及其中基因到底有多大影响
and how much genes actually matter. 那只能解释55%的差异
That only account for 55% of the variance. 这是很多心理学入门教材中会提到的故事
So here is the story that's told in many intro to psych textbooks 是关于双胞胎 在同个家庭中长大
And it's about twins who were raised in a same home 他们的父亲对他们及其妻子都很暴力
and their father was abusive toward them,toward their mother. 他经常酗酒 吸毒
He was very often drunk,very often on drugs, 非常非常可怕的童年 所能想到的最悲惨的童年
and really an awful,awful childhood- the worst you can imagine. 这对双胞胎与父亲一起在这个家庭中长大
And these twins grow up in that home with that father. 然后他们离开了 离开家
And they go off.They leave their home, 从这个家里逃出去 然后到了三十岁
run away from home later on in life and they reach the age of 30. 在他们三十岁时 一个正在
And then at the age of 30,a psychologist 对双胞胎进行研究的心理学家拜访了他们
who is doing research on twins goes and visits them. 他先去找了双胞胎里的第一个
And he goes to the first twin. 他看到的是 这个孩子结婚了
And what he sees there: the twin is in a relationship. 虐待家人 经常酗酒 吸毒
He's abusing his family,very often drunk,very often on drugs. 然后心理学家终于找到他
Then the psychologist is able to find him in 有那么一刻清醒着 然后跟他说
a moment of soberness and says to the twin, "怎么了 你在干什么 发生了什么"
"what's going on? What are you doing? What's happening here?" 那个孩子知道
And the twin who knows 这心理学家在做关于基因的作用
that the psychologist is doing research on the effect of genes 以及成长环境的作用的研究 他说"你认识我父亲"
and the effect of upbringing,says,"you know my father. "你知道我经历了怎样的童年"
You know the kind of childhood that I endured. "你还想让我变成怎么样呢"
How do you expect me to be any other way?" 那个知道成长环境的作用的心理学家耸了耸肩
And the psychologist who knows the effect of upbringing shrugs. 然后他去找了双胞胎里的第二个
And then he goes to the second twin. 第二个孩子和第一个孩子正好是
The second twin happens to be at the exact same age 一样的年纪
as the first one. 他去找了第二个孩子 也是三十岁
He goes to the second twin- also 30 years old, 他走进他家 不敢相信自己的眼睛
walks into the house and cannot believe his eyes. 如此和谐 如此平静 如此充满爱
Such peace.Such equanimity.Such love. 充盈在他和他妻子 以及他孩子之间
Between him and his wife,and the kids. 他事业有成 家庭美满
He's doing well in his career,doing well with his family. 他后来过了段时间再去找他 因为这可能只是个巧合
He comes back again after a while- see maybe there was a fluke; 也许他只是装出来的 但不是 这是真的
maybe he's putting on a show,but no- it's the real thing. 事业有成 家庭美满
Phenomenal family life.Phenomenal professional life. 他找到这孩子 难以置信地问"为什么"
And he goes to him and says,in disbelief,"how?" 这个孩子也知道他的研究内容 他说
Now the twin also knows that he's doing research and he says, "什么'为什么' 你认识我父亲的"
"what do you mean 'how'? You know my father. "你知道我是怎么长大的 你知道他对我们做了什么"
You know how I was raised.You know what he did to us. "你还想让我变成怎么样呢"
How do you expect me to be any other way? "我知道他对我们的伤害有多深"
I know how much he hurt us. "你还想让我变成他那样吗"
How do you expect me to be any other way like him?" 同样的经历 同卵双胞胎 同样的基因
Same experiences.Monozygotic twins.Same genes. 迥然相异的诠释 一个延续了
Radically different interpretation: one continuing the hell 他儿时的地狱 另一个则创造了天堂
that he endured as a child; the other creating a heaven. 都是因为诠释的不同
All because of interpretation. 应该怎么做 我别无选择
What do you do with it? Well,I have no choice. 我就是这样长大的
This is the way I was raised. 那就是榜样 被动的受害者说
This is the model- passive victim. 另一个则是 我不要变成这样
The other- I'm not going to be like that. 我不要像我父亲那样 主动的创造者
I'm not going to be like my father- active agent. 这都是因为诠释的不同
So much of it is a matter of interpretation. 快乐 幸福 正如我们之前多次提到的
Happiness,wellbeing,as we mentioned many times before, 并不那么依赖外部的条件
is not so much contingent on external circumstances, 不在于我们的地位
not so much contingent on our status 或是银行账户的状况
or the status of our bank account. 而是在于我们内心的想法
It's contingent on our state of mind. 你们必须记住的是
The thing that you'll remember though is that 很不幸 幸福是没有捷径的
there are no shortcuts unfortunately. 很不幸没有简便的方法
There are no quick fixes unfortunately. 如果有 我保证我会告诉你们的
If there were,I promise you I would've told you. 如果我下周找到条捷径
If I find out next week about a shortcut, 即便是在春假之后 你们一定会收到我的邮件的
even if it's over spring break,you'll get an email from me. 但我不觉得会有的 通常
But I don't think there are.And very often, 寄希望于找到捷径通常导致更多的不快乐
the hope of finding a quick fix leads to more unhappiness. 举几个认知重建的例子
Here are some examples of cognitive reconstruction. 这是由Tomaka进行的研究
This is work done by Tomaka on 关于我们将活动视为挑战还是威胁
whether we perceive activity as a challenge or as a threat. 因为对同一种活动
Because we can perceive the exact same activity 我们可以从认知上重建对其的理解
and cognitively reconstruct our understanding of it. 我给你们举个例子
So let me give you an example. 当我... 被剑桥拒掉之后
When I,after being thrown out of Cambridge, 我当时申请了博士项目
I applied for PHD programs. 这里是我申请的其中一个地方
One of the programs I applied to is here. 我很希望能入选
I was hoping to get in. 我进来之后 我想回来是因为总体来说
And when I got in,I wanted to come back,because overall, 在这里读大学时我挺开心的
I had a very good experience here as an undergrad, 即便有很多困难和困扰
with all the difficulties and hardship, 我仍然很愉快 很想回来
I was glad,wanting to be back. 在我进来之后
And when I got in, 我突然开始有点担心了
you know suddenly I became a little bit concerned. 因为我说
Because I said- 我大学时经历了很多焦虑
you know I experienced a lot of anxiety as an undergrad. 大学时经历了很多焦虑
A lot of anxiety as an undergrad. 我说 我不想再过那样的生活了
And I said,I don't want to relive that again. 也许我应该去点别的地方
Maybe I should go else where. 然后我回过头来 说
And then I turned around and I said, "好吧 哈佛不是对我的冷静心态的威胁"
"OK.Instead of looking at Harvard as a threat,to me,to my calm. "相反我要把它当成一次挑战"
I'm going to look at it as a challenge." 这挑战变得很明确
And my challenge became explicitly- 我在日记里这样写
I mean I wrote it in my journal, 明确地想过并写下来
wrote about it,thought about it explicitly. 我博士的六年里 目标是要保持冷静
My goal over the six years that I got my PHD was to maintain calm 因为我对自己说 "如果我能在哈佛保持冷静"
Because I said to myself,"if I can maintain calm at Harvard, "就可以在任何地方保持冷静"
I can maintain calm anywhere." 然后我朝着这个目标努力 非常努力
And I worked on it.I really worked on it. 这确实变成了挑战 而正是这个改变使我
And it became a challenge and just that change helped me 从在这里的研究生经历获得了更多
get so much more out of my experience here as a graduate student. 即便遇到困难
Even through the hardships, 各种各样的挫折失败 以及焦虑
the generals and the failures,and the anxiety. 但总体来说 还是很好的经历
But overall- a much better experience. 我最近也做了这样的事
Recently I just did it. 有时我刚下课就会去别的地方
So you know,once in a while I travel right after class. 三周前我去了佛罗里达
So three weeks ago,I travelled to Florida. 在那里进行了一次重要的谈话
And I have a very important talk there 是和一家我非常想进的公司
with the company that I really wanted to work with. 那是我的第一次会谈 是我梦寐以求的公司
It was my first event there.Company that I cared about. 我觉得这家公司做的事很不错
And I think it is doing fantastic things around the world 我非常希望能够顺利
and I really want it to do well. 在谈话之前我非常焦虑
And I felt a lot of anxiety before that talk. 然后我对它进行了认知重建
And I cognitively reconstructed it. 我说"好吧 这确实让人很焦虑"
I said,"OK.It's anxiety inducing, "准许自己为人"
permission to be human experience, "把它当成一次挑战"
but let's look at it as a challenge." 我有这么好的机会能和
That I have this wonderful opportunity to speak 这么棒的公司 这么棒的人对话
to such a great company,such wonderful people. 我一定得好好珍惜
I'm going to make the best of it. 将它从威胁转化为挑战 转化为机会
Turned it from a threat into a challenge,into opportunity. 这对我起到了极大的影响
And that made a big difference in my approach to it. 想想你们自己
Think about as in your life. 有没有这样的事 是你要打的一场比赛吗?
What is it? Is it a play you want to try out for? 是你想约出去的人吗 是在公众面前说话吗
Is it someone you want to ask out? Is it speaking up in section? 这有个学心理学1或者
This is a study those 心理学15的同学会学到的研究
who take Psych 1 or Psych 15 have encountered that, 由Schachter和Singer在60年代早期做的
the work of Schachter & Singer,back in early 60s.Today 今天伦理道德委员会肯定不会批准的
it would never be able to get this past the ethics committee. 就像Milgram的研究肯定不会被批准一样
Just like Milgram wouldn't be able to get his study passed. 他们所做的实验如下
Here was what they did. 他们让人们参与实验
So they brought people into the experiment 给他们注射肾上腺素
and injected them with epinephrine. 肾上腺素可以使机体兴奋
Epinephrine arouses the body. 注射肾上腺素
It...shots of adrenaline. 但受试者以为打的只是维生素C
But they thought it was just vitamin C. 他们不知道这是肾上腺素
They didn't know it's epinephrine. 然后他们就坐着
And then they were sitting in the experiment, 等待"真正的"实验
waiting again for the "real" experiment. 他们坐在休息室里
They were sitting in the waiting room. 正当他们等着时
And while they were sitting 试验者要求他们填一份调查问卷
they were asked to fill out a questionnaire. 记住他们刚被注射了肾上腺素
Now remember,they just got a shot of adrenaline, 但他们并不知道被注射了肾上腺素
but they didn't know they got a shot of adrenaline. 于是他们就坐着填调查问卷
So they were sitting,filling in a questionnaire. 在第一种条件下
And in the first condition, 问卷里有很刺激性的题目
the questionnaire had very provocative questions, 可以这样说
to say the least. 比如说 其中有一道是这样的
For example,one of these questions was so "你妈妈和你爸爸结婚前
"how many men did your mom sleep with 和多少男人上过床"
before she got married to your dad?" 这是问卷的其中一道...
That's one of the que...You know 他们的研究放在今天一定不会被批准的
they would never be able to get away with this study today, 但那是在六十年代 所以他们填了调查问卷
but you know,back in the 60s.So they were answering this. 而在他们旁边 旁边有一个同谋者
Now next to them,next to them,there is a confederate- 他们不知道他是实验的一部分
someone who they don't know is part of the study. 而这个人暴跳如雷
And this guy is going ballistic. "他们怎么敢这么问" 非常非常生气
"How dare they" You know...Really getting angry. 于是你也变得很生气
And you get angry too. 你甚至比对照组更加愤怒
And you get even angrier than the control group 对照组经历了同样的事
who went through the exact same thing, 但他们并未注射肾上腺素
except for the fact that they didn't get the injection. 所以受试者看到自己
So what they did was they looked, 看到自己的机体非常兴奋
they saw their bodies is getting very aroused 而他们将这种兴奋诠释为"噢 我一定是太愤怒了"
and they interpreted this arousal as "oh I must be really angry". 而他们确实变得更愤怒了 比原本应该愤怒的程度更高
And they really did get,even angrier than they would have. 对照组也很愤怒
They got angry in the control group as well 但没有那些注射了肾上腺素的那么愤怒
but less angry than those who were injected the epinephrine. 而第二种条件下 同样接受了注射
Now second condition.Also injected. 做了个没有什么刺激性问题的问卷
Had a questionnaire without any provocative questions. 他们旁边也坐了个同谋者
And next to them there was again a confederate, 他们也以为他是来做实验的
whom they thought was also doing the experiment. 这个同谋者偶然发现
And that confederate found by happenstance, 地上有个呼啦圈 然后就开始摇呼啦圈
a hula hoop on the floor and started to shake it. 跳啊摇啊...
You know,dance and... 接着就有点疯狂了 他们很高兴 都在笑
You know it was going crazy- they are happy and laughing. 而刚被注射了肾上腺素的人变得很疯狂
And the person who was just injected epinephrine went wild. 十分欢腾愉悦 比对照组快乐多了
So happy and joyous- much more happy than the control group, 对照组也和摇呼啦圈的人共处一室
who were in the room with a person dancing with a hula hoop, 只是没有注射肾上腺素
but did not get the injection. 也就是说 他把肾上腺素的升高诠释为
In other words,he interpreted the raising in adrenaline "噢 我一定是太开心了" 而他们确实变开心了
"Oh I must be really happy now".And they were really happier. 换句话说 经常都是由于诠释的不同 在这个试验中
In other words,very often it's the interpretation- in this case, 对某种生理症状的诠释 决定了我们的感觉
of a physical symptom that determines what we will feel. 愉悦或愤怒 因为它们非常相似
Joy or anger.Because they are quite similar. 两者都涉及肾上腺素的急剧升高
In both of them,there is an adrenaline rush. 所以我们是怎样把一个情况诠释为兴奋
So how do we interpret a situation as an arousal or, 或者愉悦 或者愤怒的呢?
as euphoria or as anger? 这里还有另一个研究
Here's another study. 是由Lee Ross及他的同事做的
This is done by Lee Ross and his colleagues. 他们邀请大学生... 他来自斯坦福
They asked people,college students- he's from Stanford- 大学生说出他们最慷慨
college students to volunteer their most generous, 最善心的朋友 以及他们最好胜
benevolent friends to name them and their most competitive, 最凶狠的朋友 然后告知他们是谁
cut-throat friends and tell them who they are. 然后他们联系这些人作为实验的一部分
And they contacted them to be part of the study. 他们想知道的是在一个可以选择合作
And what they wanted to see was their behavior in a situation 也可以选择竞争的游戏中 他们的行为是怎样的
in a game where you can cooperate or you can be competitive. 所做的干预是将这些学生
The intervention was that these students, 随机地分为两组
randomly divided into two groups. 在这两组中
And in the two groups, 有被认为很好胜的人
there were people who were deemed very competitive 也有被认为很慷慨大方的人
or people who were deemed very generous and benevolent. 在另一个组中
And in the second group, 也是一样 一半人慷慨大方
same thing- half of the people were very generous and benevolent; 另一半人非常好胜凶狠
half of the people were very,very competitive and cut-throat, 至少他们的朋友是这样觉得的
as perceived by their friends. 第一组要玩一个游戏 这游戏叫做
And in the first group,they got a game and the game was called "社区游戏"
"the community game". 第二组也要玩一模一样的游戏
And the second group got the exact same game,the game 游戏中你可以合作也可以竞争
where you have the opportunity either to cooperate or to compete. 但不叫做社区游戏
But instead of a community game, 即便是一模一样的
even though it was the exact same game, 相反被叫做了"街头游戏"（比较暴力的游戏总称）
it was called "Wall Street game". 他们想看看有多少人会合作
And they wanted to see how many people cooperate versus 有多少人会竞争
how many people compete. 他们也想看看是什么决定了这选择
And they wanted to see what predicts it. 不论这些学生 受试者
Well,whether the kids,the participants, 是被认为合作性或者竞争性的 都和结果没关系
were deemed cooperative or competitive,predicted nothing. 毫无关系 他们是选择竞争还是合作
Nothing.Whether or not they would compete or cooperate. 真正决定一切的是
What predicted everything was whether 他们玩的是"社区游戏"还是"华尔街游戏"
they were in the "community game" or in the "Wall Street game". 如果他们玩的是"社区游戏"
If they were in the "community game", 他们更倾向于合作
they were much more likely to cooperate. 如果他们玩的是"华尔街游戏"
If they were in the "Wall Street game", 不论他们是慷慨善良
whether they were generous,benevolent, 还是好胜凶狠
or cut-throat,competitive, 都会更倾向于凶狠而具竞争性
they were much more likely to be cut-throat and competitive. 换句话说 如何表述一个境况
In other words,how we frame a situation- "社区"或"华尔街" 会起到很大的作用
community,Wall Street- can make all the difference. 威胁 机会 也许也正是如此
Threat,opportunity- maybe the exact same thing. 我们如何表述决定了所有区别
How we frame it can make all the difference. 这个实验是由... (部分丢失)
This is a study done by one...(part missing)...the quest. 一个很重要的问题在于
A very important question which is 我们如何提高志愿者精神 不管在哈佛还是别的地方
how can we raise the level of volunteerism,at Harvard and beyond 她想到的一个很棒的答案就是
And the wonderful answer that she came up with is 使学生们及社会上的人
let's get students as well as people in society at large to 重新审视志愿工作
reframe how we look at volunteering, 不要把它当成义务 我必须做的事
rather than as duty,something I have to do. 为什么不能将它视为一种荣幸呢
Why don't I look at it as a privilege? 我很荣幸能帮助别人 这确实是种荣幸
I have the privilege of helping.And it is a real privilege. 还记得对善良的研究吗
Remember the study on kindness? 幸福的最大来源之一
One of the best interventions for wellbeing. 给予和帮助确实是种荣幸
It is a real privilege to give,to help. 如果人们这样重新审视
And when people reframe this, 他们就会更愿意做志愿者
they are much more likely to volunteer. 这对抚养孩子有意义
This has implications for child rearing. 当然 对教育也有意义
This has implications,of course,for education. 对社会整体有意义
It has implications for society as a whole. 这是我即将深入讨论的一个话题
This is a topic I am going to talk about a lot. 我会花很多时间讨论情感关系
I am going to dedicate much time when we discuss relationships. 不过先简要地提提 这个理解改变了
But just very briefly,this understanding for me transformed, 真的改变了我和我妻子的关系
literally transformed my relationship with my wife. 它改变了
It transformed... 它正在改变我和我朋友的关系
It is transforming my relationship with my friends, 以及我的学生和同事
as well as students and colleagues. 我们卷入一段关系
You see,we go into a relationship. 大多数人觉得情感关系的重要之处在于
Most people think that important thing about relationship 我们可以得到认可 有人能在背后做支柱
is that we are validated,as we get pads on our back. 这在我们的关系中确实是重要的
Now that's important in our relationship. 得到认可很重要 在任何关系中都是如此
Surely important to be validated in any relationship, 不管是师生之间 朋友之间
whether it's with students/teacher,whether it's with friends, 当然也在爱人之间
certainly in romantic relationship. 但是David Schnarch想说的是
However,what David Schnarch talks about is that primarily 如果我们想要长期的 成功的 健康的
if we want long-term,successful,thriving, 有激情的关系 那首要目标
passionate relationships,the first objective, 最基本的目标是通过关系被了解
the primary objective is to go into relationship to be known. 被了解 而不是得到认可
To be known,rather than to be validated, 也就是说 你想着
meaning going in there and saying "我的伙伴如何才能更了解我呢"
"OK so how can my partner get to know me even better?" 当然了 要循序渐进
Doing it gradually of course. 在第一次约会上 你肯定不会想说出所有秘密
On the first date,you don't want to reveal all your secrets. 循序渐进
Doing it gradually. 想着这一点 慢慢地敞开心扉
You know,thinking about it,but opening up more and more. 能够逐渐逐渐敞开心扉的夫妇更能够
And couples who over time open up more and more are able to 维持他们的关系以及激情
sustain the relationship as well as their passion,over time. 我还会就此讲得更多
And again,I am going to talk about much more... 我会用至少两节课来讲情感关系
I am going to devote two classes at least to relationships. 这将是
This is going to be 成功的长期关系的中流砥柱之一
one of the central pillars of successful long-term relationships. 对于学生 也是一样适用
Also with the students,the same applies. 我刚开始教书时
You know when I initially started to teach, 我非常希望得到学生的认可
I really wanted the validation from the students. 我如何能使学生觉得我是个好老师呢
So how can I have my students perceive me as a good teacher? 我希望他们喜欢我
I want them to like me. 这对每个人来说都很重要
And you know,that's important for everyone. 我们都希望被喜欢
We all like to be liked. 但当我转换注意力 对
However,when I switched my focus- and yeah, 我仍然希望被喜欢
I still want to be liked- 但我主要的注意力在于我希望学生了解我
but my main focus is I want my students to know me. 我希望他们了解我对这世界
I want them to know the topic 最有兴趣和激情的事物
that I'm most passionate about in the world. 这确实改变了我很多 不再是得到认可 也就是说
That really changed a lot.It's no longer to be validated,i.e. 变得完美 而是作为一个人被了解
to appear perfect,but it was to be known as a human being, 当然了 准许自己为人
of course- permission to be human. 而这实际上大大地促进了我的教学
And that actually improved my teaching a great deal 我也更喜欢教课了
and I enjoyed it so much more. 因为我们之间的关系不再有那么大的压力
Because there is so much less pressure on us in a relationship, 不管是什么关系 只要我们抱着被了解的愿望
any relationship,when we go in with the intention of being known 重在表达而非使人记住
of expressing rather than impressing. 我们会如释重负 而更好的是
We can feel so much lighter.And the wonderful thing is, 这使得一段关系更健康
that it also makes the relationship so much healthier. 我还会讲得更多 因为这非常重要
But again,much more on it- because it is so important. 是非常重要的话题 我们经常讲这个
So important topic.We talked about this a lot. 我们如何理解失败 绊脚石?
How do we perceive failure,as a stumbling block? 灾难? 还是作为一次机会 或成长的经历?
A catastrophe? Or as an opportunity? As a growth experience? 这都会有很大的区别
And that can make all the difference. 春假之后我们会再学习
We'll talk about it after spring break 我们会讨论完美主义以及对失败的恐惧
when we discuss perfectionism and the fear of failure. 最后讲一下
And finally, 你们读到的Ali Crum和Ellen Langer做的研究
the study that you read by Ali Crum and Ellen Langer. 先给你们讲点这个研究的背景
So just give you a little bit background about the study 我会简要地提一提 希望你们都已经读过了
and I will briefly mention it,hopefully you've read it already. Ali Crum从大一起就是我的学生
Ali Crum was my student for,since her freshman year. 我是她的助教 那时我和Phil Stone一起教学
I was her TF when I taught with Phil Stone. 然后我和Ellen Langer是她的毕业论文导师
And then I was her thesis advisor with Ellen Langer. 这是她的毕业论文题目
And this was the topic of her thesis. 当Ellen Langer提出这个想法时
When Ellen Langer came up with the idea for the thesis, 她告诉我和Ali
and she told Ali and me "我觉得这会是个有趣的研究"
"this is what I think would be a very interesting study", 我在会后把Ellen叫到一边
I took Ellen aside after the study- after the meeting, 在Ali走了之后
after Ali went away. 我跟她说"Ellen我觉得这样不公平"
And I told her "Ellen I don't think it's fair. "我觉得让Ali用这个做毕业论文不太公平"
I don't it's fair that Ali will do her thesis on it." 因为这是个非常困难的实验
Because the thesis is a very tough experiment- 如果你们没看过的话 一会儿就会听到了
you'll hear about it if you haven't read about it in a minute. "就算我们花费她大量的时间
"If we take a lot of time from her, "她也不会有任何成果"
she's not going to get any results." 现在你们的毕业论文可以没有结果
Now you can write your senior thesis with getting no result, 没有成果也没关系
without getting a result,that's OK. 但我说"干嘛浪费她的时间呢"
But I said,"why waste her time,her senior year?" 她跟我说"会有结果的" 我说"不会的"
And she said to me,"will work." I said to her,"no it won't." 而最后真的有结果
And boy,did it work! 我从那时起就学会了不和Ellen Langer争辩
Now I've learned since not to argue with Ellen Langer 因为她总有你觉得不可能有结果的想法
because she has ideas that you would never think would work, 但他们确实很喜欢我们1979年的
but they do like the study we mentioned with the 1979 "回到1959"实验 或是那个视力测试
"I'm going back to 1959" or with the eye test, 只是飞行模拟器提升了你的视力
being simply in the flying simulator improves your eyesight. 就是这些看起来很无厘头的想法 她证明它们是正确的
Again,ideas that seem fantastic,but she proves them right. 这个研究也是如此
So the same happened here with this study. 这个实验是 Ali去到酒店
The study was Ali went to hotels 和酒店的清洁工一起工作
and worked with the ladies who were cleaning the hotels. 她分别去跟两组人一起工作
And she went to them to two groups 跟两组人都说了锻炼的重要性
and told both groups the importance of physical exercise. 她说
And she said, "这是你们酒店搞的
"this is,you know,something brought to you by your hotel, 只是为了让你们知道锻炼有多重要"
just to show you how important exercise is." 然后她测试了她们的各项生理指标
And then she tested them on all these physical measures, 包括身体脂肪 血液样本
whether it was body fat,blood sample- 她们血液中有多少脂肪 体重
how much fat they had in their blood,weight, 还有心理指标 沮丧 焦虑 诸如此类
psychological measures- depression,anxiety,and so on and so on. 而她所做的是
And what she did was... 对于其中一组 她测试完后就不管她们了
to the one group,she just left them after all these tests. 而另一组
The second group, 她对她们说--这就是干预手段
she said to them,and this was the intervention, "你们所做的工作实际上就是种锻炼"
"you know the work you are doing is actually physical exercise." 她计算了收床单所消耗的卡路里
And she calculated how much calories it takes to pick up sheets, 抖床单 然后铺在床上
to go like this and then to put it on a bed, 用吸尘器清洁要消耗多少卡路里
how much calories it takes to actually vacuum. 她估算了这所有工作
She estimated all those things 然后她给她们看了每天锻炼
and then she gave them the statistics of how many calories 所消耗的卡路里的数据
you should expend a day doing exercise. 然后她说"你们做的其实正是健身"
And she says,"what you are doing is working out actually." 这是实验的干预 然后她两个月之后再回去
This was the intervention.And she went back 8 weeks later. 两个月后 她又进行了同样的测试
8 weeks later,she ran the exact same tests again. 她发现的有些结果
And some of the results that she found- 其中有些结果是预料之中的 有的则不是
some of them are in the article,others are not. 血压显著下降
Blood pressure decreased significantly. 血脂显著下降
The fat in the blood decreased significantly. 体重 两个月后
Body weight,after the 8 weeks, 实验组而非对照组
for the intervention group,not for the control group. 对照组期间完全没有变化
Control group: no change over that period! 体重显著下降
Body weight decreased significantly. 她们的自尊心上升 沮丧程度下降
Their self-esteem went up.Depression levels went down. 焦虑水平下降 精力水平上升
Anxiety levels went down.And energy levels went up. 所有都是这样
All,as a result. 此时她问"你们做了什么不同的事吗"
Now,she asked,"did you do anything differently? "或者你们比以前做了更多的锻炼吗"
Or you are exercising more than you did before?" 对照组与实验组之间
No difference between the control group 不存在区别
and the intervention group. 唯一的区别在于观念
The only difference was perception. 她们可能工作得更努力了 我们不得而知
Now they may have worked harder.We don't know. 可能只是心理作用 我们不得而知
It may be just the mind over body.We don't know. 但事实是由于她们重新审视了
But the fact is because they reframed, 重建了她们自己的经历
they reconstructed their experience from a chore- 从"我每天必须清扫三十间房间"
"I have to,you know,clean 30 rooms a day" 到"这是种锻炼 这对我有好处"
to "this is an exercise; this is good for me". 这就是区别所在
That made all the difference. 既是生理上的也是心理上的
Physically as well as psychologically. 这是急剧转变的一个例子
Here is an example of acute change. 这就像一锤子砸下去的变化
This is the change that happens like a sledgehammer. 这就是"有了!"的经历
And this is the Eureka experience. 有很多关于"有了!"的经历的讨论
There's a lot of talk,a lot of research, 研究 以及对这个领域的兴趣
a lot of interest in this area of the Eureka experience, 灵光乍现的一刻 顿悟--如此珍贵 如此重要
the ah ha moment,the insight- so valuable,so important. 而对此也有许多误解
And there's much misunderstanding about it. 因为人们都觉得这种顿悟是突然产生的 但其实不是
Because people think we suddenly have this insight,not so. 这是有一整个过程的
There's a whole process involved. 而这个过程从潜移默化开始
And the process begins with immersion. 这是我们为顿悟准备的时候 是我们学习的时候
This is when we prepare for the insight.This is when we learn. Howard Gardner做了许多研究
Howard Gardner has done a lot of work 关于全世界的成功人士
on extraordinary individuals throughout the world. 他发现一般来说 对于那些
And what he found is that generally for people 在某个领域成为专家
to become the experts in a field, 在某个领域具有创造力的人
to become Creative in a field, 他们都会下至少十年的苦功夫
they have to have invested at least ten years of very hard work. 这就是准备
This is the preparation. 这就是你将自己沉浸于那事物之中
This is when you immerse yourself in the material. 看看贝多芬的例子吧
Look for the example of Beethoven. 如果你们听过他的音乐 知道他的音乐轨迹
Those of you who listen to his music and know his trajectory: 第一和第二交响曲 莫扎特 和莫扎特非常相似
Symphony 1 and 2- Mozart.Sounds very similar to Mozart. 第三交响曲 英雄 就是贝多芬了
3rd Symphony,Eroica- it's Beethoven. 他使自己沉浸于当时的音乐
He immersed himself a great deal in the music of the day- 研究它 学习它 然后许多年之后
studied it and learned it.and then,after many years, 就能独创自己的风格 具有创造力
was able to become Beethoven and creative, 以及改变整个音乐领域
and transformed the whole field of music. 作为浪漫主义音乐第一人
Being the first of the Romantics. 第二个阶段
Second stage, 在准备好之后 这也需要下很多功夫
after we prepare- and it takes,again,a lot of hard work, 无论是比尔盖茨所做的准备
whether it's preparation that was done by Bill Gates 即便他是在翘课 还是比尔·克林顿
when he was skipping class or whether it's Bill Clinton. 在你成为某领域专家或具有创造力之前
A lot of preparation before you become an expert in the field 都要做大量的准备
and are able to introduce Creativity- 才会有顿悟的一刻
have that eureka,the insight. 第二个阶段 孵化
Second stage: incubation. 在所有具创造力的人身上都可见
And you see all the creative individuals: 在你将自己沉浸于事物中之后 你什么也不做
after you immerse yourself in an area,you do nothing. 你就是沉浸于其中
You just allow it to marinate. 比方说 并不是巧合
For example,there's no coincidence that 我们许多好点子都出现在洗澡的的时候
we get some of our best ideas in a shower. 阿基米德在泡澡时有了伟大的想法也不是巧合
It's no coincidence that Archimedes got his best idea in the bath 莫扎特曾经每天花好多个小时 在萨尔兹堡晃荡
Mozart used to spend hours a day,just driving around Salzburg 然后突然他就顿悟了
and then suddenly he would have the ah ha experience,the eureka. 他说"我突然能听到交响乐"
He said,"I could hear the symphony in a second." 突然他听到了所有
In a second,he could hear just about everything. 这是莫扎特的故事
OK.So that's Mozart. 但你也听说过莎士比亚会花很多时间驾着马车
But you hear Shakespeare would spend hours driving around 到处晃荡 然后突然顿悟
in his carriage and suddenly would have the insight, "故事就应该是这样的"
"OK,this is what the story is about." 然后他就可以去写 孵化是非常非常重要的
And then he would go and write it.Incubation is so so important. 摩根说:
J.P.Morgan: "我可以用九个月内完成一年的工作 但不能用十二个月"
"I can do a year's work in nine months,but not in twelve." J.P.Morgan他知道 你们知道
J.P.Morgan understood,you know, 他可能是美国史上最成功的企业家
arguably be the greatest entrepreneur this country has ever seen, 他知道休息对于创造力的重要性
understood the importance for creativity of taking time off. 当今的商业精英 领导者们都休息得不够
Today,business people,leaders don't take enough time off. 因为我们觉得这是浪费时间
Because we think it's a waste of time. 我们认为如果只是坐着什么事也不干
We think that if we just sit there and do nothing, 我们就确实什么事也没干
we are really doing nothing. 但不是的 思想在工作
Well,no.The mind works. 思想在工作 并且思想需要这样 才能获得顿悟
The mind works and the mind needs it for the creative insight. 事实上 领导者
In fact,leaders- 你们中的很多人都会变成领导者
and many of you will go into leadership positions- 比任何人都需要休息
need time off more than anyone else. 因为他们需要创造力
Because they need to be creative. 他们需要思考公司的未来
They need to think about the next thing for the company, 机构的未来
for the organization. 适当休息是无价的
Taking time in- invaluable. 不只是对记忆力 对于创造力也是一样
Not just for memory,also for creativity. 我工作时做过一件事
One of the things I do when I work with, 作为顾问 就是
as a consultant in organizations is 我会安排一段没有日程安排的时间
I just take the management on a retreat with no agenda. 我们就出去玩 而时常
We are just going to hang out.And very often, 在短短半小时或一小时内 各种各样的点子就会冒出来
within as little as half an hour or an hour,ideas begin to come out. 为什么 因为他们第一次有时间思考
Why? Because as the first time,they have time,no coincidence 我们常常一觉醒来就想到解决办法 这并非巧合
that we often wake up with a solution to a problem we had. 因为潜意识正在活动
Because subconscious mind is making connections then. Joseph Campbell说
Joseph Campbell: "你必须有个私人空间 或者一天特定的时间段
"You must have a room,or a certain hour or so a day, 此时你不知道今早报纸上讲什么
when you don't know what was in the newspapers that morning, 不知道你的朋友是谁
you don't know who your friends are, 不知道欠了别人什么
you don't know what you owe anybody, 不知道别人欠你什么
you don't know what anybody owes you. 这才是你能够静下心体会
This is a place where you can simply experience 感觉到你是谁以及可能是谁的时候
and bring forth what you are and what you might be. 这才是创造力孵化的时候
This is the place of creative incubation. 一开始 你可能发现什么都没有发生
At first,you may find that nothing happens there. 但如果你有一个这样神圣的时刻 并且好好利用它
But if you have such a sacred place and use it, 奇迹终将会发生" 很经常
something eventually will happen." And very often, 就在这孵化的时间里 在这些休息时间里
it's during this incubation times,it's during these time-ins, 在这你有机会反思自己的时间里
during the time when you have the opportunity to reflect, 不管是写论文
whether it's on the response paper, 还是出去玩 听音乐
or just hang out and listen to music. 灵光乍现的时刻通常都出现在此时
That's very often when the ah ha moment comes. 顿悟的体会 再一次的"我听到了交响乐"
The eureka experience.The one second "I see the symphony". 某种程度上来说
You know,in some way, 你可以对此进行一个类比
you can think about an analogy of how this happens. 你可以想想第一个阶段
You can think about stage one. 或者你可以当做性交流来想想
Or you can think about in a context of a sexual intercourse. 比如做爱
Of making love. 准备和孵化就好比前戏
Preparation and incubation can be the equivalent to foreplay. 顿悟的时刻就是高潮
The eureka experience- the orgasm. 这个过程中要理解的很重要的一点是
Now the important thing to understand about this process 你必须经过准备和
is you have to go through preparation, 孵化才能到达顿悟的时刻
incubation to get to the eureka experience. 换句话说 必须要有前戏
In other words,you need the foreplay. 男同学们 你们听见了吗
Did you hear that man? 必须有前戏才能进入下一步
You need the foreplay to get to the next level. 这很重要 这是创造力的过程的一部分
It's important.It's part of the creative process. 这意义重大 对于爱情来说意义重大
It's significant.It's very significant for love. 对于这个过程来说同样意义重大
It's significant also for this process. 而这之后
And then afterwards, 在你顿悟了之后 就是该进行评估的时候
after you've come up with the eureka,that's when you evaluate. 你要问自己"这是个好主意吗 会有用吗
You ask yourself,"is this a good idea? Does it work? 还是只是... 你知道的 女人..."
Or is it just something that you know women and..." 很多主意 很多顿悟的体验 最终都没起作用
Most ideas,most eureka experiences actually end up not working. 因此评估非常重要
And therefore,evaluation is important. 这确实是好主意吗
Is this really a good piece? 这确实是个好故事吗 莎士比亚会这样问
Is this really a good idea for a story?- Shakespeare asked. 这确实可以作为哲学命题吗 笛卡尔
Is this really a good idea for a philosophical treatise?- Descartes 这个花大量时间自省的人会这样问
who spent a lot of time on his own reflecting. 这确实可以作为哲学命题吗
Is this a really good idea for a philosophical treatise? 这是个好的商业计划吗 这会是下一个Facebook吗
Is this a good business plan? Is this the next Facebook? 或者还是只是我...
Or is this just something that I had,you know, 凌晨三点想到的
the idea that I had at 3 in the morning 有人已经做过或者根本不会成功的主意
and someone has already done it or it won't work? 评估非常重要
Evaluation is important. 世上有很多主意 但不是所有的都有用
There are many idea out there- not all of them work. 回到做爱的类比上
Or to go back to our analogy of making love. 有了第一个阶段 -前戏
So you have the first stage- the foreplay. 有了高潮 然后之后
You have the orgasm and afterwards, 就有了评估时要问的问题
here's the question that you may be asking when you evaluate it. 歌曲《你明天还会爱我吗》 The Shirelles合唱团
Song: Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow (Sung by The Shirelles): 这是持久的财富吗
Is this a lasting treasure 还是只是短暂的愉悦
Or just a moment of pleasure 我能相信你眼神的魔力吗
Can I believe the magic of your eyes 你明天还会爱我吗
Will you still love me tomorrow 现在就告诉我 我不会再问 亲爱的
So tell me now,and I won't ask again,darling 你明天还会爱我吗
Will you still love me tomorrow 你明天还会爱我吗
Will you still love me tomorrow 你明天还会爱我吗
Will you still love me tomorrow 你知道她们是谁吗 不是问家长们的
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:So do you know who they are? Not the parents. 同学们 你们认得出她们吗 The Shirelles
The students,do you recognize them? The Shirelles. The Shirelles合唱团 我最喜欢的组合 真的
The Shirelles.Actually my favorite group.Really. 我女儿的名字 你们有些人知道 就叫Shirelles
My daughter's name,some of you know,is Shirelle. 我们想起一个
And we were looking for a name that 既在希伯来语里有 也在英语里有的名字
would make sense in Hebrew as well as in English. 我妻子就想到了Shirelle
And my wife came up with the name Shirelle, 希伯来语的意思是"上帝之歌"
which means in Hebrew "song of God" 还有个The Shirelle合唱团
and you have the The Shirelles. 所以我们发现这是
So it was just,when we found out, 这是最合适的名字了
that was just the perfect name. 你们知道我为什么这么喜欢她们吗
You know what I love so much about it? 你们可以看到那个范儿 舞蹈的姿势
You can see the navy tame the dance. 我喜欢那个时代 非常喜欢
I love that era! Just love it! Just love it. 总之 登录youtube 搜索The Shirelles
Anyway,go in YouTube and sign and do the Shirelles, 你们就能看到她们的其他歌了 这就是评估
you'll see other songs by them.So this is when you evaluate. 马上就讲完了 这就是评估的时候
We are almost done.This is when you evaluate it. 这会是持久的吗
Is this something that will last? 是真实的吗
Is this something that is real? 绝妙的主意? 完美的关系? 比方说
A really good idea? A really good relationship? For example. 在那之后
After that, 这倒是没法和做爱类比 你得详细阐明
and this doesn't have a parallel to love-making- You elaborate. 详细阐明那些主意
You elaborate on the ideas. 你要写出来 把交响曲写出来
So you write out,you write out the symphony. 你这时要把那个命题写出来
This is when you write out the treatise. 你这时要制订出来商业计划
This is when you make the business plan. 我教这堂课 就经历了这整个过程
When I put together this course,I went through this process. 从准备开始
so I started off by preparing. 即便我之前做了充足的准备
So even though I had very good preparation before, 我学过两遍基本知识
you know I studied for the generals twice, 和Philip Stone教授一起教学
teaching with Professor Philip Stone as... 我是他的助教 两次 助教
I was his TA,twice.TF. 即便我学了很多年社会心理学...
Even though I studied social psychology for many years and... 我会抽出点时间
I took time off, 将我自己沉浸于积极心理学的材料中
where I immersed myself in positive psychology material. 我读了积极心理学手册
I read the handbook of positive psychology 这是个非常好的武器
which is a very good weapon to use. 如果有人接近 你可以用这个砸他
If anyone comes close,you can just throw at them. 大概有这么厚 但是是很不错的书
It's about this big.But very good. 我读了成百上千的学术文献
I read hundreds of academic journal articles. 然后我就抽出点时间
And then I took time off. 在那段时间 我谈论积极心理学
And during that time off,I talked about positive psychology, 但我不对此下太多功夫
but I didn't work in positive psychology. 我和我妻子聊 和Phil Stone聊
I had conversation with my wife,with Phil Stone, 和我哥哥聊
with my brother about this. 正是这时灵光一现 正是这时我顿悟了
And that's when the eurekas came.That's when the insights came. 我说"这门课就应该是这样组织的
I said,"OK so this is how the course is going to be built. 这就是那根螺旋" 然后我想到了PPEO
This is the spiral." Then I had the idea of PPEO, "峰值后体验" 这样的灵光一现
Post Peak Experience Order,as an idea,an ah ha moment. 之后我就对其进行评估 我评估自身
And afterwards,I evaluated it.I evaluated myself. 我通过和他人交流来评估 看看
I evaluated by talking to other people about it to see 它是不是真的有用 然后我坐下来
if it works and then I sat down 花很多很多的时间把课的内容写出来
and spent hours and hours and hours,writing out the lectures. 每堂课都写了出来 显然我没有照本宣科
All my lectures are written out.Obviously I don't read them. 但在准备时
But in preparation, 在我准备上课时 我确实会看几遍
when I prepare for the lectures,I do read them a few times. 那就是详细阐明
That was the elaboration. 这就是创造的过程
That is the creative process, 不管是准备一门课
whether it's putting together a class, 或者运作一个机构
or putting together a great organization, 写本好书 或者发展一段良好的关系
of writing a great book or creating a great relationship. 下周见 周末愉快
I'll see you next week.Have a wonderful weekend. 



 Chapter 11: 写日记


早上好 我叫Dana 我是大一的学生
Student:Hi.Good morning.My name is Dana.I'm a freshman. 我想跟你们说说
Um,I'd like to tell you about 下周会在哈佛进行的一个社会项目
a social program happening here at Harvard next week. 我爷爷是二战大屠杀的幸存者
My grandfather,who's Holocaust survivor, 他将要来哈佛讲述他的亲身经历
is coming to give an account of his experiences. 我想这会是一次非常特别的机会
I think it'll be a really special opportunity 让我们听到历史上一个感人的故事
to hear a moving account,a personal account of history. 他在其他大学和联合国做过演讲
He has spoken at other universities,at the UN. 他的故事挺扣人心弦的
His story is quite incredible. 演讲会于七点三十在纪念堂举行
The event will take place at 730 in the Memorial Church, 下周的这一天 3月18日 周二
a week from today - Tuesday,March 18. 想了解更详细的信息 请查看Facebook网页
For more information,you can find on the Facebook event. "在奥斯威辛集中营中幸存:一位幸存者的故事"
It's called "Surviving Auschwitz: A Holocaust survivor story". 你们可以谷歌…
You could just Google... 或在哈佛的网站上查找二战大屠杀
You could just check Holocaust under the Harvard network. 希望大家能够抽时间来听听
And it'll be great if you could come. 如果有问题请联系我 我叫Dana
So any questions,please find me.My name is Dana. 我会随时回复 我是这活动的主办人
I always send you the message.I was the creator of the event. 谢谢大家 谢谢Tal
Thank you.Thank you,Tal.(Applause) 大家早上好 今天
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Hi.Good morning.So today 我们会先讲完"改变"
what we are going to do is finish up the lecture on change, 总结一下ABC 也就是影响 行为和认知
sum it up the ABCs- the affect,the behavior,the cognition, 然后继续讲另一个相关课题 设定目标
and then move on to a related topic which is setting goals, 这将是最后一个…
which will be the last topic 在放假前我要讲的课题
that I'll address before we go on break.The... 上次讲完了急剧变化
Last time I ended up by talking about the acute change 由探索而得的经验引起的急剧变化
that comes with a Eureka experience, 这种经验来自顿悟感和洞察力
with an ah hah,with an insight. 我们讲过五个阶段
And we talked about these five stages. 之后有些学生联系我说
And a couple of you contacted me after about this and said, "并不是很顺利" 没错
"well,it's not that smooth" and it's absolutely right. 这是一个理论 只是一个大纲
This is a theory.This is an outline. 你写作的时候 当你思考…
When you write,when you come up with ideas, 或设定课程
when you generate course, 或是写论文时
when you write a paper or write a thesis- 你们当中有人在写论文
some of you are thesis writers, 你们常犯的错误是将它们混淆了
what you do is very often mix them. 通常你们会先准备 然后写一些
So you have preparation.Then you write a little bit. 之后休息一下 会有一些顿悟
And then you take a break.You have an insight. 再开始作更多准备等等
Then you go back to more preparation and on and on. 这只是一个轮廓 某些角度来看是很有用的
This is just a general outline,which is useful in a few ways. 首先
First of all, 我们光看着它就能明白
it is useful in that we can understand by looking at it. 没有捷径
There's no quick fix. 历史上所有的艺术家 科学家
None of the great creative artists,scientists, 商界名人都不是凭空出世的
business people in history,created in a vacuum. 他们首先得成为各自领域的专家
Initially they became experts in their fields. 他们努力工作 将自己沉浸在知识里
They worked hard.They immersed themselves in the material. 这是你们首先要记住的一点
So that's the first important element to remember. 没有捷径 我们得先付出努力
No short cuts.We have to apply ourselves. 还记得成功的秘诀吗?
Remember the secret of success? 不光是思考 想象和相信
It's not just think,imagine,believe. 必须要有努力和热情这两点要素
It also has to have the component of hard work as well as passion 所有的成功人士
So all the successful people... 再次提到 做好的自助书籍是自传
Again,the best self-help books are biographies, 好的自传会教你如何成功
good biographies that show you the process, 而不是那么简单的"五步"
not the "five easy steps". 第二个重要因素 比投入到准备过程…
The second important thing beyond the importance of immersion 更重要的是 空闲时间的重要性
of the preparation is the significance of taking time off. 今天的领导人所缺的…
One of the first thing that leaders of today, 他们所缺的其中一样东西是时间
one of the things they don't have today is time. 时间是他们最需要的
It's the thing that they need most. 有空闲时间去筹划 反思
Time off to incubate,to reflect,to metaphorically, 或只是坐在浴缸里思考
or literally,sit in the bath and think. 熟虑 发呆的时间段
That incubation,the idle time stage. 记得J.P.Morgan说过
Remember J.P.Morgan's quote: "我可以用9个月而不是12个月来完成一年的工作"
"I can do a year’s work in nine months,but not in twelve." 那是要有所顿悟或灵感出现为前提的
And that's when the Eureka comes.That's when the good ideas come. 这些灵感来自一夜好觉之后
It's actually after a good night's sleep. 或是充分休息一段时间之后
It's after "we do nothing for a while". 或是在洗澡过程中
It's when we in the shower. 下一个重要因素是
The next important thing, 这个模型的组成部分是评估部分
component of this model is the evaluation part. 人有很多好的想法
You know,there are many good ideas, 但极少数是可以有好成果
but very few ideas come to fruition 最终成为经商的好点子
and actually become a good idea for a business, 或成为科学论文或书籍的好构思
or a good idea for a scientific paper,or a book, 或其他任何有作为的东西
or whatever it may be. 这时候就需要评估
That's when the evaluation comes 需要详细筹备
and that's when the elaboration comes. 这也就是创作的必经阶段
And these are no less important parts of the creative process. 真的需要百分之一的灵感
It really is about 1 percent inspiration 百分之九十九的汗水 没捷径可言
and 99 percent perspiration.No short cuts. 所以总结起来:ABC 也就是影响(情感)
So to summarize: the ABCs- the affect (the emotion), 行为和认知
the behavior (action),and the cognition (the thought). 我想谈一个小小的技巧
I want to talk about a technique, 一个简单的方法 就是把有深刻
a simple technique- journaling that has remarkable, 影响的事情记录下来
remarkable consequence. 请大家举起手
Just get a show of hands: how many people keep a journal 多少人有长期写日记的习惯?好
or have kept a journal for significant amount of time? OK. 这么多人有这个习惯 是件好事
That's great.That's great to see. 从这个课程和大家之前
We know from,from this course and research 接触过的研究中知道 改变是困难的
you encountered before how difficult change is. 有的项目持续五年了还是没有进展
Sometimes programs that have been around for 5 years don't help. 通常投入的资金是数百万 数十亿
Very often interventions were millions and billions. 大概每年投入巨额资金来做研究
It's about-100-billion-dollars-a year industry 才能对各行业和机构有所改变
that change industries and organizations. 很多的资金投入都浪费了
Most of the interventions don't work. 说明改变有多难
We know how difficult it is to change. 而日记呢?
And yet journaling? 有实质的研究结果证明它的作用很大
Very solid research showing how much it helps. 我跟你们分享一下某项调查
So let me share with you a study. 这项调查是由…
This was done by the person 那些将日志带进科学领域的人来做的
who really brought journaling into the scientific realm. 有些像Ira Progoff这样的人
So there'd been people like Ira Progoff and others 长期以来一直在讨论写日记的作用
who had been talking about journaling for a very long time, 但却是德州大学的Jamie Pennebaker
but it was Jamie Pennebaker from University of Texas,Austin, 将这个想法带进了科学领域
who brought this idea to the scientific realm 并真正意义上研究它 他是这么做的
and really researched it.And here is what he did. 他选了一些参与者 并让他们
What he did was bringing participants and have them do 做以下的事情:连续四天
the following: on 4 consecutive days that they came in,each day, 每天都用15分钟的时间 就15分钟
they would spend 15 minutes- that's all,15 minutes, 来写下最难忘的经历
times for writing about the most difficult experiences. 他们知道其实没人会看的
Now they knew that no one would see it. 就算被人看到
Or if they would see it, 这些日记也是匿名的 绝对保密
it would be without a name- completely confidential. 所以完全可以看成是他们的私人日记
So they were really able to treat it as their own journal. 以下就是他们得到的指示
And here was the instructions that these participants got. 有点长 但值得一读
It's a little long but worth,I think,worth reading. "连续写下你一生中最难过
"Write continuously about the most upsetting 或最痛苦的经历"
or traumatic experience of your entire life. 不必在意语法 拼写或句子结构
Don't worry about grammar,spelling,or sentence structure. 在日记中 我希望你能谈谈…
In your writing,I want you to discuss 你对这经历的最深刻的想法和感受
your deepest thoughts and feelings about the experience. 写什么都行
You can write about anything you want. 但不管你选什么
But whatever you choose, 都必须是对你有着深刻影响的
it should be something that has affected you very deeply. 最好是一些…
Ideally,it should be about something 你从未怎么跟别人讲过的事
you have not talked about with others in detail. 其实挺难的 因为敞开了心扉
It is critical,however,that you let yourself go 去触碰那些你内心深处的感情和思想
and touch those deepest emotions and thoughts that you have. 换句话说
In other words, 就是写下你的经历和以前的感想
write about what happened and how you felt about it, 以及现在对它的看法如何
and how you feel about it now. 最后 你可以每次都写不同的痛苦经历
Finally,you can write on different traumas during each session 也可以整个研究过程都写同一个经历
or the same one over the entire study. 每次你可以选择任何想写的痛苦经历
Your choice of trauma for each session is entirely up to you." 很简单的做法 很直接
Simple instructions.Pretty straight-forward. 如果有留心 就知道当中包含了ABC三个要素
If you notice,you see the ABCs in it. 它包含了"写出发生的事"
So it says "write about what happened", 也就是行为
which is the behavior essentially. 写下你的深刻感受 受到的影响以及你的情感
Write about your deepest feelings- your affect,your emotions. 写下你的想法并分析它
And write about your thought and analyze it. 这样 日记里就包含了ABC三个因素
The ABCs in journaling. 他做了这项研究后 最初结果出来了
So when he did this study,initially the results came in- because 他首先看到的是焦虑水平
one of the first things he looked at was the anxiety level, 因此看到结果时 他失望了
so when the results came in,disappointment. 他考虑要不要停止这项研究
In fact,thinking of stopping the study, 因为这就是他的研究所得
because this is what he found. 大家看这幅图 这是焦虑水平
So if we have this graph,this would be anxiety level. 这是时间
This would be time. 他有一个对照组 对照组的成员
He had a control group and the control group just wrote 只是写下他们想写的东西
about anything that they wanted to write about. 随着时间推移 焦虑水平没有改变
Show no change over time. 从这里开始 一条直线过来
So they started here,and they essentially,straight line. 而干预组 实验组的成员
The intervention group,the experimental group, 经过四天 写下他们最痛苦…
after 4 days of writing about their most traumatic, 最难过的经历后
most difficult experiences. 他们的起点一样 当初分组是随机分的
They started at the same point.They were randomly divided. 他们的焦虑水平竟呈现上升趋势
And then a rise in their anxiety. 每天这么写 在这四天内
After each of the days and during the 4 days- 他们的焦虑水平上升了
rise in their levels of anxiety. 到了这个位置时
At this point, 他考虑终止研究 因为非常失望
he was thinking terminating the study- very disappointed. 因为他自己觉得…
Because he got from personal experience- 写日记对他有帮助
he knew that journaling helps him and 而也有其他人说过这一观点
knew other people who talk about it,who swear by journaling. 四天之后 从第五天开始
But then,once the 4 days are over,during the fifth, 尤其是第六天 第七天之后
especially starting 6th,7th and on days, 奇怪的事发生了
this is what starts to happen. 他们的焦虑水平降低了
Their anxiety levels went down. 达到了原来的水平
Learning that they reach the same level as before, 还持续下降
they continue to go down. 最重要的是
And the most important thing is that 在原来的水平之下保持稳定
they stabilized below the previous level. 在原来的焦虑水平之下保持稳定
They stabilized below the previous levels of anxiety, 他密切留意着这些参加者
when he followed these participants 一段很长的时间 长达一年
over a longer period of time up to a year. 四次 15分钟 足足一小时
4 times,15 minutes- that's total of an hour. 时间很短 效果是持续的
That's very little.And long lasting results. 想想 我们之前也知道
Think about it: this is also what we saw before. 有时候 简单的干预是很有效果的
Sometimes,brief interventions are extremely effective. 想想我上周说过的害羞研究
Think about the shyness study that I spoke about last week 12次 每次12分钟 让男士们与对他们…
after 12 sessions of 12 minutes with women 有好感的女士们独处
who were interested in them, 这些害羞的异性恋男士发生了很大的变化
these shy heterosexual men change radically. 所以改变其实可以发生在极短的时间内
So change can come in a relatively brief period of time 关键是我们要知道如何干预
if we know how to intervene. 而日记就是其中的一种干预方式
And journaling is one of these interventions. 我不会要你们写这个作业
Now this is not going to be one of your response paper- 因为太私人了
it's too personal. 我觉得不该布置给你们
I don't think it's appropriate to assign it, 但我强烈推荐你们试一下
but I certainly do recommend that you do it. 严格按照Pennebaker的指示
Follow specifically Pennebaker's instructions. 不会占很长时间
Doesn't take that long. 连续四天都做 每次15到20分钟
Do it on 4 days,15 minutes,20 minutes each time, 想到什么写什么
just write whatever comes to mind. 一段时间之后可以降低你们的焦虑感
So it was reducing anxiety over time. 这项研究的其他结果
Other results of the study- 如果你想了解更多
and if you want to read much more about it, 他有一本很棒的书 叫《开放》
he has a wonderful book called "Opening Up". Jamie Pennebaker的《开放》
"Opening Up",by Jamie Pennebaker. 他们变得更健康
They became healthier. 一年过后 他们回去看医生的人数
So over the year of the study,they visited the doctor's office, 远比对照组的人少
compared to a control group,far less. 就是说 这项研究增强了他们的免疫系统
In other words,it strengthened their immune system, 不光是他们的心理免疫系统
not just their psychological immune system, 同时还有他们的身体免疫系统
their physiological immune system. 总得来说他们心情好了
Generally they were in a better mood. 比以前更快乐 更乐观 更积极
They were happier,more jovial,more benefit finders, 在他们记下最深刻伤痛后
after writing about their deepest traumas. 他们变得更外向 不那么压抑和忧郁了
They became more outgoing,less repressed,less suppressed. 为什么会这样呢 我们说过积极情感
Now why is that? We talked about it often that positive emotions 和痛苦情感都来自同一个输送通道
and painful emotions flow through the same pipeline. 如果我们抑制着某些事情 或停止一些…
And if we suppress something,if we stop something, 痛苦的事 我们常常会间接地
which is painful,we are very often indirectly, 同时无意中抑制一些积极的情感
inadvertently also suppressing the positive emotions, 只要他们随时敞开心胸
whereas here they open up,quite literally open up 让这些情绪尽情流露
and allow these emotions to flow through them. 那他们其实是打开了一条闭塞的通道
They are essentially opening up a clogged channel- 一条各种情绪…
a clogged channel through which emotions, 包括痛苦和积极情绪流动的通道
painful as well as positive emotions normally flow. 他们也能体验到更高层次的快乐
And they experience higher levels of happiness. 他们会更阳光 更慷慨
They are more open,more generous, 就像你做感恩练习时所得的结果一样
as we saw also when you do the gratitude exercise. 非常相似
Very similar results. 有趣的是 会有性别差异
There were gender differences,which is interesting. 男女都从中受益
Now both sexes benefited from it. 但男士比女士受益更多
However,men benefited more than women. 试想一下
Think about it. 为什么 仔细想想 其实不无道理
Why do you think that is? It makes sense,if you think about it. 受益的女士 状况大大改善
Women benefited significantly got better, 但男士受益更多
but men benefited even more. 为什么?一般来说
Why? Because women have,generally speaking- again, 这是千遍一律的说法
this is brush stroke stereotype- 但一般来说 女士敞开得更多
but generally speaking,women open up more. 她们和女伴们谈得更多
They speak more with their girl friends. 她们有密友 并对她们倾诉一切
They have closer friends and they talk about issues. 而在今天的文化中 男士还是比较保守
Men still in our culture today are much more close 因为找人倾诉有点没面子
because it's not cool to open up. 准许自己为人 不是一件很酷的事
It's not cool to give yourself the permission to be human, 尤其是有其他人在旁时
especially when others are listening. 因此 在生活中 女士们
so women generally in their lives 但尽管如此 拥有强大支持的女士
But still,even women who have strong supports systems 仍能从这项练习中获益
still benefit from this exercise, 这让我想起了另一项研究的结果
which reminds me of another result of a study 我几个月前提到过的 在课程开始时
I mentioned months ago,the beginning of the course, 提到一般来说 女人
which said women generally,again these are all averages, 我指通常情况
but in general, 或者说男人 在婚姻中比女人受益更多
women- or rather men benefit more from marriage than women. 类似的原因
For similar reason. 因为女士们原来就有支持系统
Because women already have the supports system in place. 而男人 通常这是他们第一次遇到一个
Men,very often,for the first time they are with someone, 让他们觉得能安心倾诉的人 同样
who they feel comfortably enough opening up to.Again, 尽管男女都在长期的恋爱关系中获益
both males and females benefit from a long-term relationship, 但还是男士受益比女士多
but men generally tend to benefit more than women. 他发现了因同一个原因而产生的性别差异…
For the same reason that he found gender difference here. 存在于不同文化当中
Across cultures. 这项研究分别在中国 日本 墨西哥和阿根廷做过
This is done in China,in Japan,Mexico,Argentina, 当然也包括美国 欧洲等不同文化
United States of course,Europe- replicated across cultures. 不同文化的人们都从该项研究受益
In all cultures,people benefit from this study. 还有另一项研究 用的是相反的方法
Here is another study,which took the exact opposite approach. Laura King是Pennebaker的学生
So Laura King was a student of Pennebaker, 用相反的方法来做这项研究 她说
took the exact opposite approach and said, "我们来研究一下…
"let's study...(inaudible)... "看当人们…
to see what happens when the individuals 写下最快乐的经历时会有怎样的结果
write about their most intensive positive experience. 她的做法明确地根据
What she did specifically was taking the instructions Abraham Maslow关于巅峰经验的研究
from Abraham Maslow's work on peak experience. 以下就是做法
And here are the instructions. 三次 15分钟
Once again,this was three times,15 minutes, 连续三天 总共45分钟
so 45 minutes total on three consecutive days. "想出生命中最精彩的经历…
"Think of the most wonderful experience 或多次美好的经历 快乐 兴奋的时刻
or experiences in your life,happiest moments,ecstatic moments, 或坠入爱河极度欢喜的时刻
moments of rapture,perhaps from being in love, 或者听音乐时的欢快时刻 或突然…
or from listening to music,or suddenly ‘being hit’ 发现一本好书或好画或突然灵感乍现"
by a book or painting or from some great creative moment. 选择其中一个这样的时刻
Choose one such experience or moment. 想象自己正经历这一时刻
Try to imagine yourself at that moment, 沉浸在所有与这一经历有关的…
including all the feelings and emotions 感受和情感中
associated with the experience. 尽量详细地写下这次经历
Now write about the experience in as much detail as possible 尽量写下感受和想法
trying to include the feelings,thoughts, 及当时产生的情感
and emotions that were present at the time. 尽量尝试重新经历那些情感
Please try your best to re-experience the emotions involved." 这个做法和Pennebaker的做法相反
Essentially the exact opposite of Pennebaker. 结果呢?完全一样
Results? Identical. 那些写下他们巅峰经验的人
Those who wrote about their peak experiences, 写下最快乐经历的人 去看医生的次数少了
their best experiences,visited the doctor's office less time- 就是说 这个做法增强了他们的身体免疫系统
in other words,it strengthened their physiological immune system 让他们体验更多快乐
and experienced more happiness. 不论心理还是身体上都得到同样的效果
So both psychological and physiological results. 现在来看 你们有些人可能会想
Now when you look at this,some of you may be thinking that "那Lyubomirsky的研究呢"
"well,what about the Lyubomirsky study?" 还记得Lyubomirsky的研究吗?
Remember the Lyubomirsky study? 那项研究表示 当你写下积极情感时
That said when you write about positive emotions. 其实你感觉更糟
Actually you feel worse. 而写下负面情感
Whereas you write about negative emotions, 都会如Pennebaker所说 感觉会好些
you do feel better as Pennebaker suggested. 不同之处在于
Here's the difference. Laura King的做法主要是…
The instructions that Laura King gave were mostly, 描述和重新体验
were mostly about describing and re-experiencing, 重现你的经历
replaying your experience. 而不是分析"怎么会发生这种情况"
It wasn't about analyzing "why did it happen","how did it"... 而是它的发生过程 就是重现
It was rather how it happen- in other words,replaying it. 当做法…
When the instructions- 而Lyubomirsky的研究是分析这种经历
and this is the Lyubomirsky study- were analyze the experience: 为什么会发生 你为什么会遇上之类的
why it happened,how did you get there and so on and so on. 这就是为什么随着时间推移 会产生负面的效果
That's why it had the negative consequences over time, 但只是重现经历
but just replaying the experience, 只写下这次经历有多美好
just writing about how wonderful it is, 重新体验当时的情感
re-experiencing emotionally what that was- 实际上会让你受益
that actually let you benefit. 有趣的问题是为什么
Now the interesting question is why. 为什么写日记能产生如此显著的好处?
Why are there such remarkable benefits to journaling? 我们来理解一下这个过程 当中的原理
Let's understand the process,the mechanism. 现在有几件事情在这里起作用
So there are a few things that are at play here. 例如你带着积极情感
One of the things for example with positive emotions is that 在回想其中一次经历
when you are replaying it,you are simply, 你其实是在增强神经通路
you are fortifying the neural pathways. 你再次重现 想象它
You replay,you imagine it again 让它像重新发生一样
and you make it more likely to happen again. 就像你面前有条河
Just like when you have a river, 记得两周前的类推法吗 你面前有条河
remember the analogy from two weeks ago,you have a river, 流过的水越多 它就变得越宽阔
and the more water go through it,then the wider it becomes, 然后越来越多水流进去
and then the more water is likely to go into it. 这是变化的本质 自我实现
That's self-reinforcing nature of change. 因此
So the first thing, 为什么写下 尤其是痛苦情感
the first reason why writing especially about painful emotions 但也不只是痛苦情感
but not just painful emotions, 之所以有所帮助是因为紧张感
the reason why it helps is because of tension. 我们之前讲过Daniel Wegner的"反语处理"
We talked about ironic processing- Daniel Wegner's work from here 而他谈到…
And what he talks about is that 当我们抑制非自然现象时 通常会适得其反
when we suppress unnatural phenomenon,it often intensifies. 比如想像一头粉红色的大象
Be it thinking about a pink elephant 或抑制痛苦的情感
or be it suppressing painful emotions. 当我们准许自己为人
And when we give ourselves the permission to be human, 我们都倾向于释放感情 放开心胸
we are much more likely to release it,to let go, 这就是治疗产生作用的原因 就是为什么和朋友分享
which is why therapy helps,which is why sharing with friends, 与人倾诉以及写日记能有所帮助
opening up helps,which is why journaling helps. 这就是抑制或压抑的概念
This is the whole idea of suppression or repression. Pennebaker所说的另一件事是关联性
The second thing that Pennebaker talks about is coherence. 他发现的其中一件事是…
One of the things that he finds is that 那些受益最大的人 他分析了这个测试
the individuals who benefit most,and he analyzes the test, 秘密地 他对测试进行分析
confidentially of course,but he analyzes the test. 从这项研究受益最多的人
Individuals who benefit most from the study 都使用了一些领悟性的词语或词组
are once introduced a lot of insight words,or insight phrases, 也就是说到了第三天 他们都开始写到
meaning by the third day,they are all writing "现在我知道了"或者"我明白了"
"now I see that" or "I understand that" "我突然明白了"或"我意识到"
or "it just dawned on me that" or "I realize that". 日记里提及到这些词或短语的次数最多的人
Those who have many of these words or phrases in their writings 就是受益最大的人
are the ones who benefited the most. 换句话说
In other words, 他们已从这经历中创造出一种关联性
they've created a sense of coherence out of the experience. 他们从某些事当中得到了启示
They make sense out of something perhaps 这些事情以前也许是毫无意义的
before that was senseless. 也就是说 他们围绕着他们的经历创造出故事
In other words,they created a story around their experiences. 这经历已不再是零散的 无关的片段
It's no longer dispersed,disjointed,disconnected data. 现在已经是一个连贯 完整的故事
Now it is a coherent whole.It's a story. 现在我可以面对它了
Now I can deal with it. 仔细想想 人们通常最记得的是什么?
And if you think about it,what do people mostly remember? 他们最记得的是故事
People mostly remember stories. 为什么?你能记住一个故事
Why? Because you remember a story, 是因为它是一个整体
because it's one unit- it's a whole. 如果我现在给你们100个随机的词
If I give you now a collection of,you know,100 random words, 那你得花很长时间才能记住
it'll take you a very long time to commit to memory. 我们都清楚 我们都做过学术评估测试
I mean we all know,we all took the SATs. 如果我跟你讲一个故事
But if I tell you a story, 你多数都会记得
you are much more likely to remember it. 也许不是每个词都记得 但大概意思
Maybe not word for word,but certainly,the general ideas. 因为我们能将它连贯起来 可以理解
Because we can hold it,we can grasp it. 它有关联性
Because it has a sense of coherence. 我能理解 能记住
I can deal with it.I can handle it, 而不像一些零散的 不连贯的单词
as opposed to some dispersed ideas,disjointed words. 而同样的道理
The exact same here. 我们想感受到我们的生命的关联性
We want to feel that our lives have a sense of coherence 让生命变得有意义
that we can make sense of them. Pennebaker说"我们模糊且无可预知的世界的产物之一
Pennebaker: "An artifact of our ambiguous and unpredictable world 就是对不能完满成功而产生的焦虑
is the anxiety of not attaining completion 和无法理解对一些造成痛苦困扰的缘由
and not understanding a simple cause-and-effect explanation 的简单解释"
for traumatic disturbances. 我们自然地去寻找…
Alas,we naturally search for meaning 事件的意义和完满性 它让我们有了对生命的…
and the completion of events; it gives us a sense of control 控制以及预知能力
and predictability over our lives." 这再次说明了疗法能起作用的原因
Again,that's why therapy helps, 因为我们从经验中创造出关联性
because we create coherence out of experience. 这就是大屠杀造成的创伤后遗症远少于…
This is why there was far less post-traumatic stress disorder 越南战争造成的创伤后遗症的原因
after the Holocaust after there was the Vietnam war. 因为在大屠杀之后 士兵们说出了这次经历
Because after the Holocaust,they spoke about these experiences. 他们围绕这次经历讲出一个故事 虽然悲惨
They created a story around it,a tragic one, 但还是会有关联性 和越战的经历不同
but still there was a sense of coherence,as opposed to Vietnam 对于越战 他们只有一些零散的记忆
where there was just random flashes of experiences 并没有准许自己为人 也没有这样的社会环境
without giving themselves permission,or without society, 或其他途径让他们尽情倾诉
in many ways,giving them the permission to open up 来说出一个他们可以应付
and to create a story out of it that they could hand, 可以接受的故事
they could grasp. Pennebaker的研究大部分是以一位我们
The work of Pennebaker to a great extent relies on the work of 第一天提过的心理学家的理论为基础的
a psychologist who we mentioned on the very first day of class. 那就是Aaron Antonovsky
And that is Aaron Antonovsky. Aaron Antonovsky
Aaron Antonovsky 我把他看作幸福心理学的奠基人之一
whom I consider to be one of the fathers of positive psychology, 如果你记得 就会想起"健康本源学"
if you remember,came up with the notion of "salutogenesis", 病理模型的替代
an alternative to the pathogenic model- pathogenic model, 就是那个专门讲病理学和疾病的模型
the model that focuses on pathology,on sickness,on illness, Antonovsky说
where what Antonovsky said is 我们要关注的是健康的始源
we need to focus on the origins of health. Saluto是健康 genesis是本源
Saluto- health; genesis- origin. 他的具体做法如下
And what he did specifically was the following. 他是个社会学家 他说
So he was a sociologist and he said the following- 生活是艰苦的 人们都在艰苦奋斗
he said: look,life is tough.People go through hardship. 无论愿意与否 我们都会遇到困难
They go through difficulties- whether we like it or not, 生活中 我们遇到各种困难
we all in life encountered hardships. 恋爱中 上学时 工作中
In relationship,in school,at work- whatever,whichever domain, 都有困难与挫折的存在
there are hardships,there are difficulties. 总有时候生活是艰苦的 大家都知道
Life is hard.Period.We know that. 然而 有些人…
However,there are some people 对困难和挫折…
who are able to better deal with the hardship, 处理得更好 他们…
with the difficulties,who still, 尽管不是没遇到这些困难
despite- they don't do away these hardships- 就算常遇到困难和挫折
despite these hardships and difficulties 他们仍能过上充实 满足且幸福的生活
are still able to lead a full,fulfilling and overall,happy life 不是指那种…
Not the constant high- 精神病患者或死人的那种永恒的快乐
that's reserved for psychopaths and dead people. 而是有高低起伏 但是更高层次的幸福
With the same ups and downs,but at a higher level of wellbeing, 或者说是一个焦虑水平比较低的生活
or of a lower level of anxiety. 他说我们要研究这些人
And he said we need to study those. 不该只研究有病的人
We shouldn't just study the sick people, 不管是身体健康有问题的病人
whether the sick people who are physically ill- 就是通常在医学中用作病理学模型的病人
which is mostly the pathogenic model of medicine, 还是心理方面的病人-精神分裂症病人
or the people who are unwell psychologically- schizophrenia, 忧郁症病人 还是心理学中研究最多的焦虑症病人
depression,anxiety as psychology has mostly studied. 他说我们该关注健康的人 并研究他们
He said we need to look at the healthy people and study them, 正是这个模型…
which is exactly the model 让他在80年代时调查了一些风险人群
that led to asking the question in 1980s with at-risk population: "是什么使得某些人
"What makes some individuals succeed 在艰苦的环境中取得成功?"
despite unfavorable circumstances?" 就是因为他的这个问题 改变了一切
It was his question that made all the difference. 于是在他的研究中 他做了同样的事情
So he did the same in his research 找了一些人来做调查 问他们
and asked about the general population: "为什么他们会健康?
"Who are the people who are healthy? 他们健康来自哪里?
And what is the origin of that health? 他们和其他人有何不同?"
What distinguishes them from other people?" 于是他发现了关联性的作用
And he came up with the notion of the sense of coherence 那些人让生活保持关联性
that people have the sense of coherence about their lives. 也就是说
What that means is that, 他说他研究并最终确定的因素有三个
he said it has three components that he researched and identified 第一:
The first component: 理解能力-我能理解世界
sense of comprehensibility- I understand the world. 世界对我很重要 我看得到 感觉到 理解到
It makes sense to me.I see.I realize.I get it. 世界 事件 困难 挫折
The world and event,difficulties and hardships, 生活的高低起伏对我来说是宝贵经历
highs and lows make sense to me mostly. 第二 管理能力
Second,sense of manageability. 我可以处理得了 能承受得了
I can deal with it.I can handle it. 我能利用各种内部和外部资源处理事情
I have the internal as well as external resources to deal with it 而不是孤立无援
as opposed to being helpless. 这是一种能效 一种自信
This is a sense of efficacy,of confidence- 能够处理突如其来的困难
being able to deal with the hardships that arise. 这就是第二个因素
So that's the second component. 最后一个因素是…
The third and the final component 如Aaron Antonovsky所说 能够产生关联性的
that makes up the sense of coherence,according to Antonovsky, 意义性
is a sense of meaningfulness. 困难的出现不是毫无意义的
This was not in vain- this difficulty. 我和伴侣意见不合不是坏事
This disagreement with my partner was not for nothing, 因为通过这事 我们更了解对方
because we understand one another better now. 我们会变得更亲密
And we are even close,more intimate. 我们在之间的冲突是有意义的
This failure was not in vain. 我已经从中学习到东西 并得到成长
I have learned from it.And I have grown from it. 这个错误是有原因的
This mistake has reason- again, 这件事的发生不一定是好的
not necessarily happen for the best, 但可以学习如何在事情发生后用最好的方法解决
but learning how to make the best of what happens. 他定义了这三个因素
These three components are what he identified and replicated 并被用作之后的精神健康研究来源
in later research as the source of mental health. 根据Pennebaker和Antonovsky的说法 关联感:
To quote Pennebaker- to quote Antonovsky,a sense of coherence: 是"一种整体适应性
"A global orientation that expresses the external- 主要包含三个方面
the extent to which one has a pervasive, 对生活的感受性和信心：
enduring though dynamic feeling of confidence that (1)在生命中个体感受到
(1) the stimuli deriving from one's internal 来自内外部环境的压力
and external environments in the course of living are structured, 是明确 具体 可预测的(即领悟性)
predictable and explicable (comprehensible,in other words); (2)个体感受到应对内外部环境压力
(2)	the resources are available to one to meet the demands posed 所需资源是充分的
by these stimuli (internal resources and external resources: 可以利用的(即可控性)
I can deal with it,I can manage); (3)个体感受到来自内外部环境的压力具有挑战性
and (3) these demands are challenges, 值得花时间和精力去应对"
worthy of investment and engagement (it's meaningful)." 看看这三点
Look at these three. 对写日记的人来说
For all those who write a journal, 我肯定能在你们的日记中找到这三点
I bet you can identify these three in your writings. 这就是日记所产生的巨大影响
This is what a journal does to a great extent. 当我们真的写下我们的经历
When we write and when we really write about our experiences, 那些艰苦的经历
our difficult experiences, 就必须要有关联感
this is very often what comes up - have sense of coherence. 我知道 我懂 这经历是很重要的
I see.I understand.Make sense. 我现在可以面对它 承受它
I can deal with it.I can handle it. 我刚找到了一种处理它的方法
I have just found a path of how to do it. 尽管只是将它写成日记
Even if dealing with it and handling it is writing a journal, 最后 它对我的人生来说 是有意义的
and finally,it makes sense to me. 它现在变得有意义了 尽管之前意义不大
It's meaningful to me now,whereas before,it didn't as much. 所以 如果你没有写日记的习惯
So if you don't have a journal,you don't journal, 我强烈推荐你开始写日记
it is certainly something that I highly,highly recommend. 我来总结一下"改变"这一课:A B C三点因素
Let me summarize the whole change lecture: the A,B and C. 三点是相互关联
The three are interconnected. 事实上 如果我们真的想有所改变
In fact,if we want real change to come about, 必须将这三点紧密连接起来
they have to be interconnected. 为什么?因为习惯就像洪水一样
Why? Because habit is like a flood. 如果我们只是开一个凹角或一条小缝
And it's not enough if we just create a small nook 是不足以养成一个新习惯
or cranny trying to create a new habit. 因为洪水会将它冲走
Because flood would wash it away. 我们需要的是结合A B和C
What we need is the A,the B and the C. 将这些变化融入我们生活中
Implement these changes in our lives. 它们是内部相连的 举一个例子
And they are interconnected.So let me give you an example. 例如那些自尊心很弱的人
Let's say someone who has low self-esteem. 低自尊心 C 认知
Low self-esteem,the C- cognition: 他们会小瞧自己
they don't think highly of themselves. 自我评价低
Poor self evaluation. 当你瞧不起自己时
When you don't think highly of yourself, 就会比较内向 感觉没自信
you are more likely to be innervated,to feel down, 更别说有动力了 也因此而产生不良影响
not to be motivated,and as a result of that,that is the Affect, 产生不好的情感
the emotion that you experience- not good feelings; 因此很可能会变得碌碌无为
as a result of that,we are much more likely to do nothing- 也就是说 B是碌碌无为
in other words,the B is do nothing. 通过自我认知理论
Now through self-perception theory, 这种行为进而影响我对碌碌无为的认知
the behavior then affects my cognition on doing nothing: 我处理不了事情 我逃避事情
I'm not dealing.I'm not coping.I'm avoiding. 这会使自尊降低
And that lowers my self esteem, 进而使自我评价更低 就是C
even more my evaluation of myself,the C. 这导致更低落的情感
And that leads to even worse emotions 等等 形成一个向下的螺旋
and so on and so on and so on,in a downward spiral, 直到在某些情况下 我们自我放弃了
until in some cases,we reach resignation, 或用Martin Seligman的话来说 就是"习得性无助"
or in Martin Seligman's words,learned helplessness. 现在 想想那些自尊心强的人
Now think of someone who has high self-esteem, 他们很有自信
high level of self-confidence. 我相信自己 我认为我能做好
I believe in myself.I think I can do well. 那样会导致高水平的激励
That leads to high level of motivation. 记得Marva Collins是怎么做的吗?
Remember what Marva Collins does? 我们讲过的关于信仰的模型
The model that we talked about under belief, 自我实现预言
self-fulfilling prophecies- 能提高个人动机和导致强烈的情感
that leads to high levels of motivations,strong emotions. 我充满动力
I'm energized. 也反过来引发更多的行动 就是B 行为
And that in turn leads to more action- the B,the behaviors. 因为我做得更多 我应对的就更多
Because I act more,I do more,I cope more. 我更多地把自己置于水平线上
I put myself on the line more. 那我对自己的积极评价就会更高些
I'm much more likely to have more positive evaluation of myself, 因此也会产生更多积极情绪等等
which leads to more positive emotions and on and on and on, 呈现一个上升的螺旋
in an upward spiral. 也就是Barbara Fredrickson所说的螺旋
The spiral that Barbara Fredrickson talks about 他在"拓延-建构"中谈到
in the Broaden-and-build,the spiral that Bandura talks about 自我能效时所提到的螺旋
when he discusses self-efficacy. 既然涉及到这方面 就很有必要介绍一下了
When we intervene,it's important to introduce, 可以的话 三点我都想说说
if possible,all three. 从哪里说起都可以
And we can start anywhere. 我举个例子 例如一个有社交恐惧症的人
So let's take an example- someone with socialphobia, 一个害怕社交活动 不善与人交际的人
someone who is afraid to be out there,in front of people. 治疗这种症状的一种方法…
One way to deal with it- 我们先从A说起 就是影响 也就是情感
let's begin with the A,the Affect,the emotion. 其中一方面是药物治疗
One way to deal with it is through medication 直接影响我们的情绪
that goes directly to our emotions. 另一方面是冥想
Another way of dealing with it is meditation, 同样直接影响我们的情绪
which also affects our emotions directly. 有些人比较适合第一种 有的适合第二种
Some people benefit more from one,or from the other- 这取决于他的状况有多极端
depends on how extreme the situation is. 这是A 影响
But that's the A,the Affect. 另一种治疗方法 行为
One way of dealing with it,behavior, 通过所谓的认知行为疗法来进行 曝光
is through what's called in cognitive behavioral therapy,exposure 逐步将自己曝光在产生这种恐惧的刺激物前
which is gradual exposure to stimuli that create that phobia. 首先 先走出家门10码
So initially I'll walk,you know,10 yards out of my home. 先通过想象来曝光
Initially exposure through the imagination 之后付诸实践
and I include it under behavior, 因为我们的大脑分不清楚…
because the mind does know the difference 想象和现实的差异
between the imaginary and the real. 逐渐走出更远
So gradually being exposed to it. 随着时间推移 曝光度越来越高
Over time being exposed more and more, 直到我可以去到一个商场
until I can go out to a mall 并再也没有一年前那种焦虑
and not experience the same anxiety that I did a year ago. 这就是行为治疗法
So that's through behavior. 很有效 曝光的方法
Very effective- the exposure technique. 最后 在治疗过程中还能介入认知
And finally,you can also intervene through cognition in therapy, 来处理不理智的想法 心理困惑
in dealing with irrational thoughts,psychological traps, 那三个M "我有将事情放大吗
the three M's- "Am I magnifying? The extent. 我有轻视了自己的一些才能吗?
Am I minimizing something? 例如小瞧了自己在与人相处方面的成功
For example,my successes in working with people. 我有在编造事实 想象情景吗?
Or am I making up? Imaginary scenarios. 本可以更现实地看待的事情 我有将它灾难化吗?
My catastrophizing events when I can have a more realistic view." 这就是我的想法 认知
So that's my thinking about it,the cognition. 跟你们说说我克服某种困难的做法
Let me show you a personal example of something that I dealt with 你们知道 我天生就很容易焦虑
So as you know,born through genes- high levels of anxiety. 我很容易焦虑
Very prone to it. 容易吃惊 容易被惊吓 现在好一点了
Startle very easily- still,less today, 但还是会容易吃惊
but still to some extent today. 以前参加壁球比赛时非常紧张
Used to get very nervous in squash matches. 在重要比赛时常常呼吸困难
Used to choke often,when I was playing important games. 但我面对的事实是
And that's something that in front of, 要在观众面前讲话 非常紧张和焦虑
speaking in front of an audience,got very nervous and anxious. 我决定要…
And this is something that I decided 克服这种心理
that I really wanted to deal with. 我面临的最大困难不是其他 而是焦虑
More than any other things that I was facing.The thing anxiety. 那我是怎么做的呢 我先从C 认知说起
So what did I do? Let me begin first with the C,Cognition. 我分析了我日记中的情况
What I did- I analyzed the situation in my journal. 利用学校咨询机构
I used the Bureau of Study Counsel. 学习并研究了关于三个M的知识
I learned and studied about the three M's, 那三种不理智的想法
the irrational thoughts- 将事情扩大化 缩小化 编造情景 灾难化
magnifying,minimizing,making up,catastrophizing. 通过认知 我得到了很大的帮助
And through cognition,it helped a lot. 但那远远不够
That wasn't enough. 学习了C之后 我开始学习A 影响
After the C,I went to the A,the Affect. 影响是通过身体锻炼来实现的
And the Affect was for me physical exercise. 直到今天 早上我还跑过步
You know,even today,this morning,at home,I ran. 我锻炼身体是因为…
I exercise because 它能大大降低我们的焦虑水平
it significantly lowers anyone's levels of anxiety. 可以说如果我不锻炼身体 我的口才…
And I can tell a significant difference in my talks 一定不会像现在这么好
if I don't exercise. 甚至在三四周前 我儿子David身体不适
So even three or four weeks ago,David,my son was unwell 周二早上我要先带他去看医生
and I had to take him to the doctor first thing Tuesday morning. 没有时间锻炼 我那天讲课就感觉到了
Didn't have time to exercise.Actually felt it in the lecture. 我觉得更紧张 更焦虑 明显不一样
I was more nervous,more anxious.Makes a big difference. 像我们开学时讲的一样
As we'll talk about,after break, 锻炼的效果基本和吃抗焦虑药效果一样
it literally has the same effect as taking an anti-anxiety pill. 因此锻炼对我的情绪产生直接的影响
So exercise was certainly there,work directly on my emotion. 瑜伽 在我处理焦虑和…
Yoga.Helped me tremendously 降低焦虑水平上发挥了很大的作用
in dealing with anxiety and lowering that level. 这是情感上的
So this was the emotional. 另一样是音乐 放松的音乐
The other thing,music.Relaxing music. 你们知道我喜欢什么音乐 就不重复了
You know my taste in music.I don't need to repeat it again. 我和Tammy结婚后 就搬到了一起住
So actually when Tammy and I got married,we moved in together. 她简直不相信我收藏什么样的CD
She couldn't believe my collection of CDs. 她说"你看起来不像这么容易焦虑的人"
She said "you don't look that anxious". 因为我买的CD是…
Because I had,um, "世界上最放松的经典音乐"
"The Most Relaxing Classical Music in the World", "放松音乐" "降低焦虑的音乐"
"Music for Relaxation","Music for Dealing with Anxiety", 全是些安静的音乐 整个架子都是
silent quiet music- I mean,a whole shelf of the relax... 但它们的确对我有帮助 让我得到放松
But they relax me! They really help me. 最后是行为 我介绍一下行为
And finally,behavior.Introducing behavior. 通过曝光来治疗恐惧 先是做演讲
So it is through exposure.Initially giving a talk. 因为我想当老师
Because I want to be a teacher. 我先给壁球队演讲 给我的家人演讲
Giving a talk to my squash team.Giving a talk to my family. 反正是在那些我感觉安心的地方
Places that were safe for me. 给任何愿意听的人演讲
Giving a talk to anyone who would listen. 从开始的少数人慢慢增加听众数量
Initially small groups and gradually building it up. 通过想象来曝光
Exposure through the imagination. 再强调一次
Once again, 那种想象久而久之会让人变得更自信
the imaginary thing and over time becoming more  confident. 另一样对我极具意义的事是
Another thing that for me was very significant 作为大学生 在课堂上公开发言
as an undergrad here- speaking up in section. 我不敢公开发言
I was terrified of speaking up. 当我决定那样做 我肯定
And when I decided to do that,I had no doubt in my mind 所有人都能听到我的心跳声
that everyone in section could hear my heart beat. 因为它就在我脑海中
Because it was in my head. 然而 逐渐地
And yet,gradually, 我慢慢地越来越敢于发言
I spoke up a little bit more and a little bit more, 通过自我知觉理论
and then through self-perception theory, 情况变得越来越好
it actually got better and better and better. 这些事情我一直在坚持做
And I still do all these things. 我还在做瑜伽 定期做运动
I still do yoga.I still do exercise regularly. 我还有参加认知行为治疗
I still engage in the CBT approach,the 3 M's. 我一直有写日记 内容主要和上述三件事有关
I keep a journal,which combines very often all three. 我还会听放松音乐 很有用
And I listen to relaxing music.And it works.It works. 改变并不容易 非常困难 需要很多时间 然而
Now change is not easy.It is hard.It takes time.However, 但那并不代表 这过程本身没有乐趣
that doesn't mean that the process itself cannot be enjoyable. 并不是说改变了就会快乐
It's not OK when I've changed then I'll be happy. 这过程本身就非常值得
The process itself is extremely,potentially,extremely rewarding 有时很困难 但非常值得
Sometimes difficult.Potentially,very rewarding. 那旅程本身就跟目的地一样重要
The journey as well as the destination. 关于改变的另一要点是
The other important thing to remember about change- 这话引用自一个人的作品
this is taken from the work of, 她研究精神分析学
really the person who took the psycho-analysis 并把这门学科提升到了积极层面 Karen Horney
and transformed it into a more positive approach- Karen Horney, 我之前提到过她
who I mentioned before. 她认为 神经症精神病
What she says about neurosis 不可能完全治愈
is that neurosis never go away completely. 她所说的神经症
And when she says neurosis, 是广义上的定义
she means it in the most,in the broadest sense. 举个例 如果我是个完美主义者
So for example,if I am a perfectionist, 我心里会有一些完美主义思想
I'll always have some perfectionism in me. 春假后 我们会谈这问题
And we'll talk about it after the break. 如果我有焦虑倾向 我永不会成为…
If I am prone to anxiety,I'll never be,you know, 达赖喇嘛 不可能 因为我永远都会焦虑
the Dalai Lama,unlikely.It'll always be there. 它随时可能被任何事激发
And it'll always be potentially triggered by any event. 她说"没关系 那很正常
And she says "that's OK.That's natural. 这是人之常情"我们要接受它
That's human." And we need to accept it. 因为如果我们不接受它
Because if we don't accept it, 我们就会一直感到沮丧
then we'll be constantly frustrated. 因为我们想完全改变
Because we want to change completely, 或是期待我们的伴侣完全改变
or expect our partner to change completely. 这非常困难 不切实际 需要时间 要循序渐进
Very difficult.Unrealistic.It takes time.It's gradual. 我们也需要学习 可以学习享受这过程
We need to also learn.And we can learn to enjoy the process. 19世纪40年代梭罗说过:"我没有看到过
Henry David Thoreau,1840s: "I know of no more encouraging fact 更使人振奋的事实了
than the unquestionable ability of man 人类无疑是有能力来有意识地提高他自己的生命的
to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor. 能画出某一张画
It is something to be able to paint a particular picture, 雕塑出某一个肖像 美化某几个对象 是很了不起的
or to carve a statue,and so to make a few objects beautiful; 但更加荣耀的事是能够塑造或画出
but it is far more glorious to carve and paint 那种氛围与媒介来 从中能使我们发现
the very atmosphere and medium through which we look, 而且能使我们正当地有所为
which morally we can do. 能影响当代的本质的 是最高的艺术"
To affect the quality of the day,that is the highest of arts." 再强调一次 重要的是过程而非结果
Again,it's the process; it's not the outcome that matters more. 结果会让人有短暂快乐
The outcome will lead to a spike 但很快就会回归到基础水平
but will very quickly to go back to our base level. 是进行这些活动的这个过程…
It's the process of actually doing those activities, 事件A B C这些过程让人更快乐
the As,the Bs,and the Cs that will lead to a happier- 而并非完美 并非最快乐 而是更快乐地生活
not perfect,not happiest,but happier life. 需要时间来雕刻出生活的雕像
Over time,it takes time to carve out live statue, 切掉多余的石头
chipping away the excess stone, 破除限制 打造美好的生活
the limitations and building a beautiful life. 这不仅是最高形式的艺术
It is not only the highest of art, 我认为这还是高级的科学
it is also- I would argue,a high science. 那就是心理科学
And that is the science of psychology. 现在我继续往下讲
I want to move on now.Move on and talk about... 等等 好了
One second.Here we go. 我想探讨一个论题
I want to talk about a topic that is related to, 关于整个改变…
very much related to the whole change, 关于整个改变过程的论题
to the whole change process. 那就是设定目标
And that is goal setting. 现在 我问你们 这里有多少人…
Now,question for you: how many people here- 如果你是这样的就举手
put your hand up if this applies to you- 你是否想变得更有效率 更少拖延
do you want to become more efficient and procrastinate less? 是的话 请举手
If it's true for you,put your hand up. 一 二 三 四 五 六…好了
One,two,three,four,five,six...OK. 现在举起你的手
Put your hand up now 如果你希望自己没那么紧张 更冷静
if you want to experience less stress and be calmer, 无论是不是要期末考 好
whether it's during an exam period or not.OK. 一 二…好
One,two...OK. 如果你举过一次手
Now if you put your hand up for one of these questions, 就该留下来
you should stay. 如果你两次都举手
If you put up your hand for both questions, 就不仅要留下来 还要打起精神来听
you should not only stay,you should stay awake. 因为我们接下来的两节课
Because what we are going to talk about of 要谈的是 目标的重要性
the next two classes is the importance of goals 以及目标如何帮我们处理压力
and how they can help us deal with stress, 如何帮我们处理拖延问题
how they can help us deal with procrastination, 我们如何变得更有效率 不是超级有效率
how we can become more efficient- not perfectly so. 两周之后
By the end of the two weeks, 你们不会变成上好油的机器
you are not going to a well-oiled machine. 你们只会变成更快乐的人
You are just going to be a happier human being- 思考很重要
just think is a lot. 因此一开始
So first of all, 我们会探讨目标设定 首先
the topic that we'll talk about under goal setting- first, 理解目标设定的理论及实践
understand the theory and the practice of goal setting: 它的书本意义及社会意义
the Ivory tower and the Main Street of it; 第二 我们怎样处理压力
second,how do we deal with stress- 下节课我们会探讨这个
we'll talk about this in the next class; 最后 我想我们没时间谈这问题
and finally,I don't think we have time for this, 但我还是做了课件
but I'm still leaving up the powerpoints there just 让你们自己看 我在书里有详尽说明的
so you can look at it,and I elaborate on it in the book. 从物质观念到幸福观念
Moving from material perception to happiness perception, 基本上是关于我在我的书里
which is essentially about what I talked about 第七冥想:幸福革命的章节里谈到的
in the last meditation of the book,The Happiness Revolution 以及所发生的内部变革
and the internal revolution that can take place. 我知道你们在放假前没多少时间了
I know you don't have time for before break, 但我还是准备了相关的材料
but you still have the material on it. 我们就从理论和实践开始吧
So let's begin with theory and practice. 我现在想做的仅仅是说服你们
What I want to do now is convince you,very simply, 去设立目标 说服你们这是很重要的
to set goals,convince you that it is important 你们要在作业上写出来
and yet you are going to do it for,your response papers. 你们已经开始这么做
You have already started doing it, 但我真的想让你们明白 作为一种生活方式
but I really want to convince you,as a way of life, 应该不断设定目标
setting goals regularly, 不管是为工作或私生活
whether it's in business,whether in your personal life. 首先 我会试图说服你们
First,I'm going to do it by convince, 向你们展示关于设定目标及工作表现的研究
showing you the research on setting goals 其次就是目标设定与幸福的研究
and performance and second,setting goals and happiness- 它是如何帮助我们赚取社会财富
how it contribute to our success in the conventional  
currency, 以及终极财富
as well as in the ultimate currency. 非常简单 设定目标的人一般…
Quite simply,people who set goals are generally, 掌控其他事都比较成功
controlling for other things,more successful. 为什么?
Why? 一个重要的原因是 因为目标能使我们专注
One of the main reasons is because what goals do is they  
focus us 通常来说
Very often, 我们常四处奔波 不知道往哪个方向走
we are all over the place; we are not sure where we are  
going. 如果我们不知道方向
And if we don't know where we are going, 就不可能到达目的地 而专注能让我们找到方向
we are unlikely to get there.And the focus gets us directed. 这能带来额外的资源
It brings forth resources- 外部和内部资源 帮助我们达成目的
external and internal resources- that are necessary to get  
there. Abraham Maslow说:"专注于一个任务可以…
Abraham Maslow: "Being focused on a task produces  
organization 在个体及自然环境中提高组织效率"
for efficiency both within the organism and in the  
environment." 目标的作用非常显著
Quite remarkable how goals actually work. 我们设定目标时 或向自己灌输某种思想时
When we set goals,when we enter something, 无论是私人的还是公开的
whether it's privately but eve better- publicly, 我们心中或身边都会有些什么变化
things begin to happen inside us as well as around us. 而且 目标对工作表现及幸福感有重大影响
Also,goals contribute to performance and well-being 因为目标会让我们更具适应力
because they strengthen our resilience. 还记得第二节课我们探讨过适应力吗?
Remember the second class when we talked about resilience? 那些孩子成功的其中一个要素是
One of the things that extinguish those kids who were  
successful, 排除艰难的外部环境的影响
despite difficult external circumstances, 就是他们的适应性强
was the fact that they were resilient, 其中一个显著特征是
and one of the distinguishing characteristics 他们会设定目标
was they set goals for themselves. 他们是以未来为导向的
They were future-oriented. 不但思考过去 没人帮助他们学习
Not only thinking about the past,being "learned helpless"- 学习适应没人帮助的情况 专注于未来
learning to be helpless,but focusing on the future. 尼采曾写道 只要我们有目标
Nietzsche once wrote that if we have a what for, 一切皆有可能
every how becomes possible. 只要我们有目标 一切皆有可能
When we have the what for,every how becomes possible.And 我们更能克服困难
we are much more likely to overcome difficulties and hardships, 如果我们设定了目标 任务或是我们在意的事
if we have a goal,a mission,something that we care about, 以及我们想实现的事
something that we want to attain. 目标让我们更成功
Goals make us more successful 就跟积极信念发挥作用的原因一样
for the exact same reason that positive beliefs do. 有目标就代表
What we are doing with goals with declaring 我们相信我们会得到某样东西
that we believe we are going to get something. Roger Bannister宣称
Roger Bannister declared, 他会打破四分钟的纪录
said that he would break the 4 minute barrier. 爱迪生曾说过 到1879年12月31日
Thomas Edison said that by the 31 of December,1879, 他会发明出电灯
he would generate light from electricity. 设定目标有助于成功
Setting goals makes it more likely to come true. 因为我们的思维不喜欢
Because our mind does not like when the reason inconsistency 内部和外部不一致
between what is inside and what is outside. 而希望能相一致
It wants there to be match. 如果我相信一个目标 对外宣告这个目标
And if I believe in a goal and I declare a goal, 那外部事物就会趋向于与这目标相一致
the outside is likely to match that. 但正如我们探讨过的 并不会完全一致
Again,not 100 percent correlation as we've discussed, 但一定更有可能发生
but certainly making it much more likely to happen, 这让我们更容易成功
making us much more likely to be successful. 这个背包是什么?
Now what is the knapsack? 想象一下 你去远足
Imagine the following: you go on a road trip. 你背着一个背包
And you have a knapsack on your back. 你遇到一道墙 一个障碍物
And you reach a wall,a barrier. 你会怎么做?
What do you do? Well, 遇到那道墙时你可以有很多应对方法
there are many things that you can do when you reach that  
wall. 那墙又高又长
And the wall is long and high. 其中一种做法是"太可惜了"然后调头走
One way is to say,"OK,pity" and turn around. 也就是说 避开那道墙
In other words,avoid that wall. 另一种方法是 拿出锤子
Another thing we can do is take out our sledgehammer 试着把它敲碎
and try to break it down. 还有另一种方法是
Another thing that we can do before we do any of the other  
things 把背包扔过墙去
is take our knapsack and throw it over the wall. 把背包扔过墙去
Take our knapsack and simply throw it over the wall. 为什么?因为必需品是发明创造的源泉
Why? Because the necessity is the mother of inventions. 我需要背包来继续 需要我的背包
I need my knapsack to continue.I need my knapsack. 我需要它 而现在它在墙的另一边 我别无选择了
I want it.And now it's over the wall.I have no choice. 但要越过这道墙 要么把它敲碎
But to get over that wall,whether it's by breaking it down, 要么找一条路绕过它 从下方或是上方
whether it's by finding a way around it,under it or over it. 突然间 我会想出几个办法
But suddenly,I will come up with solutions 这些办法都是我之前没想到的
that I have not seen before and this is how it works. 目标起的作用十分显著 而出于同一个原因
It's remarkable- how it works- for the exact same reason 当你宣告一个目标 例如"我想买电脑"
that when you declare a goal such as "I want to buy a computer". 那你就会发现到处都是电脑广告
Suddenly you see computer ads all around you, 你以前从没在这些地方看过电脑广告
whereas before you didn't see computer ads. 或是说你想买某种车
or let's say you want to buy specific car. 一时间 你会发现到处是这种车
Suddenly you see that specific car all around you 你以前从没看过的
while you didn't see it before. 为什么?因为我们一起创造现实
Why? Because we co-create our reality 通过大胆地提出疑问
through our questions to a great extent. 还记得一直在车上的那些孩子吗?
Remember the children on the bus were there all along, 你们没看到他们 直到我设下目标
but you didn't see them until I presented a goal to you 让你们数出车上的孩子数量
which was to count the number of children on the bus 然后孩子们就变得显而易见
And then suddenly it was so clear 就在你眼前
that it was right in front your eyes. 而之前你们就当他们不存在 这就是目标所起的作用
Before,they didn't exist for you.That's what a goal does. 如果我宣布 我要越过这道墙
If I declare that I have to get over the wall, 我的问题就是"要如何越过这道墙"
and my question is "how do I get over this wall". 而不是去想"这是否有可能"
It's not thinking about "is it possible or is it not  
possible". 而是想"我要怎样越过它"
It's rather "how can I get over this wall". 这个问题开启了无数机会
This question opens up opportunities, 有很多是我之前没发现的机会
many of which I have not seen before. 忽然间 车上的孩子就出现在我眼前
Suddenly the children on the bus are right in front of me. 忽然间 墙上的一个洞出现在我眼前
Suddenly a hole in the wall is right in front of me. 忽然间 我看到了一把之前没看到的锤子
Suddenly I see a sledgehammer that I didn't see before, 就在我旁边
right next to me. 必需品是发明创造的源泉
Necessity is the mother of inventions. 如果我们问对了问题 就能开启无数机会
If we ask the right questions,it opens up opportunities. 另一件起作用的东西是 言语的力量
The other thing that's at work here is the power of the  
word: 言语创造世界 要有光
words create worlds.Let there be light. 我们在宗教中看过这典故 上帝说要有光 就有光
We've seen it in religion.And there was light. 言语创造世界
Words create the world. "约翰福音"中写道:一开始先有言语
Book of John: in the beginning was the word. 但不只在宗教里是如此 看看这伟大的国家
But it's not just in religion.Look at this great country. 美国被宣布存在 言语有其力量
The United States was declared into existence.Words have  
power. 它们有某种意义 尤其是当言语对我们意义重大时
They have meaning,especially when the words are meaningful  
to us 当我们宣布的目标对我们意义重大时
when the goals that we declare are meaningful to us, 就更有可能实现
they are much more likely to come true. 概念和构想之间的关联
The connection between concept and conceive 不仅是语源的 而且还是形而上学的
is not just etymological,it is also metaphysical. 这也是真实的
It is also real. 因为当我们宣告某事 保留某事
Because when we declare something,when we save something, 就更可能成真
it is much more likely to become a reality. 基本上 言语能在我们的脑海里塑造一幅画面
What words do is essentially create an image in our minds, 尤其是我们想象目标时
especially when we imagine the goal. 它在我们脑海中创造一幅画面 而我们并没意识到
It creates an image in our mind and the mind doesn't know 该想象和现实之间的差距
the difference between the imaginary and the real. 我们的思维想让两者统一 目标就是这样起作用
And the mind wants consistency- that is what goals do. 它们让我们更容易让两者统一
They help us create consistency. 现在我念一段摘录
I want to read you an excerpt that, 我在书里谈了很多相关的话题
I talk about many of these things in the book so for some of  
you, 你们可以看看来参考一下
this may be a repetition. 但现在我要念一段Murray的话
But I want to read you an excerpt from W.H.Murray, 他带领苏格兰探险队前往喜玛拉雅山
who led the Scottish expedition to the Himalayas, 是个成功卓越的登山家
one of those prominent,accomplished climbers of all time, 曾登上珠穆朗玛峰
climbed the Everest. 他说
Here's what he says, 关于他的探险旅程 他写道:
in his writing about the expeditions that he took: "在所有创造的过程中 都有一个基本真理
"Concerning all acts of creation there is one elementary truth, 对它的忽视使得无数优秀创意和计划夭折
the ignorance of which kills countless ideas and splendid plans: 那就是一个人一旦全身心投入
That the moment one definitely commits oneself, 就会触动冥冥中的天意
then providence moves too. 很多帮助他实现目标的事
All sorts of things occur to help one 若非这样也不会发生
that would not have otherwise occurred. 这样的决定会带来一系列事件
A whole stream of events issues from the decision, 各种意料之外 对他有所帮助的事件
raising in one's favor all manner of unforeseen incidents 人和事物
and meetings and material assistance 这完全是他之前没有想到的
which no man would have dreamed would come his way. 从歌德的诗文中我有深刻体会:
I have learned a deep respect for one of Goethe's couplets: '无论你能做什么或梦想什么 去做吧'
'Whatever you can do,or dream you can,begin it!' 勇敢带来智慧 魔力和力量"
Boldness has genius,magic,and power in it." 它为什么会起作用 如何起作用 我们不确定 反正就有用
Why it works,how it works- we are not really sure,but it works. 就像是如果你说要买电脑
Just like when you declare you are looking for computer, 就会看到很多机会
suddenly you see all these opportunities, 投入也是同样的道理
the same with commitments. 我们投入了 很多事就会接踵而来
When we commit,things begin to happen. 我们开始发现外部资源
We begin to identify external resources 以及内部资源
as well as internal resources. 会发现之前没看到的东西
Things that we didn't see before. 因为我的问题变成了"我怎样能成功"
Because my question becomes "how can I succeed". 然后车上的孩子
And then children on the bus 或时钟的时间忽然变得清晰可见
or the time on the clock suddenly become visible to us. 我们有能力成功
And we are able to succeed... 比以前更有可能成功 言语创造世界
Much more likely to succeed than before.Words create worlds. 所以这与成功息息相关 书上有写
So this is about success.Very well documented. 你们的一些阅读材料与之相关
Some of your readings are related to this. 从整体上设定目标 且从其他方面实现目标的人
People who set goals generally,controlling from other factors, 更成功 无论是工作方面
are more successful,whether it's in business, 还是个人生活方面 目标至关重要
whether it's in other personal lives.Goals matter. 他们不仅对"硬通货"重要
They don't just matter though for the "hard currency". 对"终极财富"也很重要
They also matter for the "ultimate currency"- 也就是幸福
the currency of happiness. 被正确理解的目标
Goals properly understood, 被正确理解的目标会让人幸福
goals properly understood,lead to happiness. 这里我强调"被正确理解"
And I emphasize "properly understood". 为什么?因为我们知道实现目标
Why? Because we know that attaining goals, 实现目标本身
the attainment of goals does not in 并不会带来幸福
and of itself lead to happiness. 没错 得到职位我会有短暂的幸福
Yes,getting tenure will lead to a spike of my well being, 但很快我就会回归基础水平
but very quickly I'll go back to my base level. 中了彩票或是赚大钱或…
Winning a lottery or making a lot of money,or getting a, 升职 都会让我短暂地感到快乐
or getting promoted at work will lead to a spike in my well being 但不会带来长期的持续的幸福
but it will not lead to long lasting happiness. 我们知道那是短暂的快乐
So that's temporary- we know that. 因此我们知道实现目标不会带来幸福
So we know that attainment of goals does not lead to happiness. 那什么能带来幸福?
What does lead to happiness? 充分理解目标的正确作用
Understanding the proper role of goals. 要明白到
And understanding that 不是实现目标带来幸福
it's not the attaining of a goal that leads to happiness, 而是拥有目标让人幸福
but the having of a goal that leads to happiness. 两年前 我教积极心理学
So two years ago,when I taught positive psychology, 一个非常重要的学者出了本书
a book came out by very important scholar 关于幸福的书 他是达赖喇嘛的左右手
in the area of happiness,who's the Dalai Lama's right hand man. 他就是翻译家Ricardo Matthieu
He's translator,Ricardo Matthieu. 推出一本关于幸福的好书
Wonderful book on happiness came out. 我们在Williams James大楼展开了一场辩论
And we,in Williams James Hall 1,engaged in a debate- 那是一次哈佛学生和全体教职员的全体活动
was an event for Harvard students and faculty. 我们参与了辩论 题为"幸福:东方与西方"
And we engaged in a debate- "Happiness: East and West". 我们很多意见不谋而合
And we agreed on many things- 你们知道 我经常冥想
as you know,I meditate regularly, 我当然非常认同
and certainly believe 佛教心理学的力量
in the power of a lot of the Buddhist psychology. 然而 我们对目标的意见不一致
However,the one thing that we disagreed on was goals. 我们意见有分歧
That's the one thing we disagree. 因为在佛教方面 根据很多说法
Because in Buddhism,according to many of the  
interpretations- 不是全部 但很多说法认为
not all,many of the interpretations, 我们想实现的状态是身外无物
the state we want to reach is a state of non-attachment. 那个状态中 我们不会想要拥有身外之物
A state where we will not have something external that we want, 渴望的东西
that we desire, 也不会有现在的这个课程
that we will be completely present in the here and now. 我想或许那是个非常理想的状态
Now I think it's a wonderful ideal perhaps, 但我一直认为 那是不现实的
but what I argued and what I still argue is that it's unrealistic 作为人类 我不认为
As human beings,I do not believe- 经过30年来每天八小时的冥想
maybe after 30 years of meditating for 8 hours a day, possible- 我不相信我们能实现那种
but I do not believe that we can reach a state 身外无物的状态
where we are not attached. 设定目标是与外界关联的一个例子 因为
And setting goals is an example of attachment.Because 当我说想赢这场比赛 或我想这门课考试优秀
when I say I want to win this championship or I want to get an A- 或我想在银行找份工作
in this course or I want to get a job in this bank, 这些就是确切的目标
this is a goal which means by definition 让我与结果联系起来
that I'm attached to the outcome. 如果我没与结果联系起来 我就不会在乎 它就不重要
If I wasn't attached,if I didn't care then,it wouldn't matter. 我觉得这不仅对成功很重要
And I think it's not only important for success, 对幸福也很重要
it is also important for happiness. 因此我不能认同
So that's where I differ to a great extent 佛教的说法
from some of the Buddhist interpretations 他们认为身外无物是种无欲无求的状态
on non-attachment of being in a desire-less state. 然而我们有着相似的看法
However,where we are similar in our understanding 专注于当下
is the focus on the present. 被正确理解的目标的作用是
Goals properly understood their role 解放我们 让我们享受当下
is to liberate us to enjoy the present. 这意味着什么?例如你去远足
What does this mean? Let's say you go off on a road trip. 你不知道自己要去哪
And you have no idea where you are going. 你没目标 心中没有方向
You don't have a goal.You don't have a destination in mind. 你就不大可能
You are less likely rather than more likely, 不大可能享受旅程
less likely to enjoy the journey. 因为每分钟你都在左顾右盼
Because every minute you'll look left or right or ahead 不知道是否错过什么
to see if you are not falling over the stage; 如果你知道要去哪
whereas if you know where you are going, 你有方向感
you have a sense of direction. 你就被解放了
You are liberated. 你就更可能享受旅程
You are much more likely to enjoy the process, 才可以欣赏到路边的鲜花
the flower on the side as well. 想想你们的生活 有些时期里不知道何去何从
Think about your lives- periods that you have no idea, 对你们很多人来说 此刻就是这样
or for many of you,I know,it's happening right now. 你不知道明年会去哪
You have no idea where you are going next year. 目前对大多数人来说 还是没关系
Now for a while,for most people,it's OK.It's fine. 但一阵子后 你想知道要去哪里
But after a while,you want to know where you are going. 因为当你专注于某事
Because when you are immersed in something, 你就会有更清晰的方向感
you have a clearer sense of direction. 你更容易开心
You are much more likely to be happy, 这就能解释 为什么很多人退休后
which explains why so many people,when they retire, 变得不大开心
become less happy, 尽管他们多年来一直期待着退休
even though they've been dreaming of being retired for many years 到他们真的退休后 就变得闷闷不乐
When they actually retire,they become less happy. 那些退休后更开心的人
The ones who are happier when they retire are the ones 为自己设定了目标
who actually set goals for themselves, 或是上一门课 或是学新知识
whether it's taking a class,whether it's learning something new, 或是和亲人朋友相处更久
whether it's spending more time with family and friends, 他们都有一个目标
but they have a goal, 而不是"让我们享受生活吧 顺其自然"
as opposed to "let's just enjoy ourselves; let's just be". 我们需要目标 结果 未来的导向
We need that goal- this outcome,this future orientation, 那样我们就能更享受此刻
so that we can enjoy the present more. 目标让我们得到解放 才能享受当下
The goals liberate us to enjoy the here and now. 换言之
In other words, 如果你仔细想想 目标是一种手段
if you think about it,the role of goals is actually means. 它们是达到结果的一种手段
They are means toward an end, 结果就是当下的体验
and the end are the present experiences. 再次强调 目标本身
Again,the goals in themselves, 如我们所说的 并不能让我们感到更幸福
as we said,as we discussed,will not make us happier, 无论我们是否能实现这目标
whether attaining of the goal or failing to attain the goal. 我们会经历人生起伏
We'll be on the ups and downs,the vicissitudes. 但如果我们想要基础水平 此刻就是了
But if we want the base level- the base level is the here and now 当下 就是这过程
The present.It's the process. 是我们正经历着的旅程 而不是结果
It's the journey that we're living mostly,not the outcome. 在书中一开始的地方
When I start the book, 我谈及 冠军赛会让我开心
I talk about thinking this rally championship would make me  
happy 的确让我开心了四小时 但之后我又回到基础水平
And it did.For 4 hours.And then back again to base level. 获得终身职位的教授以为
Professors who get tenures think that is 这事会让他们余生都快乐
what would make them happy for the rest of their lives- 那个目标的实现
the attainment of that goal. 其实不然
It doesn't. 他们回到了幸福的基础水平
They go back to base level of happiness, 无论他们是否实现了这个目标
whether they get it,or don't get it. 关键是学习 享受这个过程
The key is to learn,to enjoy the process. 目标的其中一个作用是解放我们
And one of the roles of the goals is to liberate us 那样我们就能享受这个过程
so that we can enjoy the process. 目标是获得结果的手段
Goals are means toward the present end, 这与许多目标理论背道而驰
which is taking a lot of goal theory and turning it around. 这解释了为什么如此多的成功者不快乐
This explains why so many high achievers are unhappy. 这也解释了为什么如此多的成功者
This explains why so many high achievers 沉沦于药品及酒精
turn to drugs and to alcohol. 如今这样的人比以前更多
By the way,today even more so than in the past- 也许是如今我们了解得更多
maybe today we know about it more than in the past. 他们常进心理治疗中心
Going into rehab centers constantly. 那样进进出出
Coming out and going back. 我们问"为什么会这样?"
And we ask ourselves,"why? How could it be?" 表面上看那些人似乎已得到一切
Those people who seemingly have it all. 似乎已得到一切
Who seemingly have it all. 名声 财富 美人 他们想要的任何人
Fame.Fortune.Beauty.Anyone they want. 大部分人梦寐以求的生活
The life that most people in the world dream about. 为什么他们最后还要进心理治疗中心?
How come they end up in a rehab center? 为什么会不开心?现在就来说说原因
How come they are unhappy? Here's the how come. 多年来 他们不断努力向上
You see,for years,when they climb up the ranks, 他们心怀梦想 希望成为名人
when they have the dream of becoming a famous person, 渴望得到别人的尊敬
a person who is admired,revered, 渴望得到一切想要的东西或人
a person who can get anything or anyone almost they want, 当他们梦想这些的时候 他们可能是不开心
when they dream about it,they may be unhappy. 但他们对自己说
But they say to themselves, "好吧 我现在不开心 但我成功后会很开心"
"OK.I'm unhappy now,but I'll be happy when I get there." 然后他们成功了
And then they get there. 他们意识到并没有料想中的开心
And they realize that there's no "there" there. 他们以为那会让他们开心 但没有
They think it would make them happy,but it doesn't. 那时真正的问题才到来
And that's when the real problems begin. 因为到那时他们才开始体会到无助
Because that's when they begin to experience helplessness. 那时他们就会放弃
That's when they become resigned. 那时他们就变得…根据Hamburger的模型
That's when they go into- on the Hamburger model, 他们会患上习得性无助
that's when they go into the learned helplessness 自我放弃和怀疑主义
and resignation and the nihilism. 因为大家都跟他们说
Because everyone has told them 他们实现了这事就会快乐
that once they make it then they'll be happy. 而他们也对自己说过"一实现了这事 就会快乐"
And they told themselves,"once I make it then I'll be happy". 但他们并不为此而更快乐
And they are not any happier for it. 一开始 当刚开始有点名气
Yeah,initially when the fame begins, 他们刚开始走上成功之路
and when they start having things in their way 他们常常梦想成功 当然就会快乐一点
as they always dream,of course they are happier. 但之后他们又回到基础水平
But then they go back to their base level. 当回到基础水平 他们很压抑
And when they go to their base level,they are suppressed, 很沮丧 失望
they are upset,they are disappointed, 更甚的是 他们很害怕
and more than anything,they are scared. 因为不知道怎么办好 但在那之前
Because what now? Until that point, 他们以一种希望支撑着 想着成功后
they were sustained by their hope that when they get there, 他们会很快乐 但他们并没有更快乐
they'll be happy,but they are not happier. 他们很害怕 很迷茫
And they are scared.And they are lost. 他们想寻找解决方法
And they look for solutions, 通常就会脱离正常经验
very often outside of the normal experiences, 脱离常规生活
outside of ordinary life. 那有什么解决方法呢? 常常就是药品和酒精
And where is that? That very often is with drugs and with alcohol 因为那让我们远离枯燥乏味的…
Because that takes us out of our normal day-to-day, 日常生活 无论是好的或坏的
ordinary lives.For good and ill. 这种错误的想法非常普遍 大部分人都如此
This misunderstanding prevalent and most people live that way. 他们认为…这就是为什么
And they think- and this is why 这么多人会经历中年危机
so many people go through mid-life crisis for example. 这不是唯一的原因 却是其中一个原因
It's not the only reason.But it's one of the reasons. 因为有很多非常成功的人
Because there are many people who are pretty accomplished, 他们成功后会说
who have nailed it,and then they say, "那现在怎么办?这就是它带来的快乐吗?"
"what now? Is this all the raise to it?" 是的 它就只能带来这么多快乐 而面临的难题是
Yes,this is all the raise to it.And the challenge 去找出埋藏起来的幸福宝藏
is to identify the treasure of happiness that are embedded, 它就在我们身边
that are there in the it and that are there all around us. 幸福并不在于我们的地位
Again,happiness is not contingent on our status 或银行存款的多少
or the state of our bank account. 它与我们的思维状态有关
It's contingent on our state of mind, 就视乎我们如何看待自己的现状 以及我们专注于何事
of how we interpret our reality,of on what we choose to focus on 想变得更快乐 当下更重要
And to be happier is the present that matters much more. 引用我书中的话:
Quote from my book: "幸福并不是登上山峰
"Happiness is not about making it to the peak of the mountain, 也不是在山的四周没有方向地乱爬
nor is it about climbing aimlessly around the mountain; 幸福是向山峰攀登的过程"
happiness is the experience of climbing toward the peak." 它与设定目标有关
It is about having a goal. 与设定一个终点有关
It is about having a destination in mind, 然后就释放自己 享受过程
and then letting go and enjoying the process. 有很多人和我谈过这问题
You know there are many people who talk to me about it, 每次我都会经历同样的情况
and again I went through the exact same experience. "接下来我要做什么工作呢?"
So OK "what is going to be the next job that I take?" "我该走哪一条路呢?"
"What is going to be the path that I take?" 当他们选了一条路 通常都会后悔
And once they take a path,it is very often they regret, "我应该走另一条路"应该接这一份工作
"I should've taken the other path." Should've taken this job. 不该去那里 我的回答通常是 这并不重要
Should've gone there.And my response to it is it doesn't matter. 对终极财富来说 并不重要
It doesn't,in the ultimate currency,it doesn't matter. 因为如果我接了一份应该做的工作
Because,yeah,let's say I am at a job that I should have taken 我会非常成功
and I would be very successful there.Fine. 当我非常成功 我会很开心
I would enjoy a high when I became very successful. 但那件事并不会让我开心
But that in and of itself would not make me happy. 关键是设定目标
The key is to have the goal. 关键是自身的投入
The key is to have the commitment 对正在做的事的投入
to whatever it is that I'm doing. 就算那种投入每三天变一次也没关系
Now that commitment may change every three days and that's OK. 设定目标 全心投入才是最重要的
It's the having the goals,having that commitment that Nmatters. 如果你选择某条路 却又后悔了
So if you chose certain path and now you regret it, 记住 这不重要的
remember,it really doesn't matter. 走哪条路你都可以开心的 只要你投入了
You can be as happy in both paths as long as you are committed. 因为当我们投入其中
Because when we are committed, 就能享受这旅程
that's when we can enjoy the journey. 而我们投入于何事并不重要
Doesn't matter as much what it is that we are committed to, 当然必须是道德的事
provided of course that is moral 不能伤害他人
and it's not about hurting others, 因为那样的话 最终不但会伤害他人
which ultimately doesn't just hurt others- 也会伤害到我们自己
it also hurts ourselves. David Watson在"积极心理学手册"里说
David Watson in "The Handbook of Positive Psychology": "当代研究学者强调
"Contemporary researchers emphasize 追寻目标的过程
that it is the process of striving after goals— 而不是目标的实现
rather than goal attainment per se— 才是实现幸福的关键"
that is crucial for happiness and positive affectivity." 该领域的主要研究学者
And finally,two of the leading researchers in the field, David Myers和Ed Diener说:"幸福感…
David Myers and Ed Diener: "Happiness grows less 在理想情况下的消极体验中的增长
from the passive experience of desirable circumstances 比在有价值的活动
than from involvement in valued activities 以及实现目标的过程中的增长要少"
and progress toward one goal." 这有一首优美的诗
Here is a beautiful poem 由Gwendolyn Brooks所写的:
that I think captures by Gwendolyn Brooks: "不为胜利而活 不为曲终而活
"Live not for battles won / Live not for the-end-of-the-song 为美好过程而活"任何目标都并不重要
/ Live for the along." It's not any goals that matter. 并不是所有目标都一样
It's not any goals that...Not all goals are created equal. 就我们当下所处的境况来说
And here's what we do get to a place 思考你的目标非常重要
where it's important to think about your goals. 没错 投入是最重要的
Yes,the commitment is the most important, 但有某些目标是比其他更好的
but there are certain goals that are better than others: 简单地说 自我和谐的目标
self-concordant goals,very briefly, 在你们的阅读材料里有写 是最根本的目标
because -it's in your readings- are essentially goals that 和你的个人兴趣和价值观
are aligned with your personal interests and values- 还有你在乎的东西相融合
things that you care about. 做对你来说重要的事
Doing things that are important to you. 举个例 就读医学预科 是因为
So for example,doing premed because 你想要当医生 救死扶伤
what you really really want to be is a doctor and treat people. 学习经济学是因为市场让你着迷
Studying economics because the market fascinates you. 你想做与之有关的工作
And you want to engage in work that relates to it. 你对它充满了激情
You are passionate about it. 参加学生组织
Joining a student organization, 是因为你认同他们的使命
because you believe in their mission. 融合你的个人兴趣
Aligned with your personal interests, 和你的价值观 热诚
with your values,with your passion. 这些目标是你自由选择的
These are goals that you choose freely, 而不是由外界所强加的
not goals that are imposed from the outside 不是由某个特定的人
whether it's by someone specific or specific people, 或抽象意义上的社会所强加在你身上
or by abstract society. 不是因为义务或责任而做
And doing it out of a sense of obligation or duty. 而是去做你内心深处最在意的事
It's to do things that you care about deeply from within. 换句话说 这些是你想做的事
In other words,these are things that you want to do, 或是你感到 察觉到自己想做的事
or that you feel,that you perceive that you want to do, 而不是你不得不做的事
rather than things that you have to do. 我的老师Ohad Kamin 在我大学毕业时
My teacher Ohad Kamin,when I graduated from college, 我不知道何去何从
and I was debating- I didn't know which direction to go, 而我的老师给我说了这话:
said to me the following- he said: "这是一个50岁的人给你的建议"他当时50岁
"here is the advice from a 50 year old." - He was 50 at the time. 他说"找出你能做的事
He said,"Identify the things that you can do. 然后再从中找出你想做的事
And then out of those,identify the things that you want to do. 把它们一一写下来
And list them down. 写张清单 长短都无所谓
Make a list- long or short,whatever it is. 接着从你想做的事中
Now out of the things you want to do, 找出你最想做的事
identify those things that you really want to do. 看着这些 从中找出…
And then look at them,and out of those things,identify those 你最最想做的事 然后就做那些事"
that you really really want to do and then do them." 那是我得到过的最好的建议
One of the best advices that I got. 非常简单 但非常重要
Very simple.But so important. 这需要花点时间 认真想想这些事
Again it's to take time aside and to think about those things. 那我的自我和谐目标是什么呢?我的兴趣是什么?
So what are my self-concordant goals? What is the interest of me? 什么对我最具价值?我对什么有激情?
What is valuable to me? What am I passionate about? 我想做什么 而不是我得做什么
What do I want to rather than feel that I have to do? 有时答案并不简单
And sometimes the answers are not easy answers. 有时答案并不中听
Sometimes the answers are not answers that I want to hear. 而其中的含义…
And the implications,the ? that are following 接下来的路可能没有最初的好走
that path may not be as pleasant initially, 因为它越来越崎岖不平
because it made me going against the grain. 它让我去做一些困难的事情
It made me doing something that 别人或环境所造成的困难
yields difficulties from other people or from the environment. 可能不是最受欢迎的选择
It may not be the most popular choice. 我在书里谈到的一个问题是
One of the things that I talk about in the book – 我认为幸福的重要组成部分
I think it's such an important component of happiness, 是精神性
is spirituality. 字典对精神性的定义是
Now the dictionary definition of spirituality is- 其中一个定义是
one of the definitions 对有重大意义的事情的感知
is the real sense of significance of something. 因此如果我发现一些极具意义 极其重要的东西
So if I see something as significant,as important, 意义非凡的 我就对它有种精神性体验
as meaningful,I'm having a spiritual experience engaging in it. 那什么对我意义重大呢?什么对我重要?
So what is significant to me? What is important to me? 要记住
And the thing to keep in mind is that 选择什么 往哪个方向走并不重要
it doesn't matter what I choose,what direction I go in. 如果我选择的东西是自我和谐的
If I choose something that is self-concordant, 和我个人的目标和使命相符合
that is aligned with my personal goals and mission, 我就会过上精神性生活
I will lead a spiritual life. 事实上 一个投资银行家
In fact,an investment banker 从事投资银行业的最合适理由
who goes into investment banking for the right reasons, 是因为他或她在乎这工作
because he/she cares about this work. 因为他们认为这是重要的 因为他们乐在其中
Because they think it's important,because they enjoy it. 因为他们喜欢和数字打交道
Because they love dealing with numbers 喜欢那种刺激感
and having the adrenaline rush. 没错 他们真的享受这工作
And yes,they are people who truly enjoy it. 如果他们是因合适的理由而去做这份工作
If they go in for the right reasons, 那他们就会比一个…
they will lead a much more spiritual life than a monk 不虔诚的僧人有更好的精神生活
who goes into the order for the wrong reasons. 当然 反之亦然
And of course,vice versa. 无论我们选择什么 自我和谐目标
Whatever we choose,the self-concordant goals- 我真的相信
and I truly believe it, 世界会变得更美好
that the world will become a better place, 不仅是个别地方会变得更美好
not just individualized will become a better place, 如果人们追求他们的热情所在 他们的自我和谐目标
if people pursue their passions,their self-concordant goals. 说比做容易
Easier said than done. "实现自我和谐是非常困难的
"Becoming self concordant is a difficult skill, 要求精确的自我知觉能力
requiring both accurate self-perceptual abilities 还有抵抗社会压力的能力
and the ability to resist social pressures 那种压力有时会把人迫往错误的方向"
that may sometimes push one in inappropriate directions." 我们要参与到这些活动当中
And we need to engage in these activities. 为什么?因为人生苦短 人生…抱歉
Why? Because life is short.Life is short.Life is...Sorry. "人生短得完成不了我必须做的事
"Life is too short to do what I have to do; 人生的长度仅够我完成我想做的事"
it's barely long enough to do what I want to do." 越早开始我们想做的事越好
The sooner we start on the want-to,the better. 这不代表你不能对自己说
This does not mean that you can't say to yourself like, "我最想的就是自己做生意
"well my real passion is starting my own business. 为了筹集资金 我会先当顾问
And in order to get the foundation,I will work as a consultant 或是投资银行家两年"这么说没问题
or an investment banker for two years." Nothing wrong with that. 非常好
Perfectly fine. 就算你的兴趣不是一周工作80小时
Even though it's not your passion working 80 hours a week 处理些电子文档 也没关系
in front of an Excel sheet.That's OK. 有时我们需要延迟满足
Sometimes we need to delay gratification. 危险在于
The danger is that 我们的整个人生常处于这种延迟满足的状态
we enter this delayed gratification state for our entire lives. 那就成了一条糟糕的路
And that becomes the red-race (?) path. 这是我们要意识到的
And that is what we need to be aware of. 我们需要记住的
This is what we need to keep in back of our mind. 我想为你们展示一个视频选段
I want to show you a quick video excerpt 选自我最喜欢的一部电影《死亡诗社》
from one of my favorite movies,Dead Poet Society, Robin Williams谈及
where Robin Williams talks about the importance of identifying 定义我们想做的事的重要性
what it is that we were meant to do with our lives, 换言之 就是我们的自我和谐目标
in other words,our self-concordant goals. (死亡诗社电影片段)
(Video clips from Dead Poet Society with captions on the screen) 那么抓紧时间 做你想做的事吧
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:So carpe diem (seize the day).Do what you want. 



 Chapter 12: 面对压力


幸福课的同学们你们好 我们是Fallen Angels
Student:Hi,Positive Psychs.We are Fallen Angels. 这周六 3月15号 是我们在中心剧场的首次公演
This Saturday,March 15,is our debut in Centers. 我们将和哈佛Opportunes乐团共同出演
We are gonna be singing with Harvard Opportunes. 希望能在那时见到你们快乐的脸庞
So We'd love to see all your positive faces there. 周六晚八点
It's Saturday,8 pm. 可以在哈佛票务中心买票
You can get your tickets at the Harvard Box Office, 也可以找Opportunes团员 或者来找你最爱的天使
from any Opportune,or from your favorite Angel. 演唱"谁知道"
(singing PINK "Who Knew") 如果有人曾说三年以后
If someone said three years from now 你早已离去
You'd be long gone 我会站起来将他们推出去
I'd stand up and punch them out 因为他们都是错的
They'd be all wrong 我知道不是这样
I know better 因为你说过会陪我
Cause you said forever 直到永远 谁知道呢
And ever,who knew? 亲爱的 我想你
My darling,I miss you 亲爱的 谁知道
My darling,who knew 我手上有票 下课可以来找我
Student:I have tickets.So find me after class. 每张八美元 来找我吧
They are 8 dollars.Find me. 抓住眼前 及时行乐
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Carpe Diem.Seize the day. 让我们沿着这个理念再深入一点
So let's continue on this path and go a little bit more in depth 探讨一下自我和谐
into this idea of self-concordance. 自我和谐有什么好处呢
What are some benefits of self-concordance? 自我和谐
The first one- 有很多好处 其中第一点非常显而易见
and there are many- the first one is the obvious one. 你不需要成为一个火箭科学家
You don't need to be a rocket scientist 或者社会科学家 就能理解
or even a social scientist to understand that 制定自我和谐的目标可以让我们更快乐
setting self-concordant goals can potentially make us happier. 因为我们在追求自己在意的事
Because we are pursuing something we care about, 更加增加了人生旅途的乐趣
it is more likely to reinforce our enjoyment of the journey. 第二 除了增加幸福感
The second thing,in addition to increasing well being, 当然也跟幸福感紧密相关的是
certainly connected to well being is that very often, 制定自我和谐的目标 整体上制定目标
having self-concordant goals- having goals in general, 但特别制定一些自我和谐的目标
but in particular self-concordant goals, 能解决内在的心理冲突
resolves internal conflicts. 比如说 它可以帮我们解决焦虑
For example- it helps us deal with anxiety, 解决疑惑 解决有关存在的问题
with uncertainty,with existential questions- "我是谁 我在干什么 我为什么在这儿"
"What am I about? What am I doing? Why am I here?" 如果你思考这些 通常是在那种
And if you think about it,very often when we go through periods 我们不确定该走向何方
when we are not sure where we are going, 站在十字路口 前路迷雾重重的时候
where every fork in the road is about ambivalence and uncertainty 这就是有关存在的问题出现的时候
that's when existential questions come up. 这就是犹豫出现的时候
That's when there's uncertainty. 这就是不快乐出现的时候
That's when very often,there's unhappiness, 如果我们知道我们该往哪儿走
whereas when we know what our path is, 就不会有那么多的内在心理冲突
it helps to resolve internal conflict. 我们可以从一个很有趣的角度来看它
An interesting way to think about it 也就是将它与人际间的冲突相对比
is by drawing comparison to interpersonal conflicts. 我们现在讲的是人的内在冲突 是心理内在的
So here we are talking about intra-personal conflicts- within: 焦虑 沮丧 通常会造成类似的后果
anxiety,depression- often a result of that. 有很多关于人际间冲突的研究
But there's a lot of research on interpersonal conflicts. 我在讲到实践唯心主义
And I talked about briefly 以及冲突的解决时简单讲过
when I discussed practical idealism and conflict resolution. 面对冲突的办法
And the way to deal with the conflicts, 面对并解决冲突的最好办法
the best way to deal with the conflicts and resolve them 就是制定一个协调的目标
is to have a super ordinate goal, 使得冲突的双方都参与其中
a goal in which both sides- both conflicting sides engage in 并内在地相互依赖
and are dependent on one another or intra-dependent. 这样就能够解决人际间或组织间的冲突
And that resolves interpersonal or intergroup conflicts. 这是Muzafer Sherif或Elliot Aronson所做的研究
This is work of Muzafer Sherif or Elliot Aronson. 同理 制定目标有助于解决内在冲突
In the same way,having a goal helps to solve internal conflicts, 人内在的心理冲突
intra-personal conflicts. 因为它能让我们暂时忘却那些关于存在的
Because it takes our mind away from those existential, 很重要 但通常很难的问题
often important,but sometimes difficult questions, 尤其是不断出现时
especially when they persist. 它能使我们远离焦虑 远离沮丧
Away from anxiety.Away from depression. 我们能集中精力于我们十分想做的事
And we are focused on something we really,really want to do. 同时 它还增加了成功的可能性
Also,it increases the likelihood of success. 制定了自我和谐目标的人会更有动力
Individuals who set self-concordant goals are more motivated- 他们会更努力地工作
they are more likely to work hard. 他们会全身心地投入到
They are more likely to put their all in- 他们所做的事中去
whatever it is- that they are doing. 从长远来看
In the long term, 那些追求自己热爱事业的人都更容易取得成功
those who pursue their passions are more likely to succeed. 这似乎非常直白
Again,seems pretty straight forward, 显而易见 简直是常识
pretty self-evident common sense. 但我们常说 常识也并不是那么显而易见的
But as we often said,common sense is not that common. 很大程度上说
In many ways, 这种在我们追求自己热爱的事业时
this increased likelihood of success when we pursue the things 成功的可能性的增加 重新定义了"不劳无获"的公理
that we are passionate about defines the "no pain,no gain" maxim 它将其重新定义为如下定理
It defines it and changes it to the following maxim: "愉悦劳作则多获"
"Do it better with pleasure." 如果你要引用 我会否认我说过
Now if you quote me on this,I'll deny it. 如果你给别人看我说这句话的录像
If you show someone the video of me saying it, 我会说这是我的双胞胎兄弟
I'll say that it's my cheesy twin brother who coined it. 但确实是这样
But it's true. 如果我们热爱这项事业 就确实能把它做得更好
We do do it better with pleasure if we pursue our passions. 在实际生活中 同样也有很多关于这个的研究
What happens in practice- again,there's a lot of research on it. 你们读到了一些 我把某些研究编进了书里
You are reading some of it; I elaborate on some of it in the book 有很多研究显示
There's a lot of research that shows that 当我们沉浸于自我和谐的目标时
when we are engaged in a self-concordant goal, 就会更倾向于
we are much more likely 继续追求其他自我和谐的目标
to then continue to pursue self-concordant goals. 因为这样很好 我们更成功了
Because it was good that we were more successful; 我们还不满足 这叫做自我强化
we want more of it.It's self-reinforcing. 不仅是从生活目标的宏观角度来讲是这样
Not just on the macro level of life goals where it does that, 微观角度也是这样 这其实是种涓滴效应
but also on the micro level.And what we see is a trickle effect. 制定了自我和谐目标的人其实
People who set self-concordant goals were actually doing better 在非自我和谐的方面也做得更好了
in areas that were not necessarily self-concordant. 打个比方
For instance- 比如说你是一个大学生合唱团的成员
let's say you are a member of an undergrad A ccapella group. 你很喜欢这件事
And you really enjoy it. 从自我和谐的角度来看 这是你所信仰的事
In self-concordant,it's something that you believe in. 是你喜欢的事 是你感兴趣的事
Something you enjoy.Something that is interesting to you. 是一件你正在做
Something you are doing 因为你确实非常想做的事
because you are really want to be doing it. 换句话说 自我和谐的目标会对你生活的
In other words,a self-concordant goal that will have an effect, 其他方面产生积极影响
a positive effect on other areas in your life- 比如说一门你不那么喜欢的课
such as a class that you don't necessarily enjoy that much, 你去上课是因为你觉得你必须要去
but you are doing more because you feel that you have to, 而不是你真的非常想去
as opposed to you really really want to. 因此找到自我和谐的目标
So potentially identifying self-concordant goals 其实可以帮助你提高成绩
can also help you improve your grades. 虽然它们似乎毫不相关
Again,even though they are not related at all. 因为总体来说 你更有动力了 你更兴奋了
Because overall,you are more motivated; you are more excited; 你更感兴趣了 你用更积极的感情
you are more interested; and you enjoy life 来享受整个人生 这就是涓滴效应
as a whole more in positive emotions have a trickle effect. 这个效应可以想象为黑暗房间里的蜡烛
In a way you can think about it like a candle in a dark room. 通常你不需要将点很多灯照亮整个屋子
Very often you don't need to light up the entire room with lights 有时只需一根蜡烛
A single candle sometimes 就足以将光明遍布房间每一个角落
is enough to spread the light to darkened corners of the room. 自我和谐的目标也是这样
The same with the self-concordant goals. 它们具有涓滴效应
They have a trickle effect.Choosing to do things- 选择做我们想做的事同样对健康也有好处
doing what we want to do has also health benefits. 这是心理学领域的重要研究之一
This is one of the most important studies done 同样是由我们学校的Ellen Langer做的研究
in the field of psychology by,once again,our own Ellen Langer. 她所做的就是去了一个养老院
What she did was going into old age homes and divide it- 将老人们随机分为两组
the old age home randomly into two groups. 第一组所有需要都能得到满足
The one group got all the support that they needed- 不管什么需要都能满足
whatever they wanted they got. 他们想吃什么 就能吃什么
They asked for certain food- they got it. 他们想在某些事情上寻求帮助 同样也能满足
They asked to be helped,carrying out certain tasks- they got it. 所有事情都无需他们动手
Everything was done for them. 很大程度上来说 这是大多数人梦想的养老院
In many ways,the old age homes that many people dream of. 而第二组就没有这么好的待遇了
And then the second group didn't have as good. 他们不能衣来伸手饭来张口
Not everything was catered for them. 时常都需要自己动手
They very often had to do their own things. 比如说 他们必须自己浇花
For example,notably,they had to water their own plants. 他们必须自己规划每天做的事
They very often had to set their own routine during the day. 服务没有第一组那么周到
The service wasn't as great as the first group. 他们需要什么的话 必须自己告诉职员
They had to tell the employees if they needed something. 经常需要自己动手丰衣足食
They very often had to get it themselves. 同样 他们需要自己浇花
And again,they planted- they watered their own plants. 而研究的内容是
And what they did was- Langer创造了这两种不同的情境
Langer created this two different scenarios 然后一年半后再回来
and then went back 18 months later. 一年半后 第二组
After 18 months,the second group, 自己浇花的那一组
the group that watered their plants, 自己照顾自己的那一组
the group that took care of their day, 没有人管顾的那一组
the group that was not catered for, 跟第一组相比起来
in the same way as the first group- 他们没那么沮丧 他们更快乐
they were less likely to be depressed; they were happier; 他们更有活力 更独立 也更健康
they were more energetic; more independent,physically healthier. 更关键的是
And the clincher: 一年半后 他们活着的比例比另一组高出一半
18 months later,they were 50 percent more likely to be alive. 唯一的区别就在于更健康 更开心
The only difference being that group that was healthier,happier, 更高存活率的这组 有选择的权利
more likely to be alive,had choice. 他们能做自己想做的事
They did their own thing. 他们会询问自己想做什么
They were asked what do you want to do, 而不是衣来伸手饭来张口
as opposed to being catered for,being supported. 从某种角度来说 这太轻松了 不需要做什么选择
And in some way,this was too easy.There was no choice involved. 当我们能够选择时 当我们做自己想做的事时
And when we choose,when we do what we want to, 是有益于我们的幸福 我们的成功
it has implications to our well being,to our success, 以及我们的健康的
and to our physical health, 尤其是能使我们更加长寿
to the point of leading to longer life. 小小的差异导致了巨大的区别
Significant difference with such little intervention. 但今天的很多养老院依然是基于
And yet,so many of the old age homes today are built "迎合老人所有的需要"
around the notion of "let's catered to all their needs"- "满足他们所有需求"
"let's do everything that they desire", "为他们提供方便"这样的理念上的 这其实不好
"let's make it easy for them".That's not necessarily good. 太过于轻松了
There's too easy- 不管是我在书里提到的概念
whether it's the notion that I talked about in the book, "特权中的非特权"
"the underprivilege of the privilege", 一切过于轻松 我们失败得不够
or things are too easy,or we don't fail enough; 抑或是老人院里 一切过于轻松
whether it is in the old age home,or it becomes too easy, 不需要做选择 无需挣扎 无需做决定
as opposed to making choices and struggling and making decisions. 而且同样适用于我们之后会讲到的
And it applies as we will see later also, 压力的概念 以及它对于
to the notion of stress- and how important that can be 培养耐性以及最终获得幸福的重要性
in cultivating resilience and ultimately,happiness. 过于轻松不一定是件好事
Too easy is not necessarily good.Finally, 最后我们看到压迫政权和民主之间也是这样
we see this also in oppressive regimes versus democracies. 人们之所以在民主制度下更幸福的重要原因之一
One of the main reasons why people are happier under democracies- 记住 这是少数可以预测幸福的
and remember,that is one of few external circumstances 外部条件之一
that can predict happiness- 原因之一就在于 民主制度下人们有选择的权利
one of the reasons is because under democracies,people have choice. 而在独裁政治下
As opposed to under dictatorships, 通常人们会被告知"好 你去做会计
very often they are told "OK,you need to go into accounting. 你去做工程
You need to go into engineering. 你去做运动员" 诸如此类
And you need to go into athletics." And so on. 如果你有选择 那就是快乐的预示
And when you have a choice,that is a good predictor of happiness 让我们稍微换一下话题
Let's shift gear a little bit. 我要讲一些与自我和谐非常相关的东西
I'm going to talk about something very much related 但是是从不同的角度来讲的
to self-concordance,but from a different angle. 我要讲讲行为价值观 缩写为VIA
I'm going to talk about values in action,or in short,the VIA. 行为价值观 VIA 可以说是积极心理学中
Values in action,the VIA,is arguably the most ambitious, 最有前景 也是
and certainly one of the most important projects 最重要的课题之一
within positive psychology. 它最先是由图中的Chris Peterson
It was initiated by Chris Peterson in the picture, 密歇根大学教授 以及Martin Seligman共同提出的
professor of University of Michigan and Martin Seligman. 他们想说明的是积极心理学
And what they wanted to identify was positive psychology 可以代替DSM DSM就是
is alternative to the DSM- the DSM, 《精神疾病诊断与统计手册》
the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder,which 其中包括已知所有心理疾病的分类
is essentially the classification of all known mental disorders. 这是本非常厚的书 非常重要的文件 上面讲了
It's a very thick book,a very important document where it says- 比如说 它列出了特定的标准
for example,it lists certain criteria 然后说如果一个人在某一段时间内符合
and it says if a person has seven of the ten of these criteria 这十条标准中的七条 那他就有重性抑郁症
for x period of time,that person has major depression. 如果某人在另一段时间内符合四条标准中的三条
If the person has three of four criteria for y period of time, 他就有精神分裂症
that person has schizophrenia. 或抑郁症 或季节性心理疾病
Or dysthymia.Or seasonal affective disorder. 或者我们已知的定义并分类好的
Or all of the psychopathologies that are known to us, 精神疾病
that have been defined and classified. 非常重要的文件
A very important document. 而Seligman和Peterson
Come along Seligman and Peterson right at the beginning 在积极心理学问世之初就说
when positive psychology came onto the scene and say, "让我们来造一个替代品 让我们替代掉
"let's create an alternative.Let's create an alternative DSM 不再鉴别弱点
to the DSM that will identify instead of weaknesses, 疾病 或者缺陷
instead of pathologies,instead of deficiencies, 相反来鉴别人的力量和长处"
it will identify individual strengths and virtues." 然后他们定义了24种人格力量
And they identified 24 character strengths, 全部囊括在此书中 并进行了解释和描述
all enlisted,explained,described in this book. 他们不仅定义了这些人格力量
Not only did they identified the character strengths, 还创造了机制 方法
they also created mechanisms,ways, 来测量这些人格力量
means of measuring these character strengths. 比方说一个网上测试 下周你们会做一个这样的测试
For example,an online test- one you would be taking next week- 可以作为帮你鉴别你的
that can help you,as a first step, 行为价值观的第一步
identify your values in actions: 你的人格力量是什么 你的美德是什么
what are your character strengths; what are your virtues; 你擅长什么 你热爱什么
what are you good at; what are you passionate about. 关于人格力量 他们在鉴别它们时
The thing about character strengths-When they identified them, 确保了他们所鉴别的是普遍的人格特点
they made sure that they identified universal characteristics. 换句话说 并不是特别挑选的例如
In other words,it wasn't chosen by you know, 美国的白人学术男性
male,white academics living in America. 这是在全球范围进行的研究
This was research done all over the world, 跨文化以鉴别那些共有的特征
cross-culturally to identify characters that are identical, 不管在美国 欧洲 亚洲的中国 日本
whether it was in United States or Europe,Asia- China,Japan 甚至包括肯尼亚的马萨伊部落
as well as the Massai tribe in Kenya 以及北格陵兰岛的因纽特人
and the Inuits in Northern Greenland. 这是个全球范围的研究课题
So this was an international research project, 因为他们想
because what they thought- 如果我们能找到所有文化都共有的东西
if we can find things that are common to all cultures, 就能找到人类本性的东西
we will identify what is the part of human nature, 而不是后天养成的
as opposed to human nurture. 他们承认这是可以随时间变化的
And they admit you know that this may change over time; 在测量时我们可能会变得更老练
we may become more sophisticated in measuring them. 但作为开始 人格力量和美德
But as a start,the character strengths and virtues, 行为价值观 手册和测试 是一个好的开始
the values in action,manual and test,is an excellent start, 你会从中受益良多
the one what you'll benefit from a great deal, 很快你们就会明白
as you will see shortly. 这些特点的关键方面在于
The key aspect also of these characteristics 它们具有道德价值
is that they have moral value. 例如跑得快的能力
For example,the ability to run fast- 很显然有些人有这种能力
it's certainly some people have this strength, 身体各部位动得更快
you know having more fast twitch than slow twitch, 肌肉更强劲
having stronger muscles,for instance. 这是种力量 但不是人格力量
It certainly is a strength,but it's not a character strength. 因为它其中不含有道德成分
Because it doesn't in and of itself have a moral component. 你可以将力量用于道德相关的事情
You could use your strength and your speed toward moral ends, 但就其本身来说
but in and of itself, 它并不算是一种道德特点
it has not been valued as a moral characteristic. 同理 一样东西要成为力量
Similarly,in order for something to be a strength, 就必须是用于道德方面的
it has to be used toward moral end. 比方说
For instance- as you'll see, 幽默是一种人格力量
humor is one of the character strengths.However, 但如果幽默被用来伤害他人
if humor is used to hurt other people as it sometimes is, 它就不能算作一种力量
it cannot be considered a strength. 所以它必须是用于道德高尚的方面
So it's used toward moral noble ends. 行为价值观很大程度上是
What values in action are in many ways- 关于自我和谐的过程的 意思是
they are about self-concordant journey.Meaning: 当我们制定了目标和结果 有一个目的地
when we set a goal and outcome,we are about a destination- 对 这当然是对整个过程有益的
yes,it certainly benefits the journey. 它通过解放我们来帮助我们
Yes,it certainly helps us enjoy by liberating us- 享受现在 享受当下
helps us enjoy the here and now. 但最终我们关注的是结果
But ultimately,what our focus is on- the end result. 有了行为价值观
With values in action, 我们就能直接关注这个过程
our focus is on specifically,directly the journey. 我如何能到达终点 我的目的地
How can I enjoy getting to the end,my destination? 是通过大量的学习吗
Is it by engaging in a lot of learning? 是通过我可能拥有的人格力量之一
Is it by- which may be a character strength of mine, 对学习的热爱吗 还是通过领导他人呢
love of learning? Is it by engaging leading other people- 领导也是人格力量之一
the leadership is one of those character strengths? 是通过精神上的祈祷吗
Is it by being spiritual and praying along the path- 如果信仰和敬畏是我的人格力量的话
if spirituality or awe is my character strengths. 它们能帮助我们享受
So it's helping us enjoy the journey 前往我们认为有价值的目的地的过程
on the way to a destination we deem valuable. 换句话说
In other words, 如果我们有自我和谐的目标和自我和谐的旅程
if we have a self-concordant end and a self-concordant journey, 这就是快乐的所在
this is what happiness is. 既包括当下的好处(过程)
Both present benefit (journey) 也包括将来的好处(结果)
as well as future benefit (outcome). 这就是为什么自我和谐的目标很重要
And that's why it goes hand in hand with a self-concordant goal. 并不是说自我和谐的目标
It's not that the self-concordant goals 对我们享受奋斗的过程没有帮助
don't help us enjoy the journey, 而VIA也不能帮我们得到更好的结果
and it's on the VIA does not help us reach a better outcome. 它其实可以
It does. 然而 当它们同时呈现时 我们更能够感受到
However, when they go together, we are more likely to experience 完整的快乐 以及成就感
a complete experience of happiness,of fulfillment. 很多研究显示如何找到我们的行为价值观
And a lot of research has shown how identify our values in action 更重要的是如何应用它们
and more importantly applying them,using them, 能够使我们得到更高层次的快乐和成功
exercising them leads to higher levels of happiness and success. 这不仅仅是相关关系
And this is not just correlational; 而是因果关系
there is a causal relationship. 你们下周的练习就是使用它
And your exercise for next week will be to implement it, 最终可能带你们走向更大的成功
which will ultimately hopefully lead you to more success 以及终极的目标
as well as more of the ultimate currency. 除了你们即将做的问卷之外
In addition to the questionnaire that you will be taking, 这里也有一些其他的标准来鉴别
here are some other criteria to identify 你的个人人格力量是什么
what are your personal character strengths. 第一个问题就是"这是真的我吗"
The first one is "is this the real me?" 我是否觉得这真的是我自己 当我在团体里工作时
Do I feel authentic,most myself,when I am working in a group? 当我领导别人时 当我学新东西时
When I am leading people? When I am learning something new? 当我祈祷时 当我在看一部喜剧
When I am praying? When I'm watching a comedy 或者讲笑话 听笑话时
or telling jokes or listening to jokes? 我什么时候觉得最是我自己
When do I feel most myself? 十九世纪时 William James说
William James,back in the 19th century: "我时常觉得定义一个人性格的最好办法
"I have often thought the best way to define a man's character 就是寻找特定的心理
would be to seek out the particular mental 或道德态度 它们出现时
or moral attitude in which,when it came upon him, 他觉得自己最为积极和活跃
he felt himself most deeply and intensely active and alive. 在这种时刻 他内心有一个声音说
At such moments there is a voice inside which speaks and says: '这就是真的我!'"
'This is the real me!'" 你的真我在什么时候出现呢 是你表现英勇的时候吗
When is the real you coming out? Is it when you act bravely? 是你全身心投入 认真地做某事的时候吗
Is it when you apply yourself and work hard at something? 是你作为一个审慎的人 你的计划
Is it when you plan- and you are prudent, 很好地计划了未来的时候吗 这也是一种力量
careful about the future? It's a strength,too. 当你按照你的人格力量行为时
When you are acting according to your character strengths, 你会觉得充满活力和动力
you feel energized and you feel motivated. 这是发自内心的 很本能的
It comes from within.It feels natural. 这是来自你的人性本能的
Again,this is about understanding your personal nature, 本质的内在观念
the constrained view of human nature, 而不是说"所有力量都是我的
as opposed to saying "well,all the strengths are me. 我可以培养所有这些力量" 对 没错
I can cultivate all the strengths." Yes,it's true. 我们都拥有所有力量中的一些
And we all have some of all of the strengths. 然而 我们仍然有特定的偏向 它植根于
However,however,we also have certain inclinations embedded 我们的基因
whether it's in our genes, 或者早期的经历
whether it's in our earlier experiences.And 并不是说我们就不能或不应该培养其他力量
it's not we cannot or should not cultivate the other strength, 而是我们应该
but what we need to do 更专注于这些对我们来说更本性的力量
is focus mostly on those strengths that are most natural to us. 因为这是我们能获取最多的地方
Because that's when we get the most bank for the buck, 也就是说最终的结果
so to speak,in the ultimate currency that is, 最后的成功 传统意义上的成功
as well as in success,the conventional standard of success. 当我们利用这些力量 个人的力量时
And when we engage in those strengths,our personal strengths, 我们最能够成长 最能发展
that's when we grow the most,that's when we develop the most, 学到的也最多
that's when we learn the most. 再问问自己 很快你们就会
And again,ask yourself as in a minute 看到列出各种力量的单子 问问自己
you'll be looking at the list of strengths- ask yourself: 我什么时候最能感觉到自我
when does it feel the real me? 是我投入地工作时吗
Again,it's when I apply myself and work hard? 是我惩恶扬善表现英勇时吗
Is it when I go again the grain and act bravely? 这是我觉得最真实 最有活着的感觉的时候吗
Is it when I feel the most real,the most alive? 是我学习新知识时吗 是我去博物馆时吗
Is it when I learn something new? Is it when I go to a museum? 是我祈祷时吗 是我被幽默的人环绕时吗
Is it when I pray? Is it when I'm around people who are funny? 什么时候我最真实? 这是力量的列表
When is it the most me? Here is the list. 花一分钟看看
Take just a minute to look at them. 它们分为六个类别
They are divided into six categories. 共有24种人格力量
There are 24 character strengths. 我只是让你们提前看看
And I just want you to be exposed to it right now. 因为你们的作业中
Because,again,for your homework, 会拿到一份带描述的所有力量的列表
you'll get a print-out of all the strengths with description. 花点时间将它们看一遍
Just take a few seconds to look through them. 问自己 说到这些力量时 你是谁
And ask yourself: who are you? When it comes to these strengths. 好 接下来我们要做的
OK.Here's what we are going to do. 我们现在要做的是
What we are going to do now 我要向你们介绍两个练习
is I'm going to introduce you to two exercises. 两个建立于VIA上的练习
Two exercises that build on the VIA, 建立于这个问卷之上
that build on this questionnaire, 建立于你们对自己的个人人格力量的认知之上
that build on your identifying your personal character strengths. 你们要做的第一个练习是
The first exercise you are actually going to be doing- 是下周你们的作业中要做的
that's next week,for your response paper. 第二个练习我非常推荐大家做
The second exercise is one that I highly recommend doing- 但由于时间关系不能一起做了
for lack of time,we can't also do that. 第一个练习 基于
The first one- and this is based on research, Peterson和他的同事所做的研究的结果
done by Peterson and his colleagues- 对于幸福和成功
has been showing remarkable effects,remarkable consequences 具有显著效果和影响
in terms of well being as well as in terms of success. 它是关于建立能力的
And what it is about is building capacity. 关于找到人格力量
It's about identifying the character strengths 然后不断追求它们
and then pursuing them. 再简要概括一下什么叫建立能力
Just a quick recap about what it means to build capacity. 当你在考虑以及
You see,when you are thinking about character strength 应用人格力量时 我们所知道的是
and applying character strength,what we know is that 它可以使你有一个更快乐的 自我和谐的旅程
it helps you become happier- remember a self-concordant journey. 比如你发现做某事
So you found doing something 并持续不断地学习新鲜事物
and constantly engaged in learning new things, 是我的人格力量 或者表达感恩
if it is my personal strength or expressing gratitude constantly, 是我的人格力量
if that is my character strength. 是我喜欢做的事 那我就会更快乐
Something that I'm inclined to do.I'll be happier. 换句话说
In other words, 回到我们第二或第三节课上讲的模型
going back to our model from our second or third class. 它可以帮助我们从零走向正
It will help us go from zero to the positive. 然而 这项研究发现的是
However,what was found in the research is that 它不仅能使我们从零走向正
it doesn't only help us go from the zero to the positive, 而且能使我们更好的处理负
it also helps us better deal with the negative. 这是直接的 这是间接的
This- it does directly.This- it does indirectly. 怎么做到的呢 通过建立能力
How? By building capacity. 如果你仔细想想 这正是积极心理学所要做的
If you think about it,this is what positive psychology is about, 正如我们已经讲过很多次了
as we've discussed numerous times. 是关于建立能力的
It's about building capacities. 是增强我们的免疫系统
It's about strengthening our immune system, 使我们适应性更强
making us more resilient. 或者用另一个类比 造一个强劲的马达
Or the other analogy that we use: building a stronger motor 从而使我们更好的处理困难
so that we can better deal with hardships, 处理艰难的逆境
with uphill battles,when these arise. 因此培养VIA直接影响我们的奋斗过程
So cultivating our VIA directly affects our journey- 我们更乐在其中
we enjoy it more. 从零到正 然后它还有别的作用
From the zero to the positive.And then it does something else. 它还帮助我们建立能力
It also helps us build capacity 这样我们就能更好地面对消极 面对困难
so we are better able to deal the negative,with difficulties, 面对可能出现的逆境
with the hardships when these inevitably arise. 过程是这样的
So here is the process: 第一步是找到你的人格力量
the first step is to identify your character strengths. 显而易见的
Seems pretty obvious. 而找到力量的方法 又分为两步
The way to do it- two steps,two sub-steps. 首先 做问卷 做测试
First,to take the questionnaire,to take the test. 这就是那个网站 我会将它发给你们
This is the website.It will all be emailed to you plus. 是用Powerpoint做的 做这个问卷 共240道题
It's on the powerpoint.To take this test.It's 240 questions. 可能花半个小时的时间
It should take you about 30 minutes. 没有正确或错误的答案
And there are no right or wrong answers. 不是像"你最好把敬畏列在前五
It's not like "it's better to have awe in your top five 最好不要把审慎列为第一"之类的
and not so great to have prudence as your top one", 顺便说一句 我把审慎列为第一
which by the way is my top value. 没有好或者不好 只是识别出你是谁
There's no good,bad.It's identifying who you are. 它们所有 我们都有24个
And all of them,again,we all have all 24. 感激是排在我的第19位的
You know,I think gratitude is my 19th. 这是不是意味着我不喜欢感恩
Now does that mean that I don't enjoy being grateful, 我每天所进行的感恩对我来说
that the gratitude exercise that I do every day 都是没有好处的呢 当然不是
is not beneficial to me? Of course it is! 但排得更靠前的是我对学习的热爱
But much higher for me is the love of learning. 所以做做这个网上测试
So take the online test. 找到你的前十 他们推荐前五位
Identify from there your ten top ones- they recommend top five. 我推荐前八位到十二位
I recommend anywhere between 8 and 12. 找到这8种或12种力量 读读它们的描述
And take these 8 to 12 strengths.Read their descriptions- 它们是什么意思 有什么含义 说明了你的什么特质
what they mean,what they are about,what they say about you. 然后问问你自己 这里面哪五个
And then ask yourself: which ones,which five- 或四个 或者也可以是六个 大约是五个
or it could be four,or it could be six,but more or less five- 哪五个符合我们之前讲过的标准
which five fulfill the criteria that we discussed earlier? 也就是 什么是真正的我 或者哪些
Namely,which are the real me? Or which ones, 最能让我感觉到充满活力 充满动力
when I'm engaging them I feel more energized and motivated? 或者哪些最能使我成长发展
Or which ones do I grow and develop most from? 从这8到12种力量中
And from these 8 to 12 strengths, 找出4到6种符合这些标准的力量
identify 4 to 6 that most fulfill these strengths criteria. 然后从中任意选择一个
And then choose any one of the character strengths 并应用它
from your final list and apply it, 也就是接下来一周七天的每一天
meaning every day for the following 7 days- and again, 这会是你们下周的任务
this will be your task for the next week- 来应用这些人格力量
apply these character strengths. 这七天之后的时间
Every day for the 7 days after that- 就看你自己了 希望你们能将其转化为一种例行公事
that will be up to you and hopefully you will cultivate a ritual, 一种习惯 然后再应用下一项人格力量
a habit out of it,apply the next character strength 或者还是同一种 但用不同的方式
or the same character strength in a different way. 给你们举一个个人例子
So let me give you a personal example. 我第三次教积极心理学时
The third time when I taught positive psychology, 学期到了一半时
about half way through the semester, 我开始觉得有点疲倦 有点精疲力竭
I started to feel a little bit enervated,a little bit tired. 我之前已经教了两次
You know,I've done it twice before. 我知道自己会说什么 我听过自己以前说过
I knew what I was going to say.I've heard myself say it before. 我觉得我失去了精力
And I thought I lost a little bit of energy, 失去了教学的动力
a little bit ongf in teaching. 然后我就回到VIA
And then I went back to the VIA. 我说"这倒确实说得通"
And I said "well that made a lot of sense." 因为我在审慎之后排第二位的是对学习的热爱
Because my second strength after prudence is love of learning. 而当我反复教同一门课时
And when I am teaching the same course, 我就没怎么学新东西
again,I wasn't learning that much new. 确实我在工作时能学新东西
So yes,I had new learnings in office hours. 我经常在学习 那些来过我办公室的人就知道
I always learn a lot- those who've been to my office hours know 我们说话时我会写下一些想法
that I jot down ideas as we are speaking. 但总体来说 在这门课上我教的是一样的东西
But as a whole,in a class,I was doing the same thing. 然后我就说"好吧 那我就要实践一下这个练习"
And then I said,"OK.So I am going to engage in this exercise." 对我来说
And for me, 这个练习就是继续追求对学习的热爱
that exercise was let's take love of learning and continue it, 即便我是在教同样的课
even when I am teaching the same course. 即使我教同一门课 我还是很忙
I'm incredibly busy even if I am teaching the same course.But 但我仍然每天抽一小时出来做点新鲜的事
I still put in an hour aside every day to learning something new, 阅读一些我没读过的东西
to reading something that I haven't read before. 而两天之后就对我起了效果
And what that did for me immediately within two days- 我的能量回来了
it brought back my energy. 它对其他领域产生了涓滴效应 例如我的教学
It had a trickle effect on other areas,such as my teaching. 因为我阅读了新鲜事物
Because I was reading something new 它帮助我更好地教学
and then it also helped me teach better- 不仅仅是带回了活力
not only in terms of energy, 而且给我的课堂带来了新的想法
but also new ideas,such as I introduce once in a while. 有时我会告诉你们我刚读了这本书
Sometimes I tell you I just read this book 我读到了这些内容
and here is what I read. 即使我很忙我也一直这样做
And I do it constantly even though I am very busy. 因为我知道这对于幸福
Because I know that that's very important for well being, 对于终极目标 对于成功都非常重要
for the ultimate currency as well as for success,for performance 所以不管是什么
So apply whatever it is,whatever 不管你排名第一的力量是什么 都应用它直至它成为习惯
your top strengths are consciously until it becomes a habit. 然后 这也将是你们练习的一部分
And then- this will also be part of your exercise- 每天晚上描述你当天如何应用了你的力量
each night describe how you use your strength on that day 然后用它规划第二天
and then commit to the next day: 你明天要做什么 为什么
what are you going to do tomorrow? Why? 因为这能加强你的神经通路
Because that reinforces the neural pathways. 请记住这一点
Remember when we describe something good. 某种程度上说 VIA之于DSM就像PPEO之于PTSD
In many ways,the VIA to the DSM is like PPEO to PTSD. 还记得吗 这可以作为一道GRE题
Remember that? That could be a GRE question. 这个类比是PPEO-积极
The analogy is PPEO- positive, PTSD-消极 VIA和DSM相比较也是同理
PTSD- negative is the same as the VIA compared to the DSM. 等价于
The equivalence- 积极心理学以及传统精神病理学
positive psychology and conventional psychopathology. 这是之后的第二个练习
So here is the second exercise after you do this. 你可以将其应用于解决问题
You could also apply for problem solving. 因为在VIA间接地建立能力
Because in a sense,while the VIA indirectly builds capacity 帮助我们面对问题 困难和逆境的同时
and helps us deal with problems,with difficulties,with uphills, 我们也可以用它来影响这些困难
we can also use it to affect our difficulties, 来直接的帮助我们解决问题
to help us with our problems directly. 比方说  第一步 和前面一样
So for example.The first step- same as the previous one. 你首先通过做测验 看看这些力量是否符合标准
You first identify your character strengths by taking the test, 来找到你的人格力量
by asking what are the criteria the these strengths fulfill. 然后找到你的问题 不论是在个人生活
And then,identify any problem,whether it's in personal life, 或者是在运动方面
whether it's in,on the sports field, 或者是情感方面 或者工作方面
whether it's on,in a relationship,whether it's at work. 找出你想要解决的问题
Identify certain problem that you want to deal with. 然后问问自己如何能够应用其中一种
And then ask how you can apply one of the character, 或几种力量来解决这个问题
or some of the character strengths toward that problem. 举个例子
So for example.Let's take an example. 比如说我遇到的一个
Let's say one of the problem that I face 我极力避免的问题
is that I am mostly avoiding. 我害怕冒险 我不会不顾一切
I am afraid of taking risks.I don't put myself on the line. 因为我很焦虑 并且害怕
Because I am anxious and afraid. 而对学习的热爱是我的一种力量
And love of learning is one of our strengths. 我所能做的就是用对学习的热爱来处理我的
What I can do is use the love of learning to deal with my phobia, 恐惧 焦虑 和害怕
my anxiety,my fear of putting myself on the line. 怎么做呢 通过学习任何有关
How? By learning all I can learn about 如何更好地解决焦虑和恐惧的知识
how to better deal with phobia and anxiety, 我也正是这样做的
which by the way is exactly what I did. 阅读任何我能找到的书
Read every book I could find. 和我认为了解这方面的人聊天
Talked to any person who I thought knew about it. 利用这个力量
Used the strength 将其应用于我的弱点
and then applied it to what had been a weakness of mine. 人际关系也一样
Or relationships. 比如说我们的人际关系正面临一定的困难
Let's say we are going through a difficulty in relationship. 而我的力量之一 比方说是真诚可靠
And one of my top strengths is for example,authenticity. 那我如何将我的可靠
And then how can I use my authenticity 用于我和我伙伴之间的关系
in my interactions with my partner- 最终达到更高层次的亲密
and that will lead to higher levels of intimacy 长远来看 改善我们间的关系
and improve the relationship in the long run, 我也正是这样做的
which is exactly what I did. 将我的力量
One of my top strengths- 应用于产生更加亲密的关系
and applied it to cultivating more intimacy. 想想你们自己的例子
Think of your own example. 这不是作业
Again,this will not be a response paper, 但我十分推荐你们试试
but I highly recommend and urge you to apply it. 让我们来汇总一下这些概念
Let's put some of these ideas together. 让我们看看你们现在或者将来
Let's look at the decisions that some of you are making right now 会做的决定
or will be making in the future, 无论是明年 或是三年之后
whether it's next year or three years from now, 或者20年 40年以后
or 20 or 40 years from now. 你如何去做决定
How do you make decisions and how do you- 什么是制定一个自我和谐的奋斗过程
what may be a helpful framework 以及目标的有效框架呢
for identifying a self-concordant journey as well as outcome? 其中一种方法
And one of the ways to do it 就是看看Amy Wrzesniewski的研究
is by looking at the work of Amy Wrzesniewski 我在之前的课上讲过
that I do talk about in the work chapter, 但还是值得反复再提
but still worth going over again. 关于工作方向的研究
About work orientation. 这不仅适用于工作
And this is going to apply not just to work. 也适用于我们生活的其他方面
It can apply to other areas in our lives. Wrzesniewski他们发现的是
Generally what Wrzesniewski and others found is that 人们对于工作的概念
people's perception of work 可以分为三类
can be classified into three categories. 有些人认为他们的工作是工作 有的人认为是职业
Some people perceive their work as a job; others as a career; 还有一些人 但很不幸不是多数
and yet,others,not the majority unfortunately, 希望在将来成为多数
hopefully in the future the majority- 有些人认为它是一种使命
some people perceive it as a calling. 这并不意味着
Primarily it doesn't mean that 将工作视为使命的人
the person who perceives his or her work 就不会时不时觉得这只是工作
as a calling does not sometimes experience it as a job. 但总体而言 他们认为他们的工作
However,overall,they perceive their work 是一种使命 而非职业或仅仅是工作
as a calling versus a career versus a job. 你可以用以下标准来区分出他们
And you can distinguish them by looking at the following criteria 他们的动力是什么 是什么让他们持续努力
what motivates them- what keeps them going, 什么推动或拉着他们 他们如何理解工作
what pushes and pulls them; what do they perceive work as- 他们如何诠释工作的地方
what is their interpretation of the workplace; 他们的期待是什么 最后
what do they expect- what are they hoping for; and finally, 他们对这份工作的未来所寄望的是什么
what are they looking forward to in the future in that work. 那些将工作仅仅视为工作的人 他们的动力是
So people who perceive their work as a job: motivation- paycheck 每个月末 或者每个周末的工资
at the end of the month or the end of the week; 工作是我不得不做的事 它是琐事
work as something I have to do- it's a chore, 我别无选择 他们期待什么呢 没有什么
I have no choice about it; what do they expect- nothing much; 他们期待星期五 期待放假休息
they look forward to TGIF or the holiday,the break, 期待学期结束 期待两年研究生结束
the end of the semester,the end of the two year period, 或者之类的
or whatever it may be. 而将工作视为职业的
The career perception,orientation: 薪酬和晋升是他们的动力
money and advancement are what motivates these individuals, 不断地升职
getting to the next stage; 工作就像赛跑 跑到最高处
work as- it's a race,a race to the top- 这是好胜者常有的情况
this is what the rat racers mostly reside; 他们的期望是 更多的特权 更强的力量 更多的钱
the expectation- more prestige,more power,more money, 更多的特权 更强的力量 晋升 升职
more prestige,more power,again,advancement,attainment, 不断地成就
achievement of the next goal; 他们寄望的是不断的升职
and they are looking forward to the next promotion. 这也同样于其他领域 比如说
And this applies to different areas- it could be 从医学预科到医学院 到最好的医院的实习
from PreMed to Med school to internship at the best place, 到主治医生 到部门负责人
to the chief,head of the department, 再到医院院长
to the chief of the hospital. 可以是从分析师 到合作人 到合伙人
It could be the race from being analyst to an associate to a partner 也可以是从助手到
It could be the race from being 副教授 再到正教授
an assistant to an associate to a full professor. 这种竞争适用于各个领域
It can apply to any area,the red race. 而那些幸运地将工作视为使命的少数人
The lucky few who perceive their work as calling: 他们的动力来自于工作本身
the motivation is the thing in itself- 是一种自我和谐的目标
it's about self-concordant goal, 是自我和谐的奋斗过程
it's also about self-concordant journey; 他们怎么理解工作 他们认为这是种任务 是种使命
how do they perceive work- it's a mission,it's a vocation, 他们本就该做这个
it's what they are meant to be doing,it's what 做这件事比起所有其他事都更乐意
they want to be doing more than anything else in the world. 他们不认为这是琐事 能够参与其中
They see it not as a chore,but it's a privilege to be engaged in 就是一种特权
what it is that they are doing. 他们的期望 也是他们的使命 是使世界更美好
The expectations- their mission: a better world. 而最后 他们寄望的是更多的工作
And finally,what do they look forward to- more work. 从而他们能实现自身
More work where they can actualize themselves, 成就自身
where they can fulfill themselves, 引用军事名言 可以成为任何他们想成为的人
where they can be- to use the military cliche- all they can be. 讲到这个
Now when you look at this, 要在每时每刻都感觉到召唤或使命
it's mostly impossible to experience a sense of calling 以及自我和谐的旅程是不太可能的
and mission and a self-concordant journey every hour of the day. 就像不可能总是能够
Just like it's not possible to be happy 体验到这么多的快乐
and to experience constantly experience that constant high. 举个例子 教学就是我的使命
You know,for example,teaching is my calling. 我感受到了召唤
I certainly experience a sense of calling- 来自于这件事本身 我做这件事
it's the thing in itself; it's what I want to do professionally 比所有其他事更乐意
more than anything else in the world. 同时
At the same time, 教学中也有很多我不喜欢的东西
there are elements of teaching that I don't enjoy it as much. 我也确实偶尔会感觉到
And I do feel that I fell a little bit toward "这是我的工作 我必须要做"的感觉
"well,this is my job- I had to do it" such as 比如每次上课前备五遍课
going over my lecture notes five times before each lecture. 第一遍非常有趣
The first time,pretty interesting; 第二遍第三遍就有点重复了
you know second and third it gets a little bit repetitive. 但我知道如果我要把课讲好
But I know if I want to produce a good and effective lecture- 因为教学是我的使命
because that is my calling,teaching, 我必须要反复备课
I have to go over it many times. 我也能感受到
And I can tell the difference 备一两遍课和备五遍的区别
when I go over it once or twice versus five times. 所以这对我来说很重要
So that's important to me. 但这时我的工作
But that part of my work- 就是种琐事 我不得不做的事
it is a chore,something that I have to do. 然而 记住涓滴效应
However,remember the trickle effect. 由于整体来说 这是种使命
Because overall,there's a sense of calling. 整体来说 这是自我和谐的目标及过程
Overall,it's a self-concordant goal as well as journey. 所以即使备五遍课也没问题 也没那么糟
Even those parts are OK,not that bad. 或者比方说你很喜欢一门课
Or let's say you really enjoy a certain course. 假设是1504
Let's take a hypothetical example,1504. 再做个假设
And another hypothetical example, 你一周后就要期中考了
you happen to have a midterm in a week. 你可能不会享受其中每一步
You know,you may not enjoy every step of the way. 比如把书看两遍
You know going over the material 或者看三遍
for the second time or third time. 但如果整体来说这件事是自我和谐的
However,if overall that experience is self-concordant, 对你来说很重要 你很喜欢
important to you,and you enjoy it, 那么那样也就没那么糟糕 是可以接受的
even that part will not be that bad.It will be OK, 尤其是当你发现在这个过程中
especially if you start seeing that during that process, 你建立了新的联系
you'll begin to make new connections, 理解了你觉得很重要的知识
understand things,important things about yourself. 关于使命同样要记住的一点是
Important thing also to keep in mind about calling is that 它确实从某种程度上取决于
well it does depend to some extent 你工作的种类
on the kind of work that you do. 但更取决于你对工作的理解
It depends much more on your perception of the work. 我在书里讲到的研究
So the research that I talk about in the book 是关于医院里的清洁工的
is about cleaners in a hospital 他们将他们的工作视为使命
who were able to see their work as a calling. 为什么 因为他们不是将工作诠释成
Why? Because they interpret their work not as "我必须清扫垃圾 打扫厕所"
"I have to pick up the garbage and clean the toilet"- 虽然这是他们实际的工作 而是
which they actually had to do,but more as "我在照顾这些病人 没有我的努力
"I'm taking care of these patients; because without my work, 没有我这些出色的工作 就会产生更大的污染
without me doing the excellent work,there'll be more pollution 医院里会有更多人受害"
and more people hurt in the hospital. 而这些人
And these people who perceive- 这些将工作理解为使命的
these cleaners who perceive their work 清洁工会更愿意
had the calling orientation were much more likely to engage 和医院里的病人聊天
in a conversation with the patients in the hospital, 更愿意伸出援手
were much more likely to help. 有趣的是 同一家医院里的很多医生
And interestingly,many doctors from this same hospital 将他们的工作仅仅视为工作
perceive their work as a job. 你会更容易 同样没有好坏之分
Now you are more likely,again- not good,not bad it is- 你会更容易在工作中找到使命感
you are more likely to find a sense of calling in your work 如果你在单位里是领导
if you are a leader versus the janitor 而不是门卫 或者清洁工 会更容易感受到
or the cleaning person in an organization.It's more likely. 但这并不代表
However,that does not mean that the person 打扫医院的人就不能找到使命感
who cleans the hospital cannot find the calling 有很多这样的例子
and there are many examples. Wrzensniewski在研究中给出的例子
And the examples that Wrzesniewski talks about in the research 就是比较这些清洁工和其他清洁工
are things such as comparing between cleaners and other cleaners, 比较使命和琐事 以及比较将工作
calling versus chore,between certain hair dressers 视为琐事的和将其视为使命的发型师
to see their work as a chore versus ones who see it as a calling. 我相信你们都
I'm sure that you had your haircut with your, 被将理发视为使命的发型师剪过头发
with certain hair dressers who really do see it as a calling. 我的意思是心理学家比理发师要多
I mean there are more psychologists than hair dressers. 或者工程师 有的觉得他们的工作是
Or engineers.Some just see their work- "好吧 这是我不得不做的事 就这样吧"
"OK.I have to do this.That's all I think about." 有的则从更大的角度来考虑
Versus thinking about a bigger picture. 我不是无足轻重的 我是一个很重要的项目的一部分
I'm not just a cog in a mill.I'm part of an important project. 我们可以将所有对工作的理解
We can perceive almost any work 都归于这三类
as falling into one of these three categories. 想想投资银行
Think about investment bank- 我知道你们中很多人都想去投资银行
I know many of you are going into investment banking. 一种理解投资银行的方式是
One of the ways to perceive investment banking is "我要去那儿 我要赚大把大把的钱
"you know I'm going there.I'm going to make a big load of money. 过上舒适的生活"
And I'm going to have a great life style." 这是种很重要的动力
And that is an important motivation.Again, 人们不应该完全抵制物质上的舒适
people aren't and shouldn't be impervious to material comfort. 没有关系 然而仅仅这样只看到这个的人
That's OK.However,people who only look at that,who only look- "这能让我过上很好的生活
"OK.It's going to give me a great life style. 我要送我的孩子去最好的学校 这挺好的
I'm going to send my kids to the best schools- it's a good thing 我要住在漂亮的社区里
and I'm going to live in a beautiful neighborhood, 有一所漂亮的房子和一辆豪华的车 有很多的特权"
a beautiful house and a big car- have a lot of prestige." 这是人性 这些需求都是正常的
Again,human nature.These needs- it's fine. 但仅仅看到这些的人不会快乐
But people who just look at these things will not be happy, 或者不会长期地快乐
or will not live up to their potential happiness in the long run. 但如果不仅看到投资银行的这些方面
However,if I look at investment banking as that 还看到它创造岗位的机会 而它确实如此
and also an opportunity to create jobs which it does do- JP Morgan和他之后的
JP Morgan and all the investment bankers 所有投资银行家 创造了成千上万的岗位
who came up after him have created millions and millions of jobs 在投资银行业出现前都不存在的岗位
that would not have existed without investment banking. 而投资银行
But investment banking 也能润滑经济的齿轮
is also about lubricating the wheels of economy,that 能够提供机会 使得你能够继续
it will also provide an opportunity to then go and contribute, 不管从经济上
whether it's financially 还是知识上 奉献于非营利组织
or for my knowledge to Not for Profit organizations. 因为当今许多非营利组织最需要的
Because today what Not for Profit organizations need most 就是有效 健全 专业的财政政策
is effective sound professional fiscal policies. 而这正是你作为投资银行家
Which you'll learn as an investment banker 或者顾问 所能学到的
or a consultant or whatever it is. 有的人说"你这样看待投资银行
Now some people say,"you are rationalizing 是在给自己找借口"
if you look at the investment banking as all these things." 你并不是在找借口
You are not rationalizing. 你知道你所做的是什么吗 你只是看到了事实
You know what you are doing? You are simply looking at reality. 真实的事情 不是人为制造出来的
Things that are real,that are there- they are not invented. 但很多人看不到它们
But most people do not see them, 就像很多人看不到公车上的孩子
just like most people did not see the children on the bus. 而如果你看不见它 那么你就会认为
And when you don't see something as far as you're concerned, 它不存在
it doesn't exist. 对于很多投资银行家来说
And for most investment bankers, 他们最终筋疲力竭因为他们没有
they burn out because they don't also- not only, 没有看到这份工作的积极部分
but they don't also see the positive components of that work- 如果将其当成使命就一定能看到的部分
components that certainly can fall under a calling. 许多工作
Again,most works, 无论是在医院做清洁工作
whether it's working in a hospital and taking care of cleanliness 或者是作为一个医生
whether it's working as a medical doctor, 或者是成为投资银行家
whether it's working as an investment banker, 成为老师 志愿者 和尚 不管是什么
as a teacher,as a volunteer,as monk- whatever it is, 都能被理解为工作 也能被理解为职业
can be perceived as job,can be perceived as a career, 也可以被理解为使命
and can be perceived a calling. 通常选择权都在于你 你怎么诠释它
And very often the choice is up to you.How do you interpret it? Abraham Maslow说"没错
Abraham Maslow: "It is certainly true that 我们许多人回避了我们天生的职业
many of us evade our constitutionally suggested vocations (使命 命运 天命 职责)
(call,destiny,task in life,mission). 因此我们经常逃脱了一些本性
So often we run away from the responsibilities dictated 命运所指定(或者说暗示)的责任
(or rather suggested) by nature,by fate, 即使有时是意外的
even sometimes by accident, 就像Jonah试图逃离他的命运 最终失败了一样"
just as Jonah tried-in vain-to run away from his fate." 你的命运是什么 使命是什么 天命是什么
What is your fate? What is your calling? What is your destiny? 听从暗示你天命的那个声音
Just listen to the voice that suggests your vocation. 听从指引你使命的召唤
Just listen to the call that guides you to your calling. 它是什么 问题在于
What is it? You know the problem is 我们没有花时间来思考这些问题
we don't take time to think about these questions. 有时是因为我们害怕得到答案
Sometimes because we are afraid of the answer. 万一你想去教书呢?
Because what if it is teaching? 而所有来自外界的压力
You know,what about all the pressure 让你去做顾问怎么办
that I feel from the outside to go and be a consultant? 或者万一是投资银行呢
Or what if it is investment banking? What about the pressure 而来自朋友和同事的压力说
that I hear from my friends and colleagues who say "你应该做点别的"
"well you should do something else"- 用你的哈佛文凭去找更好的工作时的压力
more "noble" with your Harvard education. 最好的工作就是听从你的内心
The most noble thing is to listen to that inner voice. 因为当我们追求自己热爱的事业时
Because when we pursue our passions. 当我们追求自我和谐的目标
When we pursue a self-concordant goal 和自我和谐的奋斗过程时 我们才能真正地活着
and a self-concordant journey,that's when we come alive 才能将世界变得更美好
and that's when we also make the world a better place. 甘地说过"你必须成为你希望看到的改变"
Remember Gandhi: "Be the change you want to see in the world." 如果你想让世界更快乐 就要从自己做起
And if you want a happier world,begin with yourself. 说起来容易做起来难
Easier said than done. 但这可能是你要问你自己的
But it's probably the most important question 最重要的问题
that you can ask of yourself. 而答案是有可能改变的
And by the way,that answer may change. 今天可能是这样
It may be one thing today 两年半后可能就不一样了
and be something different two and a half years from now. 二十二年半后可能又完全不一样
And it may be very different 22 and a half years from now. 或者五十年后
Or 50 years from now. 但问这个问题 如果我们真正地
But asking this question- when we really, 问自己这个问题 就有了可能性
truly ask this question,we open up possibilities 能看到我们以前看不到的东西
and see things that we may have not seen before. 打个比方 看到了公车上的孩子
Our- metaphorically speaking,children on the bus. 我们的命运 天命 职责 使命
Our fate.Our destiny.Our vocation.Our calling. 我觉得将这一点
I think it was captured best- 概括得最好的是
this whole idea by one of the students 两年前坐在你们现在坐的地方的一个学生
who sat where you are sitting just two years ago, 也是《商业中的女性》的创办人之一
also one of the cofounders of Women in Business, Ambani Carter 她说"我们不应专注于生命中可以拥有的
Ambani Carter: Instead of focusing on what we can live with, 而应想到那些我们生命中不可或缺的
we should be thinking about what we can't live without." 少了什么你活不下去 你需要什么
What can't you live without? What are you about? 我们的下一话题 关于目标
Our next topic related to goals, 关于我们上次讲到的
related to what we discussed last time 我相信你们没有一个人能想到
is something that I'm sure none of you can relate to, 这对于你和你身边的朋友来说
something that is completely foreign to you 都是非常陌生的
and your friends sitting around you. 就是... 我没预料到会出现这样的情况
And that is not what I expected to come up on this screen, 但很快我们就会讲到的 我保证
but soon we will get to that topic,I promise. 在我们进入那个非常重要的话题之前
Just a few- before we move on to that very important topic, 我只是想制造气氛 这都是设计好的
I just want to build tension.It was all planned of course. 在我们进入那个话题之前 讲讲制定目标的一些建议
Before we get to that topic,just a few tips about setting goals. 非常基本的建议
Some basic ones. 首先 要把它们写下来
First,write them down. 写下来就是做一种承诺
You know writing them down is making a commitment, 比起只是把它们说出来
much more of a commitment than just saying them even. 最好是公开地把它们说出来
It's better to say them publicly 而不是只说给自己听 或者只是想想
than just to say them just to ourselves or think about them. 但把它们写下来完全不同
But writing them down makes a difference. 很多研究都显示了制定计划
A lot of research showing the effect of making plans, 列出并写下目标的作用
lists and writing goals. 其次 制定最早期限
Second,set lifelines. 很多人都会说"最后期限"
You know people talk about deadlines. 我的妻子Tammy说"我觉得制定最早期限
Tammy,my wife says,"I think it's much more effective, 会更有效 更有帮助"
much more useful to set lifelines." 也就是我们希望完成这些目标的日期
Dates by which we hope to achieve those certain goals. 为什么要制定最早期限呢 因为目标
Why lifelines? Because goals, 尤其是自我和谐的目标是可以激励我们的
especially self-concordant goals are about inspiring us. 换句话说 给我们注入活力
In other words,putting the spirit inside us. 它们使我们的生活更快乐
They are about making our life happier. 更具有活力 因此要制定最早期限 制定目标 这非常重要
More energetic.So lifelines.Setting goals.Very important. 不是"我马上就做这些事"
It's not I-will-do-the-following-soonish; 而是"我在2009年7月1日前做好这些事"
it's "I will do the following by the first of July,2009. 加上日期 使它们细化
Connected to this- making them specific. 换言之 不是说我马上 或者很快就会
In other words,it's not I'm going to improve sales pretty soon, 提升销量 而是
or very quickly,but rather- 我会在2008年12月31日前使销量增加5%
I'm going to increase sales 5 percent by December 31,2008. 具体的最早期限 以及具体的目标
Specific lifeline as well as specific project. 同样 比如说我想健身
Also,let's say that I want to become fit. 不是一般的"我想要更苗条健康"
It's not just the generic "I want to become fitter"; 而是"我要在2008年10月15日前
it's rather "I'm going to run 5 miles, 每周跑四次步 每次5英里" 明确 具体的目标
4 times a week by October 15,2008." Concrete.Specific. 我们讲过
Remember what we talked about- 制定目标最重要的不是在于完成这些目标
the most important thing about goals is not achieving those goals 不是说我们会因为完成就感到高兴
It's not that is what would make us happy or sad 或者没完成就悲伤
if we do or don't achieve them. 其关键在于给予我们能量 给予我们动力 使我们自由
The key is to energize us,to motivate us,to liberate us, 是通往最终目的的一种方式
to contribute as a means toward the end- 而最终目的是过程本身
the end being the journey. 是那些最有助于这个过程的目标或者
The goals that facilitate the journey best or goals 我们所拥有的
that we actually have- 不是所有 但一部分 完成了一半的目标
not all goals,but some goals- 50 percent of achieving. 就像肯尼迪在1962年提出的目标
It's the goals such as Kennedy set in 1962, "我们要在这十年中登上月球"
"we will reach the moon by the end of the decade," 而那时能够忍受
at the time when the metal that 飞到外太空以及回到地球所产生的高温的
was necessary to withstand the heat of getting out of the space 金属都还没发明出来
and coming back to earth was not even invented. 那时他们
It was at a time 都还没有能将人送往月球
when they did not have the technology on numerous levels to send, 并使其着陆的技术
to land a person on the moon. 然而他宣布了这个目标
And yet,he declared that goal that "十年内我们要做到" 这给予了NASA动力
"by the end of the decade,we will do it." It energized NASA- 有些人觉得他疯了 但它确实给予了他们动力
some people thought he was crazy,but it energized them. 而在1969年后
And you know,after 1969, NASA动力严重减少
NASA experienced a real drop in their motivation, 热情急剧减退 一直持续到80年代中期
in their passion.Until essentially the mid 80s. 因为他们没有类似的激励性的目标了
Because they didn't have a similar inspiring goal. 在个人水平上同样可以看到
We see it also in the individual level. 我在书里也说道
And I talked about it in the book, 当人们有了目标而没有实现这些目标
where people had goals and then did not achieve these goals, 或者实现了目标却没有制定新目标时
or achieve these goals and did not set new goals. 他们就会感到精疲力竭 失去动力
And they felt enervated,and very often,uninspired. 要明确目标
Stretch goals. Ellen Langer做了以下研究
Ellen Langer did the following research: 聚集一组人
bringing in a group of people 将他们介绍给成功的科学家和发明家
and introduce them to highly successful scientists and inventors. 然后告诉他们
And she asked them- 这些是世界知名的科学家
these were you know world famous,world class performers- 然后她让这些人
and she asked these individuals, 让这些学生评估这些成功人士
these students to assess these very successful individuals 然后问"你觉得你有多大可能达到他们的水平"
and then to say,"how likely are you to reach their level?" 然后他们给了这些人非常高的评价
And they assess them extremely highly. 尊重他们 敬仰他们
They respect them.They admire them. 说自己永远达不到他们的水平
And they said that they are unlikely to achieve their level. 然后她又召集了另一群学生
And then,she brought a second group of students 带他们去见同样的人
and she got them to look at the exact same individuals- 同一批非常成功的科学家 发明家
same highly successful scientists,inventors, 一个举动改变世界的人
people who really made it with one difference. 她还介绍了他们走向成功之路的
She also introduced some of the characteristics 一些过程和特点
of their path toward greatness. 比如说经历的失败
For example,failures on the way. 不安 失望 坎坷
Insecurity.Disappointments.Hardships. 以及他们最终是怎样从这边跨越到另一边的
And how they actually got from point A to point B. 然后她让他们评价这些成功人士
And she asked them to evaluate them. 他们同样给了这些人很高的评价
And they respected them highly,just as much. 而当她问
And when she asked "你觉得你有多大可能达到他们的水平"时 回答则是有可能
"how likely are you to achieve those goals," - much more likely. 我们都知道 信仰是自我实现的预言
And as we know,beliefs are self-fulfilling prophecies. 长期成功的最佳预言者
No.1 predictor of long term success. 此外 是John Carlton做的研究
In addition- the John Carlton research, 除了不断地问问题
in addition to constantly asking questions, 重要的是相信你能做到
it's believing that you can do well. 如果我们只看结果不看过程
And if we only look at the outcome and not the journey, 我们比较不容易相信
we are much less likely to believe that 我们能取得这样的结果
we can attain this outcome. 使成功破灭
Breaking down successes. Langer说"人们能想象到自己的每一步
Langer said,"People can imagine themselves taking steps, 但却觉得高峰是难以攀登的"
while great heights seem entirely forbidden." 制定一个长期目标
Have a long term goal 然后将其拆分为短期或者中期的目标
and then break it down to short term or medium term goal. 短期目标
Short term goal. 然后制定计划 基于这些计划建立习惯
And then make plans and then create rituals based on these plans. 一步一步来 将成功细化
Step by step.Breaking down achievement. 就会更容易相信那是可能的
Much more likely to believe that's possible 也就更容易确实到达那个目标
and consequently much more likely to actually get there. 女士们先生们
And now ladies and gentlemen, 你们等待已久的时刻
the moment you've all been waiting for. 一些你们都不熟悉的东西
Something that none of you are familiar with. 你们可能没有仔细想过
That you may not be able to connect to, 但是是一种... 请让我说完 我会讲的
but something that- please indulge me and I'll talk about. 压力 我在课堂开始时问
Stress.So I asked at the beginning of the class "有谁想要少点压力的"
"who wants to experience less stress". 你们大多数人都举了手
Most of you put your hand up. 压力是一种全球性的 不仅限于美国或西方社会 而是全球的通病
Stress is a global- not American,not Western- global epidemic. 在这节课最后
By the end of this class, 这二十分钟里 我希望我们都像这样
within 20 minutes,my hope is that we all look like this. 如果你们没到21就去掉啤酒
Minus the beer if you are not 21 yet. 处理压力最重要的一点
Now the most important thing when dealing with stress- 这是一种全球性的严重的流行病
and again,it is a global,very problematic epidemic- 我们讲到拖延症
we talk about procrastination. 我出现拖延症时会这样做
This is what I do when I procrastinate. 我去Google图片搜索这样的东西
I go on Google image and look for things like that. 然后告诉自己这是你工作的一部分
And I tell myself it's part of your work. 这很重要
It's important.Yeah. 这是关于认知重建的
It's all about cognitive reframing. 在处理压力时 我们所要做的就是抽出点时间
When dealing with stress,what we need to do is take time out. 我来和你们分享一下 我以前讲过的
Let me share with you- again,I have talked about this before. 摘自《新英格兰医学杂志》
This is from the New England Journal of Medicine, 是由我们学校的Richard Kadison写的一篇文章
an article written by our very own,Richard Kadison. 他是本校心理咨询处的负责人
He's the head of the mental health services here. "在一项针对全国13500个大学生的调查中
"In a recent national survey of 13,500 college students, 近45%表示非常抑郁
nearly 45 percent reported being so depressed 以至于没法工作学习
that they had difficulty functioning, 94%表示对于他们做的事
and 94 percent reported feeling overwhelmed 感到了过大的压力"
by everything they had to do.” 45%
45 percent.You know,people, 人们问我哈佛的课程情况
when they ask me about the class at Harvard- 事实上那课程还挺有名的 他们说
the fact that it's a popular class,they say, "是因为在哈佛吗
"is it because it's Harvard? 是因为在哈佛压力比较大吗" 不是的
Is it because at Harvard there's more stress?" No,there isn't. 事实上 当Crimson做了类似的调查后
In fact,when the Crimson did,ask similar question, 他们发现在哈佛是47%
they found at Harvard 47 percent. 所以其实没有区别
So really,no difference. 这是全国性的 不管是哪个大学
Nationwide- regardless of which university, 哪个学院
which college you go to. 这非常令人吃惊 我震惊了
This is startling.I mean,I was shocked. 过去16年里我都在大学校园里
I know- I've been on college campus for the last 16 years. 我知道情况是怎样 但我还是对这个数字很惊讶
I know the situation.But I was even surprised by this number. 而且这不是我们平时一天要经历十遍的
And this is not the regular ups and downs 正常情绪起伏
that we go through 10 times a day. 而是会导致无法工作学习的抑郁
This is depression to the point of not functioning. 怎么解释这45%呢
How can we explain it? The 45 percent. 通过看这94% 让我说得具体一点
By looking at the 94 percent.Let me be more specific. 可以看到 今天的学生要做的事太多了
You see,students today clearly have too much to do. 当我还是Leverett宿舍的一个住校教师
When I was a resident tutor in Leverett House, 因为我的博士学位是商学院的
given that my PHD was also from the business school, 我当时还是个预备商学教师
my role was a pre business tutor. 所以我当时做的事 你们很多人都知道
So what I did,as many of you know, 我看学生们的简历
was I looked at students' resumes, 履历 然后帮他们润色
the CVs and helped them hone it, 使其更适用于他们找工作的
make it better for the recruiting process or other processes 招聘及其他环节
where they were looking for work. 令我非常惊讶的是 每年
And it really amazed me that just about every year, 几乎每年 简历都愈发令人印象深刻
just about every year,the resumes became more impressive. 字体更小 标题更大 页边距更窄
Smaller fonts,bigger titles,narrower margins. 每一年 老一辈进入哈佛的人
Each year,you know,very often,the older generation says- 他们会说
who have gone to Harvard- they say, "放在今天我肯定进不了哈佛"
"I wouldn't have got into Harvard today." 确实是这样 很不幸 但这是真的
It's true! It's unfortunate,but it's true. 当我看到这些简历时 感到印象非常深刻
And I looked at these resumes and I was very impressed. 我会说"哇" 直到我注意到学生们
And I said,"wow." Until I noticed a price that students- 为了这更小的字体和更窄的页边距所付出的代价
you,me- were paying for the smaller fonts and narrower margins. 这代价就是过度紧张不安
And the price is that we feel overwhelmed, 太多要做的事 压力 焦虑
too much to do,stress,anxiety. 结果导致
And as a result of it- 有许多数据能支持这一点
and there's a lot of data supporting this error- 结果导致了更大可能的抑郁
as a result of this,higher likelihood of depression. 这种情况我们时常会在大学校园见到
And this is what we see on college campuses. 会在整个国家各处见到
This is what we see around the country. 会在世界到处见到
This is what we see around the world. 我最近刚从中国回来
Because I recently returned from China- 并没有很大的差别
not very different from this. 我最近也去过澳大利亚 也与此非常相似
I recently came from Australia- very similar to this. 在过短的时间内希望完成过多的事
Try to fit in too many things in too little time: 学更多的课 参加更多的学生社团
taking more courses,being part of more student organizations. 这是需要付出代价的 这就是她
And that has...That exacts a price.OK.Here she is. 心理学家 独一无二的Ellen DeGeneres
The psychologist- the one and only Ellen DeGeneres 在谈论国家大事
talking about the state of affairs. 我觉得有一天情景喜剧只需要30秒
I believe some days sitcoms will be 30 seconds long. 因为我们只需要这么长的时间
Cause that's all we need. 我们的注意力就只能维持这么长时间
That's all our attention span can take. 因为我们的注意力维持时间很短
Cause our attention span is short. 我们都有注意力缺乏症
We've all got Attention Deficit Disorder 或者说ADD 或者OCD(强迫症) 或者这种三个字母的病
or ADD or OCD or one of these disorders with three letters 因为我们没有时间和
because we don't have the time 耐心来把整个病的名字说完
or patience to pronounce the entire disorder. 应该有一个这样的病 TBD-过于忙碌症
That should be a disorder right there,TBD - too busy disorder. 天气预报可能是新闻最快乐的部分了
The weather is actually the happiest part of the news 因为你们就能不时听到些积极的东西
because at some point you're going to hear something positive. 你们可以听到"今天天气不错"
You're going to hear"it's a beautiful day". 或者"今天将会有个好天气"
Or "it's going to be a beautiful day". 听积极的东西总是很好的
And it's nice to take in something positive. 因为我们总是听到那些消极的东西
Because we hear all these negative stuff all the time 我们外面的世界如此混乱
and we go out into the world so chaotic 以至于都没办法注意到天气很好
and we're not going to notice it's a beautiful day. 我们的节奏太快以至于无法注意到
We are moving too fast to even pay atention to that. 我们需要帮助来追赶这节奏
And we need help to keep up with that pace 所以我们在这建一个咖啡店
so we put a coffee shop here 这里建一个咖啡店 那里建一个咖啡店
and a coffee shop here and a coffee shop here. 最小的咖啡店叫"大咖啡"
And the smallest coffee is "Tall".And 我会要一杯咖啡伴一罐红牛 因为我很忙很忙!
I'll have a coffee and a side red bull cause I'm very very busy! 我患了TBD 我的瑜伽课要迟到了 快 快点!
I've got TBD and I'm late for yoga..Hurry hurry! TBD应该被收进DSM里
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:TBD should be part of the DSM.Really should be. 我们为这个TBD付出了很高的代价
We pay a very high price for this TBD. 首先 心理健康
First of all,psychological health- 抑郁症最容易导致的后果之一 生理健康
one of the best predictors of depression.Physical health. 许多医生估计约80%我们的生理疾病
Many doctors estimate about 80 percent of our physical ailments 是由于压力所致 使我们的免疫系统变弱
are result of stress,weaken our immune system. 最后 当下 今年
And finally,today,this year, 旷工的最大原因 全球来说
the No.1 cause for loss of days at work globally 是关于我们的心理的
is something related to our psychology, 不管是压力 或者情感 感觉 经历
whether it's stress,or related emotions,feelings,experiences. 过去从没有这样
It never used to be that in the past. 如今则是因为心理的原因
Today it's psychological reasons. 我们付出的代价
And we pay a price 不仅是效率 还有创造力
both in terms of our productivity as well as creativity. 回想拓延-建构理论
Think back to the broaden and build theory: 当我们处于压力下时 更容易变得狭隘和约束
when we are stressed,we are more likely to narrow and constrict, 相比于在盒子外思考来说
as opposed to think outside the box. 好了 那我们该如何处理这种压力呢
All right.So what do we do with this stress? 该怎么应对呢 让我们应用积极心理学
What do we do with it? Let's use positive psychology. 因为这确实是我们希望
Because it really is a problem that 能够解决的问题
we want to be able to deal with, 至少我个人
that I know,certainly,personally, 很早就想解决它了
it's a problem that I dealt with for very long time. 传统的问题
So the conventional question, 传统的心理学家会问
the traditional psychologist question was "为什么这么多人压力过大"
"why are so many people stressed?" 这是非常重要的 非常好的问题
An important question,good question, 能够引出很多好的回答 但仍然不够
question that yielded many great answers but not enough. 然后积极心理学出现了
And then positive psychologists came in. 而他们所做的是 同样问一些积极地问题
And what they did was ask also the positive question. 就像
Just like 我们在讲到关于危险人群的研究时说过
when we talked about the research with at risk population. 就像Marva Collins曾经问过一个不一样的问题
Just like Marva Collins asked a different question. 因为问题能打开思路
Because questions open up avenues, 探索我们之前可能没有见过的东西
quests that we may have not seen before. 这样问题就变成"那些成功的
And the question became "what do those who were successful 过着健康快乐生活的人是怎么做的"
and able to lead a healthy and happy life do?" 换句话说 关注起作用的事物
In other words,focusing on what works. 也就是关注茎尖端的芽
In other words,focusing on tip of the stem. 因为虽然很多人都压力过大 但不是所有人都这样
Because while most people are stressed,not all of them are. 有一些人能够很成功
There are people who are able to be successful 同时过着健康和快乐的生活
and at the same time,lead a health and happy life. 他们是怎么做的 他们做了些什么 他们是这样做的
What do they do? What is it about them? Here is what they do. 人们发现
What was found was that 他们有一些特别的特质 有两点
there are some distinguishing characteristics- two of them: 他们为自己建立例行公事
they set rituals for themselves 我们之前讲过例行公事的
and we talked about rituals in the past; 第二件事
the second thing that they do- 也就是我现在要详细讲的
and this is what I'm going to elaborate on now- 他们所做的第二件事 除了建立例行公事
the second thing that they do,in addition to having rituals, 不管是很多的例行公事
whether it's a lot of rituals, 还是寥寥几件 视乎个人需要和个人差异
or few rituals,depending on individual needs and differences. 除了建立例行公事
In addition to setting rituals, 他们还特别地不仅为工作 还为恢复也建立了例行公事
they particularly set rituals for both work and for recovery. 让我来解释一下 解释一下
Let me explain.Let me explain. 我现在要说的是
What I'm going to say now 心理学家以前没有意识到的
is some thing that psychologists did not see before, 因为它就像公车上的孩子一样隐藏着
because it was hidden just like the children on the bus 或者被第一个问题掩盖着
or hidden by the first question. 只有问了第二个问题
It was only after asking the second question 他们才会注意到
that they notice this. 他们注意到这些人将工作和恢复
What they noticed was that these individuals ritualize work 例行公事化 本质上他们发现的是
and recovery and in essence what they found- 这是我觉得研究压力时所得的最惊人的结果
this is the most surprising result in my mind in studying stress- 那就是问题其实不在于压力
is that stress was actually not the problem. 我们找错了地方
We were looking in the wrong place. 事实上他们发现压力对我们是有好处的
In fact,what they found was stress was good for us! 压力实际上培养了我们的忍耐性
That stress actually cultivated resilience, 力量 并且从长远来讲让我们更快乐
strength and helped us be happier in the long run. 稍等片刻
Wait a minute. 这是什么意思呢 想想下面这个类比
What does that mean? Well,think about the following analogy. 想想运动方面
Think about the physical realm. 你发生了什么
What happens to you, 你去健身房时实际上发生了什么呢
what actually happens to you when you go to the gym? 当你去健身房 你举重时
when you go to the gym,you lift weights. 你对你的肌肉做了什么 你在给你的肌肉压力!
What are you doing to your muscle? You are stressing your muscle! 事实上
In fact, 你其实就在... 你的细胞在偷偷流泪
you are carrying part of the- there are micro tears in your cells. 请问这是坏事吗 你所做的事是坏事吗
Now is this a bad thing? That you are doing that? 完全不是 这是件好事
Not at all! It's a good thing. 因为你举重 然后两天之后
Because you lift weights and then two days later, 再去举重
you lift these weights again. 然后下周 你接着举重
And the next week,you continue lifting these weights. 长此以往
And on and on. 你举了一个月 两个月 四个 六个月
You do it for a month and two and four months and six months. 然后举了一年的重之后 你就会像我一样
And after a year of lifting weights,you begin to look like me! 或者也不会 所以压力其实对我们是有好处的
Or maybe not.So the stress part is actually good for us. 那真正的问题是什么呢
What's the problem though? 比如说压缩肌肉时 问题是从什么时候开始的呢
When do the problems begin with stressing those muscles? 是你去举重 然后一分钟之后
It's when you lift weights,and a minute later, 你又去举重
you lift the same weights again, 然后不断举 不断举 不断不断地举
and again,and again,and again,and so on and so on. 然后会发生的事就是
What would happen to you then, 如果你不休息 不管是运动之间的休息
if you don't take a break,whether it's a break between sessions, 或者是休息几天 那么会发生什么呢
whether it's break,days break? What happens to you then? 你就会受伤 到时你就会受伤
That's when you get injured.That's when you get hurt. 那时你的肌肉就会拉伤
That's when you actually tear or pull a muscle. 那时你就会锻炼过度
That's when you become over-worked- 这既有生理上 也有心理上的影响
and that has psychological as well as physical effects. 这时候你就是锻炼过度了
That's when you are over-trained. 换言之 问题不在于压力
In other words,the problem is not stress, 不是生理上的问题 也不是心理上的问题
not on the physical level,nor on the psychological level. 问题在于缺少恢复
The problem is lack of recovery. 那些既成功又快乐幸福的人
Individuals who are both successful,happy,thriving, 是会感受到压力的
flourishing are ones who do experience stress. 然而他们很注重恢复
However,they also pay very close attention to recovery. 就好像在座的任何运动员都知道
Just like any athlete here in this room knows that 你们会有调整期 在重要比赛前都会有休息
you have tapering,you have time-off before important games. 你们不会每天去举重
You don't lift the same weights day in and day out. 从心理层面上讲也是这样
The same thing on the psychological level. 如果我们不懂得休息
If we don't take breaks, 我们会付出代价 在生理层面上 我们会受伤
we will pay a price- on the physical level,we get injured; 在心理层面上
on the psychological level, 我们会感觉到焦虑 最终可能导致抑郁
we experience anxiety,ultimately,potentially depression. 压力没有关系 它是好事
Stress is fine.It's good. 如果我们能恢复 它有时甚至是很令人兴奋的
It's exciting at times,if we also have recovery. 我想和你们再分享一些
I want to share with you now some more ideas 我之前提过的书里写的东西
from the book that I talked about before, 《精力管理》
"The Power of Full Engagement"- 我非常推荐你们读这本书
that again,I highly recommend you read. 也许在春假时你们可以读一读
Maybe over your spring break. Tony Schwartz和Jim Loehr想说的是
And what Tony Schwartz and Jim Loehr talk about, 我们所要做的是将我们对生活的理解
is that what we need to do is change our perception of our day 从马拉松运动员变为短跑运动员
from being marathon runners to being sprinters, 从不停地跑 跑 跑
from going on and on and on 变为短跑 恢复 短跑 恢复
to sprinting,recovery,sprinting,recovery. 这个想法 这个想法改变了我的人生
That understanding,that understanding changed my life. 我曾经是个马拉松运动员 我是指在工作上
I was a marathon runner,metaphorically- meaning at work. 我每天工作14个小时
I used to work 14 hours a day. 我热爱我的工作 非常努力
I loved my work.I worked extremely hard. 然后我决定结婚生子
And then I decided to get married and to have children. 我知道因此可能一切会变得不一样
And I knew that things would change as a result of that. 我说"好吧 我必须妥协
And I said,"OK.I have to compromise. 我只能一天工作少于14个小时
I have to work less than 14 hours a day, 如果我想和我的妻子以及孩子
if I want to maintain a healthy relationship 保持良好的关系的话"
with my spouse and with my kids." 我某种程度上有点失望 但我有我优先的考虑
And it disappointed me to some extent,but I have my priorities. 我做了这样的决定
And I made a choice. 然后我遇到了Tony Schwartz
And then I met Tony Schwartz, 他只用了几分钟就改变了我的观念
who within a few minutes changed my perception, 改变了我对我的人生应该是怎么样的理解
my understanding of what my day can and ought to look like. 当他跟我说时 我立即意识到就应该是这样的
And when he explained to me this,it made immediate sense. 我开始应用它
I started to implement it. 而今天我可能没有一天工作14小时
And today I may not be as productive as I was 那么有效率 但也十分接近了
when I worked for 14 hours a day,but very close to it. 而我显然更快乐了
And I'm certainly happier. 我比还是个"马拉松运动员"时更有创造力
And I'm more creative than I was when I was a marathoner. 他的建议是这样的
And here is his suggestion- 他书里讲到这样一个东西
one of the things that he talks about in the book; 这是我推荐的一种习惯
this is a ritual that I recommend and it is: 用一到两个小时 也就是大约一个半小时
have 60 to 120 minutes,so around 90 minutes 来"短跑" 专注地工作 精力非常集中
of sprint,work,concentrate,focus hard,go for it. 然后在那之后 "短跑"之后
And then after that,after you sprint, 在尽可能少分心的情况下
with as little distraction as possible, 用十五分钟来恢复
have 15 minutes or so of recovery. 心理学家发现我们能够"短跑"
What psychologist found is essentially we are able to sprint, 能够专注 按照我们的生物钟
to focus,according to our bio-rhythms, 能持续一到两个小时 每个人可能不同
between 60 and 120 minutes- it differs. 有些人是一个小时 有些人可以持续两小时
Some people are more 60; others can do it for two hours. 平均是一个半小时 "短跑"之后 休息十五分钟
Average: 90 minutes.After you sprint,take 15 minutes off, 可以是冥想
whether it's for meditation, 听你最喜欢的音乐
listening to your favorite piece of music; 也可以是去健身
whether it's for going to the gym- 可以多于十五分钟 但至少要十五分钟
can be of course more than 15 minutes,but at least 15 minutes; 吃午饭 休息一下 但在午饭时
having lunch,having a break- and during lunch, 不收邮件 不接电话
not doing emails and being on the phone, 那些只会增加焦虑
which only adds to the stress- 而是和朋友一起或独自完全放松
really relaxing with friends or by ourselves. 如果我们的一天是
And when we have a day that 短跑 恢复 短跑 恢复
structured with sprint,recovery,sprint,recovery, 我们就能持续
that's when we can sustain, 能够维持高水平的精力
when we have a higher levels of energy, 做更多的工作 并且更快乐
when we get the most done and when we are happiest. 我现在的生活就是如此
This is my day now. 我的一天就是短跑 恢复 短跑 恢复
My day comprises sprint,recovery,sprint,recovery. 我能做更多的工作
I'm able to get so much more done. 我理想的一天就是一个半小时工作 十五分钟冥想
My ideal day,work day is 90 minutes,15 minutes meditation; 一个半小时 午餐 一个半小时 运动
90 minutes,lunch; 90 minutes,work out; 一个半小时 回家和家人在一起
90 minutes,home with family. 我一天净工作6个小时
Actually net- I work for 6 hours a day. 但在这6个小时中
But in those 6 hours, 我能做比十小时还多的事 更不用说
I get more than I would have in 10- not to mention the fact 我更快乐 并且更有创造性了
that I am happier and more creative doing it. 这样的关键在于维持灵活性
The key when doing it is to maintain flexibility, 因为... 对我来说理想的一天是这样的
because- again,the ideal day for me would be that. 然而总是有一些别的事
However,there are other things, 比如我经常出差 我要教课
you know- I travel a lot; I teach a class. 在这种时候 我不在电脑旁
During those times,let's say I'm not by my computer, 写东西或做研究
writing or doing research- again, 但是因为这些事对我来说很重要
because these are important things to me. 所以我会做的是 比如说
So what would I have done for example 我要十个一个半小时的时间段
is say I want ten 90 minutes sessions, 例行的每周十个一个半小时时间段
the ritual of ten 90 minutes session a week. 有一些这种时间段是在飞机上 这没关系
Some of these 90 minutes sessions are on a flight and that's OK. 有一些时间段我在家里或者在办公室里
Some of these 90 minutes sessions are at home or in my office. 但每周至少要有十个 通常多于十个
But at least ten,usually more than ten, 一个半小时的时间段 当我做到时 我很快乐
90 minutes sessions a week.And when I have it,I'm happy. 我感觉很好 我做了很多事 又比如瑜伽的习惯
I feel good.I get a lot done.Also,the ritual of yoga. 维持灵活性
Maintain flexibility there. 对我来说很困难的一件事就是
So one of the things that are difficult for me 每天留出45分钟或一个小时的时间段
is to introduce a 45 minutes or one hour session a day. 但瑜伽对我来说很重要
And yoga is important for me. 它使我感觉良好
It makes me feel good. 我在放假回来之后会谈到关于它的研究
And I'll talk about the research around it after break. 所以我所做的是 拆分瑜伽的时间段
So what I started to do was breaking down yoga sessions and 现在那15分钟的间隔有时是15分钟的瑜伽
now part of my 15 minutes in between is 15 minute yoga,sunset 15分钟的日落瑜伽
For 15 minutes 然后下一个15分钟做另一种瑜伽练习
and then the next 15 minutes is another part of yoga practice. 所以我将瑜伽拆分成每天两到三个时间段
So I break yoga into two or three sessions a day instead of one. 又是例行公事的灵活性
Again,the flexibility of ritual. 这对我来说有用 非常有效
And that for me works.Works very well. 关键在于 我最后要讲讲这个
The key is,and I am going to end with this- 关键在于保证不同程度的恢复
the key is to attain multi-level recovery. 第一种恢复 从最小的级别
First recovery: on the micro level. 15分钟的冥想 一小时健身
15 minutes meditation,one hour of gym, 或者是午餐休息 随便什么
whatever it is,a lunch break. 中间级别的恢复就是睡一个好觉
Middle: mezo level recovery and that is a good night sleep. 我们会讲到睡觉的重要性
We'll talk about the importance of sleep- 睡眠是对幸福 对快乐 对创造力
sleep is a good investment for well being, 以及对你的记忆力的重要投资
happiness as well as for you creativity,for your memory. 睡眠很重要 每周都要休息一天
Sleep is important.A day off during the week. 即使上帝也需要一天的休息 我们的生活也是这样
Even God needed a day off.Implemented in our lives. 最后就是假期 J.P.Morgan说过
And finally,those vacations.Remember J.P.Morgan: "我可以一年工作九个月
"I can do the work of a year in 9 months, 但不能工作12个月" 娱乐带来创造力
but not in 12." Recreation leads to creation. 记住这一点 请记住这一点
So remember that.Remember that. 下周二我们会在这里进行期中考试
Next week,we meet on Tuesday here for the midterm. 周四不用上课 记住假期就应该
Thursday- we don't have class.And remember the vacation. 好好地享受 祝你们好运 假期后见
Take time.Enjoy it.And good luck.See you after break. 



 Chapter 13: 过犹不及


各位早上好
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Hi.Good morning. 早上好 很高兴又见到大家
Good morning.Welcome back. 希望你们都度过了一个愉快的假期
Hope you had a wonderful break. 恢复元气 释放压力
That you took time to recover,to de-stress. 这也是今天的主题
And as it happens,this is the topic today. 我们接着上节课继续讲
We'll continue from where we left off before break. 上回我们提出 事实上
So remember we talked about the idea that in fact, 压力不是问题
stress wasn't the problem, 这是压力研究最有趣 最令人惊讶
which was the most interesting,surprising- but in retrospect, 现在看来 也是最显著的发现
obvious finding of the research on stress. 压力本身其实是件好事
That stress in and of itself is actually good, 就像在体育运动中
just like in athletics,just like in sports, 我们给肌肉以压力 肌肉就会发展 增长
when we stress a muscle,the muscle develop- it grows. 我们心理上情感上给予自己压力 我们就会成长
When we stress ourselves psychologically,emotionally,we grow. 变得更开朗 更坚强
We become more resilient.We become stronger. 从小在无菌环境里长大
It's not good for a person 从未受过外界任何压力
who's just born to be put in a sterile environment 对人是不利的
and be protected from all the stresses of the outside world, 比如影响机体的细菌
such as bacteria for example,which stresses the system. 会使人体产生抗体
Cause it forces to grade antibodies. 所以长在无菌环境中对我们是不利的
It's not good for us to be in a sterile environment, 不仅指生理上婴儿的密闭环境
not physically- whether it's in a closing environment as babies, 缺乏运动
not physically in terms of not doing sports, 还包括心理及情感
not pushing ourselves,and also not mentally and emotionally- 所以我常常说 我希望你们遭受更多的失败
which is why I said you know time and again: I wish you fail more 因为艰难困苦
Because I think it is important to go through hardships, 能给予我们极大的锻炼
through difficulties. 结束"目标设定"的课程后
And in fact,we are going to talk about failure 就会开始关于失败的课程
right after we finish up with the "Goal setting" lecture, 我们会讨论完美主义
when we discuss perfectionism, 也就是对待失败的态度
which is all about our approach toward failure. 所以问题不是压力 而是缺乏休整
So stress is not the problem.The problem is lack of recovery. 不仅仅在哈佛 我们的文化中
And that is what we don't have enough of in our culture- 都对休息缺乏重视
not just at Harvard. 大多数办公场所 都没有足够的地方进行休整
Most workplaces- there is not enough place for recovery; 大多数学校 大学
in most school,most universities- which explains 所以压力转变为慢性压力
why levels of stress translate themselves to chronic stress, 变成了长期焦虑
translate themselves to chronic anxiety, 变成了抑郁症
translate themselves to depression. 就因为我们没有休整
It's because we don't have the recovery. 我们还讲了不同层面的休整
And we talked about recovery on the a few levels- 快速回顾一下
so just a quick recap. 微观层面上 休整可以是
We talked about recovery on the micro level,which is, 比如 每冲刺90分钟 就休息15分钟
for example,every 90 minutes of sprint,15 minutes break- 不要做马拉松运动员 要做短跑运动员
instead of marathon runners,being sprinters. 可以是15分钟冥想
It's 15 minutes meditation. 一小时的午餐
It's a one hour lunch, 给自己时间好好休整
where we really give ourselves time to recover. 可以是定期去健身房
It's going to the gym on a regular basis. 听15分钟喜欢的音乐
It's the 15 minutes of listening to our favorite piece of music, 与朋友聊天 等等
speaking to a friend or whatever it is. 这是微观层面上的休整
The recovery on the micro level. 上班时间进行休整的人...
And people who recover,who have recovered during their work day- 河对岸的Teresa Amabile和Leslie Perlow等人
and this is research done across the river 经过研究发现
by people like Teresa Amabile or Leslie Perlow, 如果工作场所能提供休整
show how important it is in a workplace to have recoveries 能使员工效率更高 更有创意
and people who do it are more productive, 并且长期来看 会更幸福
more creative and in the long term,also happier. 提高工作满意度
Higher levels of job satisfaction. 中度休整包括一夜好眠
Recovery also on the mezzo level the full night sleep, 每周至少休息一天
the day off during once a week at least. 放松休息以便重新投入工作
Time off recreate so that we can create. 最后还有假期 节假日 长假
And finally,the vacations.Holidays.Longer periods. 如果我们片刻不停的运作
You see,the other thing that happens 会发生什么
when we are constantly on the run is that 我们错过了身边和自身的风景
we miss the beauty that's all around us and within us. 错过了获得快乐幸福
We miss the real potential for happiness,for joy, 欣赏日常生活中美的机会
for appreciation that surrounds us day in and day out. 所以我们把一切都当做理所当然
And that's why we take things for granted. 因为我们没有花时间去欣赏体会
Because we don't take the time to appreciate,to savor. 这有悖自然
And it's not natural to do so. 你们能想象
I mean can you imagine? 一头狮子生活在现代世界?
Can you imagine a lion living in our modern world? 在麦肯锡或者投资银行上班
Can you imagine a lion working at McKinsey? 或者成为终身教授?
Or in investment banking? Or being on the tenure track? 这很反常 大家都知道狮子要打瞌睡
It's unnatural.You know what a lion needs to do is yawn. 要追逐嬉戏 这才正常
They need to play.It is natural. 还记得我们头几节课
And remember what we talked about 怎么说的吗
during the first couple of lectures? 人性中视野的局限性
The constraint view of human nature- 服从权力
nature to be commanded must be obeyed. 人的天性需要休整
Our nature dictates that we need recovery. 所有动物都是
All animals do. 如果我们违背心理或生理需求
And when we frustrate a psychological,physical need, 就会为此付出代价 无论是需要休整
we pay a price for it,whether it's the need for recovery 需要身体锻炼
or the need for physical exercise, 还是需要某种维生素或蛋白质
or the need for certain vitamins or protein. 我们会为此付出代价 关键是
We pay a price for it.And the key is, 将这种本能的休整期引入我们的生活
to introduce these natural recovery periods into our lives. 关键就是集中注意
And here is the key.The key is focus. 同时关注工作与休整
Focus on both work as well as recovery. 想一下我们节前提出的问题
So remember the question that we asked before break. 处于相同的现代社会 拥有相似的雄心壮志
What makes some individuals succeed despite 为什么有些人能获得成功?
living in a modern world or living with ambition and success? 他们知道
Well these individuals know how to focus 何时聚焦工作 何时聚焦玩乐
when they work,when they play. 套句老话 他们努力工作玩得开心
To use a cliché,they work hard and they play hard. 具体是什么意思呢?首先 要休整
What does that mean specifically? First of all,in recovery. 他们明白多则劣 少则精
They understand that quantity affects quality. 我们来看一下诺贝尔奖得主
Let me share with you a study that you read about in the book. 以色列心理学家Daniel Kahneman
This is by Nobel Prize winner, 进行的一项研究
the Israeli psychologist Daniel Kahneman. 他曾获得诺贝尔经济学奖 后来成为了积极心理学家
Won Nobel prize for economics,turned positive psychologist. 他希望研究一天内
What he wanted to understand was the affective, 妇女的情感感情经历
the emotional experiences of women during the day. 他让一些妇女在经历了某些特定事件后
And what he did was ask women to evaluate their experiences 对此经历做出评估:
right after they had that particular experience: 刚才的感觉怎么样
so what was it like for you? 这些经历包括工作
And they evaluated their experience at work. 购物
They evaluated their experience shopping. 与亲密伴侣 孩子
They evaluated their experience 共处的时光
spending time with their intimate partners,with their children, 与朋友共进午餐 等等
having lunch with friends,whatever it was. 评估一天内她们的心情
They evaluated how they were doing during the day. 结果令人惊讶
The most surprising finding of this result was that 这些妇女并不特别享受
these women did not particularly enjoy time 与孩子共处的时光
they spent with their kids. 这一结果让Kahneman很吃惊
Now this result was very surprising to Kahneman. 他和合作者进一步研究发现
When he probed further- he and his co-authors: 这些妇女并不是不爱她们的孩子
it wasn't the fact that the women didn't love their kids. 她们很爱孩子
I mean they love their kids. 对其中大多数人来说 孩子是她们生活中
For most of these women,kids were the most meaningful, 最有意义 最重要的一部分
important thing in their lives. 但是 她们与孩子共处的经历
However,their experience with their kids 通常并不愉悦 这是快乐的第二个组成成分
often was not pleasurable- the second component of happiness. 有意义但不愉悦
very meaningful,but not always pleasurable. 为什么呢?他们进一步研究揭露了确切的原因
Why? When they probed further,they found out exactly why. 因为这些妇女与孩子共处时
Because these women,when they were with their kids, 并不是真正全身心与孩子在一起
they were not really with their kids, 可能同时还打电话
meaning they were on the phone at the same time, 或者写邮件
or doing email,or thinking about what they had, 思考上班的事 或者要做的家务
they did earlier at work,or what they had to do later at home. 她们一心多用 并没有全身心与孩子一起
They were distracted.And they were not present with their kids. 单独来看
Now individually,discreetly, 她们可能和乐意与朋友讲电话
they may have very enjoyed being on the phone with a friend, 工作 思考工作
or doing work,or thinking about work, 或者等下要做的事
or thinking about what they have to do later. 这些活动单独发生可能很有趣
Each discreet individual activity may have been a lot of fun. 但是同时进行 就乐极生悲了
But together,it was too much of a good thing. 量影响质
And quantity affects quality. 听听这个类比
I mean,thinking about the following analogy. 听听这个类比
Think about the following analogy. 想想你闭着眼睛 全神贯注地
Think about your favorite piece of music 听你最喜欢的音乐
and listening to it with your eyes close and focus. 我最喜欢的歌是
So your favorite piece of music- if it's like mine, 惠特尼休斯顿的《我会永远爱你》
probably is Whitney Houston's "And I will Always Love You". 谢谢
Thank you.Yes. 英雄所见略同
There's another one here with good taste in music. 于是你听着惠特尼休斯顿的歌
And you listen to Whitney Houston 或者其他你最喜欢的音乐
or whatever your favorite piece of music is. 闭着眼睛 全神贯注
You eyes close and you focus. 然后从一到十打个分数
Then you rate it on a scale of one to ten. 绝对是满分十分
And of course,perfect ten: you are touched. 你深受感动 灵感迸发
You are moved.You are inspired. 于是又开始听第二喜欢的音乐
And then you listen to your second most favorite piece of music, 如果是我
which,if it is like mine, 会选贝多芬的《第九交响曲》
it's the chorus piece from Beethoven's Ninth. 你全神贯注地听着
And you listen to it.You focus on it. 然后从一到十打分
And again,you rate it on a scale of one to ten. 没有《我会永远爱你》这么高
Not quite high as "And I will Always Love You", 但也有9.5分了
but it's a nine and a half. 接着 为了达到最大效果
And then,and then,for maximum effect, 你把两首歌同时播放
you take the two pieces together and play them. 结果怎样? 19.5分吗
And what do you get? A nineteen and a half,right? 不 不是10分 连5分也没有 纯粹是噪音
No.Not a ten.Not even a five.It's noise. 这就是现代生活
This is modern life for you.This is modern life. 我们进行各种活动 生活中有这么多美好的东西
We have activities; we have so many wonderful things in our lives 但是又多过头了
But we have too many of them. 这会怎样呢?
And you know what that often does? 这常常会导致内疚 沮丧
It very often leads to guilt and frustration. 为什么 因为我对自己说 这怎么可能
Why? Because I say to myself: how is that possible? 我喜欢做这些事
I love doing what I'm doing! 生活中能有这么多美好人事物
I'm so fortunate to have so many amazing,wonderful things, 我真是太幸运了
people,experiences in my life. 但我竟然不快乐
And yet I fail to be happy! 我肯定有什么不对劲
There must be something wrong with me. 不 你没有什么不对劲
No,there's nothing wrong with you. 这正常得很 就好像你不可能
It's perfectly natural,just like you will not be able to enjoy 同时欣赏两首歌
the two pieces of music played together even though 即使它们分别都是你最喜欢的音乐
individually they are your two most favorite pieces of music. 过犹不及 多则劣 少则精
Too much of a good thing.Quantity does affect quality. 这种情况常发生
You know,this happens constantly. 两年前 我教授积极心理学时
It happened to me two years ago 就发生过
when I was teaching positive psych. 刚开学一个月
It was one month into this semester, 我很困惑 为什么我不快乐
and it just didn't make sense to me: why wasn't I happy? 教学工作很顺利
The class was doing well. 我很喜欢上课 同时还担任咨询顾问工作
I was enjoying the class.I was doing a lot of work- consulting. 在全国进行关于积极心理学
I was speaking around the country 及以色列的讲座
about positive psychology,about Israel. 写作出书
I was writing and doing all the things that I love, 做各种我喜欢在乎 充满热情的事
that I care about,that I'm passionate about. 和家人在一起
Spending time with my family. 于是我退一步 发现我"过犹不及"了
And I took a step back and I realized "too much of a good thing". 一旦我减少活动量
And as soon as I cut the activities, 幸福指数又重新提升
happiness levels went back up again. 多则劣 少而精
Quantity affects quality. 两性关系研究者
Researchers on relationships and love, Hendrick夫妇认为
the Hendricks couple (Susan & Clyde Hendrick),say, "爱与性与压力成反比
"Love and sex are affected negatively by stress. 如果我们能帮助人们简化生活
If we can help people to simplify their lives, 降低压力水平
thus reducing their stress levels,it is very likely that 那他们关系的将会大大改善
people's relationships would be enriched greatly. 更重要的是 他们生活中的积极方面
Moreover,the positive aspects of their lives 也会相应得到提升"
would be enriched accordingly." 它会影响我们生活的方方面面
It affects every area of our lives,whether it's our love life, 无论是爱情生活 与孩子共处
whether it's our experience with our kids, 工作 阅读
whether it's our experience doing work or reading, 与朋友共处 写作
spending time with friends or writing. 都可能造成过犹不及
There can be too much of a good thing. 所以如果我们把午餐作为休整
So if we have lunch and we use lunch as recovery, 同事还打电话 写邮件
and at the same time we are on the phone and doing email, 那就不是休整了 而是更多的压力
that's not recovery; that's simply more stress. 但如果我们只是享用午餐 享受美食
But if we have just lunch and focus on our eating and enjoy it, 或者只是与爱的人呆在一起 那就是休整
or just spend time with people we love,that's recovery. 专注是关键 工作也是如此
The key is focus.The same thing applies to work. 但是在当今社会
Now it's not possible in our world today, 尤其是处于领导地位
certainly not in leadership positions 你们很多人可能已经...或者将来即将体验
which many of you already got or will assume in the future, 不可能避免多任务
it's not possible to eliminate multi-tasking. 关键就是减少任务
The key though is to reduce it. 我们来统计一下 在座有多少人
Just a quick show of hands: how many people here, 从事需要集中注意力的工作时
while you are doing work that requires concentration, 无论是写作 阅读
that requires focus- whether it's writing,or doing reading, 或者其他什么需要专注的工作时
or anything else that requires concentration- 有多少人同时还开着邮箱的?
how many people here have their emails on at the same time? 很好 占大多数
OK.It's the majority. 几乎所有人都这样
It's most people in the West that,who do that. 我以前也这样 后来我读到了这项研究
I used to do that too.Until I found out about this research. 当你开着邮箱
When you have your email on, 从事需要集中注意的工作时
while you are doing work that requires concentration, 等于智商减少10 整整10分
it is equivalent to taking off 10 IQ points.10 IQ points. 我不知道各位怎样 但我可不能少10点智商
Now I don't know about you; but I can't spare 10 IQ points. 作为比较 如果你一整晚通宵
Now for comparison's sake,if you lose a whole night sleep, 36小时不睡
so if you haven't slept for 36 hours, 也等于智商减少10点
your IQ is reduced by the equivalent of 10 points. 另一项比较: 如果你抽大麻
Another point of comparison: if you smoke marijuana, 智商会减少4
if you smoke grass,your IQ's reduced by 4 points. 所以如果你...面临选择
So if you have- look I mean it's the choice- 是要找乐子 还是降低智商 但千万别吸毒
more fun,less IQ points.Well but don't inhale. 希望你们没录到前面
Now I hope you didn't record that there.Here is the study. 伦敦大学进行过一项研究
This was done in the University of London. 上班时发短信的人
The IQ of those who try to juggle messages 智商会降低10
at work fell by 10 points, 与整晚通宵的人一样
the equivalent of missing a whole night sleep, 抽大麻才4.4点 比这2倍还多
and more than doubled 4.4 seen after smoking marijuana. 听着 如果你关邮箱2小时
Look,nothing will happen 不会发生什么大不了的事
if you switch off your email for 2 hours at a time. 什么也不会发生 除了这种情况:
Nothing will happen.Except for thing that will happen. 你可能会收到另一条消息问:
You'll get another message saying, 服务器是不是当了?
you know- the server may have been down or, 你没收到我的邮件?
so you are not sure you got my email. 其实你收到邮件了
Right you get those emails, 如果一两小时内不回复
if you don't respond for about an hour or two, 对方就以为服务器挂了
the server may have been down. 除此以外 什么也不会发生
But other than that,nothing will happen, 即使你不回复
if you don't respond to emails, 即使把邮箱关个两三小时
if you don't have your emails on for two,three hours. 同样 就算你不是每个电话都接 也不会怎么样
Nothing will happen if you don't answer the phone every moment. 除非你是救护车司机
Unless you are an ambulance driver, 那还是开着电话吧
in which case you should have it on. 除此以外 都可以关了电话
But otherwise,it's fine.Switch it off. 少做点事 可以完成得更多
Doing less- and when you do less,you get so much more done. 创造力提升 效率提高 工作满意度提升
Creativity goes up.Productivity goes up.Work satisfaction goes up 因为我们分心时
Because when we are distracted, 就会过犹不及
there can't be too much of a good thing. 我提到过很多技巧
I've spoken about so many techniques already. 比如记日记
I speak about some more about journaling, 表达感激 写感谢信
about doing gratitude exercise,about writing a gratitude letter. 今天我们还会讲到生理锻炼
We are going to talk about doing more physical exercise. 仁爱之举 等等
We talk about act of kindness and so many things,but 但是最关键不是要多做事
really the key thing is actually not to do the additional things, 而是少做 或者说是明确
but to do less,or rather to identify the things that 你真心想做的 然后坚定不移地执行
you really,really want to do with your life and do them. 因为多则劣 少则精
Because quantity affects quality. 人本主义心理学家Tim Kasser
Tim Kasser,a humanistic psychologist 做过一项关于时间充裕的研究
has done research on time affluence. 我们已经知道
As we know from research, 物质充裕对于我们的幸福感影响不大
material affluence matters very little to our well being, 基本需求得到满足之外
beyond having our basic needs met, 几乎不会影响我们的幸福感
hardly even affects our well being. 但是 的确会影响我们幸福感的
However,what does affect our well being 是Kasser所说的"时间充裕"
is what Kasser calls "time affluence", 这是一种感觉 我们感到时间充裕
which is the feeling that we have time, 感到我们能充分享受手头所做的事
the feeling that we can savor the things that we are doing, 而不是竹篮打水 做无用功
that we are not constantly chasing our own shadow, 东奔西跑 压力巨大
that we are not constantly running around and feeling stressed. 时间充裕的人
And people who have time affluence in their lives- 往往容易获得幸福感
that is a good predictor of well being. 这点我们可以详细介绍
And that is something that we can introduce. 即使现代生活
Granted,more difficult in a place like this 充斥着种种使人分心的诱惑
where there are so many appealing distractions. 我用了"使人分心"这个词
I'm using the word "distraction" here, 虽然这些诱惑
even though many of these things 对你来说可能美好精彩 意义非凡
may be wonderful,amazing,meaningful things to you. 但如果同时出现
But when they all come together, 很不幸 会让你分心
it becomes unfortunately the experience of distraction. 现代社会的运转常常与快乐对立
You know modern world functionality is being pitted against fun. 所以问题是
The questions is 如何让我们的生活 充满乐趣同时又正常运转
how do you make our life fun as well as functionality, 类似于当下与未来的利益
which is parellel to the present and future benefit. 我们知道要休整 重拾生活中的乐趣
And what we know is that we recovery,fun recovery in our lives- 听喜欢的音乐
listening to our favorite piece of music and 而且每次只能一首
only listening to our favorite piece of music and one at a time; 或者与朋友共进午餐
or having lunch with friends 与室友在家一起享用晚餐
or nice dinners in our house with our roommates. 当我们一起享受时光时
When we savor the time together, 不仅仅是快乐 而且有用
it's not just fun,it's also functional. 是正式休整
It's also a formal recovery. 问题是如何调和快乐与有用?
The question is how do you reconcile? How do you do the 'and'? 还记得积极心理学提出的问题吗
Cause remember the question that positive psychologists ask: 快乐 健康且成功的人士 是如何达成这一切的?
what do people who are happy,healthy AND successful do? 这一问题一经抛出
And once they started to ask this question, 就打开了所有可能性
it opened up all the possibilities, 出现了各种各样的回答
all the answers came rushing in literally. 其中一种回答是 聚焦工作 聚焦休整
And one of the answers is- focus on work,focus on recovery. 则工作效率更高 质量更佳
You'll get much more done and much better. 英语语言中最短的
One of the shortest- or the shortest word- 但又人人害怕的单词是
in the English language and yet people are so afraid of it, "不"
saying "no"- 无论是对寻求帮助的人说不
whether it's saying no to people who ask you something, 还是对眼前的机遇说不
again saying no empathically,or saying no to opportunities. 因为我们对某些机遇说"不"
Because essentially when we are saying no to some opportunities, 对某些提议说"不"时
when we are saying no to some offers, 其实是对自己说"是"
we are saying yes to ourselves. 那如何选择对什么说"不"
And how do we choose what do we say no to 对什么说"是"呢
and what do we say yes to? – 很简单 问自己究竟想要什么
By simply asking what do I really,really,really want to do. 简化 宁缺毋滥
Simplifying- doing less,rather than more. 关键就是找到最适宜的简化程度
The key though is to reach optimum levels of simplicity. 因为过于简化
Because we don't want to simplify too much 就会走向另一个极端
and go to the other extreme. 和其他事物及诸多心理学显现一样
You see,in a way,it works,as many things work, 简化与效率是以曲线形式存在
many psychological phenomenon work,in a curve linear manner. 我来解释一下
Let me explain. 这张图表的X轴代表工作量
So let's say we have a graph where this is amount of work. Y轴代表效率 创造力与快乐
And on this axis we have productivity,creativity and happiness. 两者的关系是这样的
The way it work,the way it looks,is this way,meaning: 如果工作量太大
if our amount of work is too high, 就会发生TBD 即忙碌紊乱症
that's when we experience the TBD,Too Busy Disorder. 我们会不快乐 缺乏创造力 效率低下
We are unhappy; we are not creative; and we are not productive. 精疲力竭
This is the burn-out. 也许短时间能效率和创造力能维持一段时间
We may be productive and creative for a short while, 但这点代表精疲力竭
but this is the burn-out phase. 另一方面 如果我们什么也不做 那也不好
On the other hand,if we do too little,that's also not good. 后果相似 我们会不快乐
And very similar consequences- we are unhappy; 没有效率 缺乏创新
we are certainly not productive; and we are not creative. 这点代表极端拖延
This is extreme procrastination, 我们马上会讲到
which we will talk about in a minute. 这点代表过度工作
This is over work. 我们要发掘
What we want to find is our optimum- 各自的最适宜点 每个人都不一样
for each person,this is in a different place. 有些人 图的位置可能靠这里
I mean,this graph can be situated here for one person, 有些人可能更靠前
and here for another. 但是每个人都会有个最适宜点
But each person has this optimal level. 这点代表了效率 创造力
And this is where highest level 以及快乐的理想状态
of productivity,creativity and happiness is. 例如气体再少也能充满整个空间
So on the one extreme we have the law of gas 也适用于时间管理方面
essentially applied to time management. 即使我们工作再少
But even if we have very little work, 它会占用我们所有时间
it will take up all of our time. 这样我们变得效率低下 缺乏创造力 不快乐
And then we are not productive,not creative,not happy. 另一方面是...我常常引用JP Morgan的一句话
On the other hand,we have- the quote that I've used time 他可以在9个月能完成一年的工作
and again by J.P.Morgan,that he can do a year's work in 9 months 但不能花12个月 需要休息时间
but not in 12 and the need for time-off. 你的理想值在哪里 这两者间你在哪
Where is your optimal level? Where are you? Between these two. 你得自己摸索 反复试验
You need to find out.It's trial and error. 期间会犯很多错误 没关系 我们就是这样学习的
And it's a lot of error.And that's OK.That's how we learn. 本质上 我们关注的就是可持续增长
Essentially what we are about is sustainable growth. 梭罗说过"要简单 简单 再简单
Henry David Thoreau: "Simplicity,simplicity,simplicity! 依我说 你要做的事应当是两三件
I say let your affairs be as two or three, 而不是成百上千件
and not a hundred or a thousand; 数上半打 而不要数上百万
instead of a million count half a dozen... 在这多变的文明生活的海洋里
In the midst of this chopping sea of civilized life, 云雾 风暴 流沙
such are the clouds and storms and quick sands 和许许多多事情都得考虑
and the thousand-and-one items to be allowed for, 他要成功 就必须是台出色的计算器
and he must be a great calculator indeed who succeeds. 简化 再简化" 这段话写于1840年代
Simplify.Simplify ." This was written around 1840. 那到了21世纪 我们还要如何简化呢
How much more do we need to simplify today,in the 21st century? 我们关注的是可持续增长
And what we are about,again,is sustainable growth. 这一比喻借鉴自环境保护论
I've used this metaphor from environmentalism. 什么是可持续增长? 比如塞内加尔
What's sustainable growth? So when a country like Senegal 想要进行可持续增长 该如何进行?
is now talking about sustainable growth,what does it mean? 这不是说他们停止增长
It doesn't mean that it wants to freeze progress. 而是指他们想要增长 但以一种可持续的方式
It means that it wants to grow,however,in a sustainable way, 也就说"对环境的损耗
which means- "let's take out of the environment 要控制在可以人工帮助下自然恢复的范围内"
what can be replenished naturally through our help." 与我们所说的心理学概念
The exact same thing we are talking about 完全一致
on the psychological level. 我们提倡的不是
We are not talking about a stress-free life, 无需奋斗 无需努力的
a life when we don't take out of ourselves, 无压生活
when we don't push ourselves,when we don't exert ourselves. 我们提倡的
What we are talking about 可持续增长是指
when we are talking about sustainable growth is that 我们努力奋斗 竭尽全力 给予自己一定压力
we take out of ourselves,we exert,we stress ourselves 然后通过充分的休整得以恢复
and we replenish through recovery just enough 这才是可持续
so that it is sustainable. 因为如果不恢复 那就无法持续
Because if we don't replenish,then it's not sustainable 会出现焦虑 抑郁 疲惫
and then we begin to experience anxiety,depression,burn-out, 等等情绪
and so on. 所以问问自己 我的生活需要简化什么
So ask yourself.Where do I in my life need to simplify? 我的生活还需要做些什么
Where do I in my life need to do more? 也就是说 该如何克服拖延心理
How can I,in other words,overcome procrastination? 回到我们朋友那
Going back to our friend. 因为可能有点太极端了
Because this may be a little bit too extreme. 全国有70% 超过70%的大学生
You know 70 percent,more than 70 percent of college students, 抱怨拖延心理
nationwide complain about procrastination. 不是别人拖延 而是他们自己拖延
Not others' procrastination- their own procrastination. 另外30%矢口否认
The other 30 percent are in denial.No. 超过70%
Over 70 percent. 拖延与不快乐
Now procrastination is associated with lower levels of happiness, 生理免疫系统脆弱
weakened physical immune system, 压力过大等等都有关联 可能会导致抑郁
higher levels of stress and could also lead to depression. 虽然关联程度不高
Not a very high correlation, 但是两者呈正相关
but there is a positive correlation between the two. 幸运的是 有许多关于拖延的研究
Fortunately though,there is a lot of research on procrastination 其中一项研究很有帮助
A research that can actually help. 这项研究是由加拿大卡尔顿大学
And the research is done at the University of Carleton in Canada, 拖延心理研究小组进行的
where they have an actual procrastination research group. 我浏览了...
And I went,I browsed them... 你可以访问他们的网站 做得很不错
You can go on their website- great website, 还有许多有价值的照片
and there are great pictures there. 其中一组照片
And one of the set of the pictures 是来自他们年度的讨论拖延心理的会议
is from their yearly conference on procrastination, 该会议意义重大
which is remarkable. 这些是会议的照片
So here are some photos from that very important conference. 所有人于第一天抵达
So on the first day they all arrived 进行了聚餐
and they got together for a meal. 聚餐后 他们又吃了一顿
And after they got together for meal,they had another a meal 因为几小时后有人又饿了
because they were hungry a few hours later. 第二天 他们结伴出游 四处走走
And then the following day they just hang out and walked around. 校园风景很美
It was a beautiful place after all. 然后 一起吃了点东西
And afterwards,they had some food together. 然后 一顿接一顿 他们又吃了几顿
And then,you know,food begets food so they ate some more. 到了会议最后一天
And at the end of the conference, 他们觉得完成不少任务
they really felt like they got,they accomplished a lot. 实践了他们倡导的内容
You know they practiced what they preached. 于是拍了一张全家福作为结尾
So they had a photo of all of them together right here. 事实上 他们对拖延
Actually they do fascinating work 进行了精彩的重要的研究
and very important work on procrastination. 以下是部分结果
So here are some of the results, 如何克服拖延
some of the important results for overcoming procrastination. 首先 最重要的一点 很简单 容易实践且有效
First,most important one,simple,easy to implement and it works 他们称之为"5分钟起步"
It's what they call "the 5 minute take-off". 他们发现所有拖延者都有一个共同点:
One of the things they found with,just about all procrastinator 他们对行动的要求有所误解
is that they have a misunderstanding of what it takes to act. 全世界的拖延者都以为 要有所行动
Procrastinators,the world over,think that in order to act, 必须先受到激励
they first need to be inspired. 我必须感受到共鸣 才能开始编写经济学10号课程的题库
I have to feel the vibes,before I start the EC 10 problem set. 我必须有所灵感
I really have to be inspired 才能下笔写文学艺术论文
before I write this paper for Lit and Arts. 但事实并不是这样
But you know what? That's not how it works. 并不是这样
That's not how it works. 第一步并不是改变态度
It's not about first changing our attitude,i.e. 即受到激励 然后行动
becoming inspired and then acting. 恰恰相反
It usually works the other way around. 要先开始行动
We first need to start acting,behavior, 行动会慢慢地影响我们的态度
that will then affect our attitude. 因为通常行动开始后 我们会有惯性
Because very often once we start,we are on a roll. 或者有时候
Or sometimes,a few times, 在90分钟冲刺中
during let's say the 90 minutes sprint, 我们需要重新5分钟起步
we have to restart the 5 minute. 我不知道你们是否留意到了
I don't know if you,if you've noticed this,but if you haven't, 如果还没有 我想跟大家分享一下
it's something that I really like to share with you. 现在我们应该互相非常了解了
By now,you know we know one another pretty well. 或者你们非常了解我
Or you know me pretty well. 如果你们不知道 我想你们应该知道
So if you don't know this,I think you should know this. 我非常非常热衷积极心理学
I am extremely,extremely passionate about positive psychology. 我喜欢积极心理学
I love positive psychology. 但有时候 我早上起床
But you know,sometimes when I get up in the morning, 写关于积极心理学的文章
and I write something about positive psychology 准备积极心理学讲座
or prepare a lecture on positive psychology 或者阅读积极心理学文章 有时候我完全不在状态
or read positive psychology,sometimes I don't feel like starting 这让我太太大吃一惊
You know,this is actually a very big surprise for my wife. 那时我们刚结婚几年
And it only came up just a couple of years into our marriage, 我告诉她
while I told her, "是的 有时候我都没心情起床"
"yeah,sometimes I really don't feel like getting up." 她说"这怎么可能
She said,"how's that possible? 你早上起床
I mean,you know you get up in the morning 打开电脑 开始工作"
and then you go to your computer,and you start to work on it." 是的 没错 因为我了解5分钟起步
Yes,exactly! Because I know the 5 minute take-off. 有时候在90分钟时间段里
And sometimes within a 90 minute session, 我不得不再做一次5分钟起步
I have to do another 5 minute take-off 因为我感到精力不支
because my energy levels are drained. 所以要么花时间休整
So either take time off to recover, 要么我只是有拖延情绪
or if I think that is just procrastination. 我说没事 就5分钟 坚持住就行
I say it's OK.For 5 minutes.Just push. 这5分钟往往会让产生一个向上的螺旋
And very often that 5 minutes start an upward spiral. 不是通过思想 不是通过心灵
Not through the mind.Not through the heart. 而是通过行动
Through action. 5分钟起步可能是克服拖延
The 5 minute take-off- probably the most useful technique 最有用的技巧了
for overcoming procrastination. 换句话说 就是放手去做
Just do it- in other words. 奖励自己 你们都懂得生意是一点一滴累积起来的
Reward yourself.You know businesses are built... 你能想象没有奖励的生意吗
can you imagine a business without a reward? 就像是自动回墨
Well,think about the self ink. 你在从事某业务 想要激励自己
You are in certain business.You want to motivate yourself. 那就奖励自己
So reward yourself. 好了 我要工作3小时
OK,I'm going to do three hours of work now, 然后在食堂吃一顿3小时大餐
and then allow myself a three hour meal 作为奖励
in the dining hall as a reward. 或者我这周五要用功
Or I'm going to really work hard on Friday 这样周六就能出去玩了
so that Saturday I can go out. 没问题 我们做其他事也这样
That's OK.You know,we do it in any other place. 但不行
But no again, 我得受到激励 才能制作出题库
we say no I need to be inspired for this problem set. 也许有时候是
Yes,sometimes. 但有时候我们并没有得到激励
But sometimes we are not that inspired. 奖励当然也很重要
And rewards are certainly legit and important. 公布出去 破釜沉舟
Go public.Throw your knapsack over the wall. 告诉大家你的目标
Tell people what you are going to achieve. 我在1995年就是这么做的
This is exactly what I did in 1995 我第一次决定教授心理学专题讨论会
when I first decided to teach workshops in psychology. 我当时在新加坡工作
I was working in Singapore at that time. 我打电话给我的领导 Hugh Hang先生
I called up my boss,Mr.Hugh Hang. 我告诉他"Hugh 我想开一次专题讨论会
And I said to him,"Hugh,I want to teach workshop. 为时两天的讨论会 一天关于领导力
Or two day workshops- one on leadership, 另一天关于追求卓越与成功"
one on the pursuit on excellence and success." 他说"太好了
And he said,"that's great. 这会对员工帮助很大
I think it will really help the employees. 你想什么时候进行?"
When do you want to do it by?" 我说"7月1日" 当时是1995年1月
I said,"July 1." This was January of 1995. 他说"好的"挂上了电话 我是打电话说的
And he said,"fine." Put down the phone,I called in... 我当时在这里 是打电话给他的
I was here at the time.I called him up. 我一放下电话 就脱口而出"天啊
And as soon as I put down the phone,I said,"Oh.Shoot. 我干了什么?"我做过最正确的事
What have I just done?" One of the best things that I ever did. 因为我公布了目标
Because I went public with it. 破釜沉舟
I threw my knapsack over the wall. 不得不着手开工 无论我是否喜欢
And I had to start working,whether I liked it or not. 这帮助我克服了拖延
And that helped me overcome procrastination. 因为我知道自己想开设专题讨论会
Because I knew that I wanted to teach at some point. 一旦对外公布
But when I went public with it, 某种意义上 我就被迫去做了
in a sense,it "forced" me to do it. 后来我开设了讨论会
And I gave the workshop. 虽然不是1995年7月最棒的专题讨论会 但我办到了
It wasn't the best workshop in July of 1995,but I did it. 我准备得很努力 团队方法
And I worked extremely hard toward it.The team approach. 比如 坚持训练课程最好的方法之一
The best predictor,for example of maintaining an exercise regime 就是和其他人一起进行
is doing it with other people. 可能不是每个人都适用
Now this is not right of everyone. 有些人
Some people- 喜欢一个人进行训练
exercise is something that they want to do by themselves, 一个人听着随身听 或者独自在家进行
just with their Discman or just by themselves at home. 完全没问题 但是对大多数人来说
And that's OK.However, 与别人一起进行会有所帮助
for most people,doing it with other people actually helps. 书面写下也很有用...等于建立了契约
It also helps to write down- this is a commitment. 把目标写下来 分阶段进行
Write down goals.Divide and conquer. 一一击破
Break down the achievement. 还记得Langer的研究吗 把目标写下来
Remember Langer's research? Write these things down. 列一张表 对多数人来说很有用
Make a list.It actually helps most people. 最后一点 允许自己娱乐消遣
And finally,permission to recreate. 准许自己为人
What that means is give yourself permission to be human; 有时候拖延一下也未尝不可
give yourself permission to procrastinate at times as well; 允许自己休整
give yourself permission to recover. 你不是机器 我们不是机器
You are not a machine; we are not machines. 我们需要了解能力的范畴
We need to understand the constraint of you of nature. 否则就是违背自然
Because if we don't understand it,if we don't respect nature, 自然就会报复我们
nature is not going to respect us, 让我们付出代价 效率降低
and we are going to pay a price,in terms of our productivity, 失去创造力与幸福感 也就是我们终极货币
our creativity as well as our happiness- the ultimate currency. 我给大家放一段视频
I want to show you a quick excerpt 是我最喜欢的Ellen DeGeneres
by my favorite,Ellen DeGeneres. 这是一期有关拖延的节目的结尾部分
And this is the end,the end of her show on procrastination, 强烈推荐大家看看
which I highly,highly recommend you. 任意音像店里都能找到
You can find it in any of the video stores around here. 这期节目时长一小时 主题是拖延
So here she is- the end of her show 这是结尾部分
after she's talked about procrastination for over an hour. 唯一的
The one and only. Ellen DeGeneres《此时此地》
Ellen DeGeneres "Here and Now": 我们想尽一切办法把事情挤在一起做
We are doing all these things to squeeze things together 以节省时间
so we can save time. 我不知道你们怎么样 但我时间不够了
And I don't know about you but I don't have anymore time. 我时间越来越少了
I have less time. 假设我们能省出一堆时间
But let's just say we could save up a whole chunk of time 空闲了出来
and set it aside. 然后拿它干什么呢
You know what we'd do with it? 什么也不做
Nothing.Nothing at all. 什么也不做 意义不正是如此吗
Isn't that the point to be able to do nothing at all? 但以后的一堆时间是无法保证的
But we're not guaranteed that later on chunk of time. 我们能控制的只有此时此地
All we have is HERE AND NOW 所以拖延的感觉才这么好
and that's why procrastination feels so right! 拖延不是问题
Procrastination is not the problem. 是解决方法 是全世界共同的表达
It is the solution.It is the universe's way of saying "停下 慢点 你太快了 听听音乐
"Stop.Slow down.You move too fast.Listen to the music. 什么 听音乐
Whoa whoa,listen to the music (杜比兄弟《听音乐》)
(lyrics of a song by Doobie Brothers "Listen to the Music")." 我的意思是 如果你今晚离开这时
What im trying to say is if you leave here tonight 不记得我说的任何话
and you don't remember anything else that I've said, 只要记住这句就行:现在就拖延
leave here and remember this: PROCRASTINATE NOW. 别拖延拖延 谢谢"
DON'T PUT IT OFF.Thank you." 好了 我教的所有课程中
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:OK.Out of everything that I teach, 这节课这一主题对我来说意义最深远
this lecture this topic is the most personally meaningful to me. 因为从许多方面 我的转变 从完美主义到...
Because in many ways,my shift,my journey from perfectionism- 这一转变仍在进行
and it's an on-going journey, 此时此刻正在发生
a journey that goes on right now as we speak- 从完美主义转变成追求卓越
my journey from perfectionism to the pursuit of excellence 这一转变与我的快乐历程
is the most intimately linked 紧密相连
with my journey toward becoming happier. 我想给大家讲讲
So I want to share with you some personal things 我的一些个人经历
that I've been through. 有些已经写在书里了
Some of them are in my book. 我想再扩展一下 不止壁球的故事
But I want to expand this- the story beyond squash. 我11岁开始打壁球
So I started playing squash at the age of 11, 放弃成为篮球明星
which was after giving up an illustrious, 这一前途光明 充满激情的事业
passionate career as a basketball star. 那时
It was about that time 我意识到NBA的梦想
when I realized that NBA was not going to be a... 无法实现了
was not going to happen for me. 我转而开始打壁球
I started playing squash 几乎每天都打
and almost immediately started playing every day. 当时我的生活围绕着壁球转
My days revolved; my life at that time revolved around squash. 每天早上5点起床 出门跑步
I would wake up at 5 am in the morning and go for a run. 回到家 吃早餐 上学
Would come home.Have my food.Go to school. 放学后 我会去打壁球
Right after school- it was next to the squash, 学校就在壁球场附近 距离不远
not far from the squash court,I would go to the squash court, 与教练一起练习 在健身房锻炼 打比赛
play with my coach,work out in the gym,play games. 一直到傍晚
And then,late afternoon, 才回家做作业 然后睡觉
I would go home,do my homework and then go to sleep. 好几年一直如此
For years,this was my pattern. 那段时间很苦 很艰难 尤其是间歇训练
It was difficult.It was tough,especially the interval training- 与教练一起锻炼
work out with my coach. 但是 这些训练强度与我心理上遇到的问题比
However,it was nothing- the toughness was nothing compared 根本不算什么
to the emotional difficulties at the time. 我不断受到压力
I was constantly,constantly with almost no recovery,no reprieve 而且几乎没有休整
I was constantly stressed. 我总觉得胃里有个结
There was always a knot that I felt in my stomach. 感觉很真实 就好像有个球在那里
It was real,as if there was a ball here. 每次训练情况不好
The knot was especially pronounced, 与我给自己设定的标准产生距离时
especially difficult after a poor performance in practice 这个结尤其明显 尤其难受
when it didn't match to the standards that I had for myself. 而距离几乎一直存在
And it was almost never matched. 比赛期间情况尤为严重
The knot was at its severest during tournaments. 经常 我闯入了一场重要比赛的决赛
Very often,I would get to a final of an important tournament 突然发挥失常 输了决赛
and choke and lose the final, 哪怕理论上能赢的比赛都输了
even at times when I was supposed to win- on paper at least. 那个结没有消失
That knot didn't go away. 就算消失 也只是很短的一段时间
When it went away,it was only for very short periods of time. 但我相信它会消失的
But I knew that the knot would go away. 当时有一个信念 一个愿望
And I was sustained by the belief,by the vision, 一个目标一直支撑着我
by my personal mission at the time of winning 要赢得以色列全国锦标赛
the Israeli National Championships. 我对自己说
I said to myself, "如果我赢了 我就会快乐 就会平静
"if I win this,then I'll be happy; then I'll be calm. 一切付出都是值得的"
And it's all going to be worth it." 为什么 因为只有付出 才有收获
Why? Because no pain,no gain. 1986年 我闯入了以色列全国锦标赛决赛
In 1986,I reached the final of Israeli National Championships 但我输了
and I lost. 我身心交瘁
I was devastated.I was devastated, 虽然我是有史以来最年轻的决赛选手
even though I was the youngest player to ever reach the final, 虽然我击败了排名高于我的选手
even though I'd beaten players higher than me on the rankings. 我一蹶不振好几个月
I was devastated for months. 不过最终 我还是挺过来了 只有付出 才有收获
But still,I went on- no pain,no gain. 我继续刻苦训练
And I continued to train and work hard. 1987年 我在决赛中又碰到了同一个对手 这次我赢了
In 1987,I met the same player in the final and this time I won. 我欣喜若狂 从未如此快乐过
I was ecstatic,joyous,happier than I ever remember myself being 那一刻 我对自己说"付出终有回报
And at that moment,I said to myself,"it all paid off. 都是值得的
It was all worth it. 我会变得快乐"
Because now I was ready to be happy." 我跟亲朋好友外出庆祝
I went out with my friends and family,and we celebrated. 庆祝会后4小时 我回到家
And about 4 hours later after the celebration,I went back home. 我回到家 睡觉前
I went back home,and wanted to,before going to sleep, 想再回味一下
just for one last time savor,enjoy that feeling of joy, 胜利的喜悦与快乐
of ecstasy,of pure bliss that I earned. 我坐在床上 突然毫无预警地
And I sat down on my bed and I suddenly,without any warning, 完全相同的感觉 完全相同的情感
the exact same feeling,the exact same emotion, 那个结又回来了
the exact same knot returned. 我放声大哭 不是4小时前
And I started to cry- not the same tears of joy 喜极而泣的泪水 而且痛苦无助的泪水
that I cried 4 hours earlier,but tears of pain and helplessness. 那个结又回来了
The knot returned. 我想"也许这是高潮后的失落"
And I thought,"well,maybe it's the high follow... 我指望结会再消失
It's the low following high." And I hoped it would go away. 但它没有
But it didn't go away. 几周后
And a few weeks later, 我意识到它究竟是什么 这一次我彻底搞清楚了
I realized what it was and this time I really nailed it. 我明白了
I understood. 我要成为世界冠军才能真正快乐
I would have to be the world champion to really be happy. 高中毕业后
I graduated from high school. 离我入伍服役还有2年空余时间
I had two years before I had to enlist in the military. 我去了英格兰
And I took off to England. 住在伦敦
In England,I lived in London 加入了位于Ealing大道的Stripes壁球俱乐部
and joined Stripes which was the squash club in Ealing Broadway, 当时世界冠军Jansher Khan常常在那训练
where Jansher Khan,world champion at the time used to train. 因为我对自己说"这是我的目标"
Because I said,"this is my goal; this is my objective." 我每天都去俱乐部
And I would come in every single day 看Jansher Khan训练 模仿他
and watch Jansher Khan and imitate him. 无论他做什么 我都照做
Whatever he did,I would do. 他每天早上跑7英里 我也每天早上跑7英里
So he ran 7 miles each morning; I would ran 7 miles each morning. 他去壁球场 去健身房锻炼
He would go to the court,work out in the gym; 我都照做
I did exactly what he did. 他与其他选手进行无数场比赛
He played numerous games with other players; 我也与其他选手进行无数场比赛
I would play numerous games with other players. 他有训练搭档
And he had training partners. 当时我水平还不够成为他的训练搭档
And I wasn't good enough at that time to be his training partner, 所以只是偶尔去一次
so I would just hang out there and once in a while, 有时候 只有我们两人时 他会说
once in a while when there was no one around,he would say, "来吧 Tal 我们对打看看" 于是我们会打一会儿
"come,Tal,let's play a little bit." And we would play. 每次与他比赛后 我都会从头再来
And I went back to the drawing board after each game with him. 更努力的打球 更努力的练习
And I would play harder and train harder. 因为要像他那样
Just what he did- because to be like him, 成为世界冠军 我就必须像他一样训练
to be the world champion,I would have to train like him. 我训练越来越刻苦 表现也越来越好
And I trained harder and harder.And I got better and better. 六个月后
And after about six months, 我的水平能够成为他的训练搭档了
I became good enough to be one of his training partners. 一年后 我成为了他的常规搭档
And after a year,I became his regular training partner. 我跟着他去了世界各地
I would travel with him around the world. 只要他有比赛 我们都会进行训练
Wherever he would play tournaments,we would train before. 但是 伤痛开始出现 为什么
However,injuries began to creep in.Why? 因为Jansher从三岁就开始锻炼
Because Jansher had built up from,literally the age of three, 他的耐力体格 都是日积月累锻炼出来的
he built up his stamina,his fitness; 而我 要么全有要么全无
and for me,it was all or nothing. 要么进行业余训练 要么完全不训练
Either I trained like an amateur or don't train at all, 要么像世界冠军一样训练
or I trained like the world champion. 我的身体无法承受 开始出现伤痛
And my body couldn't handle it.And I started injuries. 一开始 只是踝关节小伤 所以我休息了两天
Initially,mild injuries- ankle.So I took two days off. 如果膝盖有伤
Or my knee started hurting a little bit- 那就休息三四天
you know,three,four days off. 恢复训练以后会有一点不舒服 不过不严重
Back was a bit uncomfortable.Nothing serious. 我会继续训练 要么全有要么全无
I would go back to training.All or nothing. 要么不训练 要么像世界冠军一样训练
Either I don't train at all or I train like the world champion. 因为我想成为他那样
Cause I want to be like him. 就这样坚持了4年 伤痛时有出现
And I continue doing that for 4 years.Injuries on and off. 越来越严重 直到我20 21岁时
Getting more and more severe,until the age of 20.21- 医生告诉我"你面临一个选择
the doctor told me,"you have a choice. 你可以继续训练 打职业壁球赛
You can continue training and playing professional squash, 但你的背部会非常危险
but then you are risking your back 可能很快就需要动手术
and you probably need to be operated on very soon. 要么就放弃职业壁球"
Or you can give up professional squash." 怀着沉重的心情 我放弃了职业壁球
with an extremely heavy heart,I gave up professional squash. 放弃了我的梦想 申请入学 来到了这里
I gave up my dream,applied to college,and came here. 同样的模式又发生了
Here,the exact same pattern continued- 只不过以前是壁球
only before it was squash; 现在学术成了我生活的中心
now it was academics that became the central part of my life. 开学才一周 那个结又回来了
The knot returned,very shortly after freshman week. 因为每一篇论文我都力求完美
Because every paper had to be perfect. 书上每一个词都要阅读并总结
Every word had to be read and summarized. 每一次作业都要毫无偏差地完成
Every assignment had to be executed immaculately. 要么全有 要么全无 我不快乐
All or nothing.And I was unhappy. 在我大二时的某一天
And it was on one day during my sophomore year. 当时我23岁 我对自己说
I was a 23 year old sophomore,where I said to myself, "够了 我身在名校
"enough.Enough.Here I am,in such a wonderful place, 有这么多出色的同学 优秀的导师
with such wonderful students,such wonderful teachers. 应该感到荣幸 但我一点也不快乐"
Such a privilege.And I am so unhappy. 我觉得这不是外部问题
I don't think it is something that is external. 我必须更好地了解自己
I must understand myself better. 于是
And it was at that point that 我转而研究哲学与心理学
I decided to switch my concentration to philosophy and psychology 希望了解快乐生活的意义
wanting to understand the meaning of a happy life, 了解如何才能更快乐
wanting to understand how I could become happier 为什么我不快乐
and why I was not. 很快我意识到
And it was very quickly that I realized, 我发现自己从事...
that I understood that I was engaged, 或者说遭受到某种普遍
or suffering from something that is so common, 且错误的观念折磨
so pervasive and so misunderstood. 完美主义
Perfectionism. 这就是今天
This is what I want to talk about today, 及下节课的主题
and what I want to talk about in the next lecture. 完美主义的概念
This notion of perfectionism 以及对完美主义的研究
and what the research has to say about it. 人无完人
Now there is no perfectionist, 没有人会处于糟糕的极端
there is no one person who is on this extreme, 也没有人会处于卓越的极端
nor there is a person who's on the excellence extreme 这点我等会儿会细讲
which I will depict later. 关键是 如何变得更快乐
The key is how do I become happier 随着我渐渐脱离完美主义 我变得更快乐了
and I become happier by being less and less perfectionistic. 完美主义并不是说要放弃志向
Perfectionism is not about giving up ambition. 我有志向
I'm as ambitious, 甚至可能比16或23岁时志向更远大
or possibly more ambitious than I was at age of 16 or 23. 而是说对人生历程
It's about having a different approach 对走出的每一步 尤其是对失败
toward the journey of our life, 采取一种不同的方法与态度
toward each step of the way- specifically,toward failure. 所以我要谈的第一点
So what I'm going to talk about is first of all, 先定义以便理解
define it so that we understand it. 因为它常常被误解
Because it is misunderstood. 我会谈谈完美主义的特征
I'm going to talk about characteristics. 我们下节课才会讲
We are going to get to that next time only. 特征...成为完美主义者代表了什么?
The characteristics- what it means to be a perfectionist? 然后我还会讲讲后果
Then I'm going to talk about the consequences. 以及如何保持成功与快乐的平衡
And then,how it's possible to be both successful and happy. 我们在目标设定课上问的问题
Again,the question we ask in goal setting lecture, 这一问题我们在课堂上会经常重复
the question that essentially we are asking throughout the class- 不是为了放弃成功
it's not about giving up success; 放弃日常生活中的金钱
it's not about giving up the conventional currency.But 而是更好地享受我们的幸福
it's about also enjoying the ultimate currency more importantly. 因为它是终极货币
Because it is the ultimate currency. 然后我们理解完美主义的源头是什么
Then we understand what is the source of perfection; 它来自哪里
where does it come. 因为如果我们了解了它是如何产生的
Because if we understand where it comes from, 才更有可能克服它
we are more likely to be able to overcome it. 然后 最重要的是 如何克服
And then,most importantly,how do we overcome it? 如何帮助别人克服完美主义
And how do we help other people overcome perfectionism? 不是让他们放弃志向 或者停止努力工作
And again,not giving up their ambition,not giving up hard work, 也不是消除失败时的痛苦 这是不可避免的
not giving up pain of failure- because that's inevitable. 而是获得一种更理性 更有益
But simply have a more rational,a more helpful, 更可控的处理失败的方法
a more empowering approach toward failure. 好了 我们开始前 我需要一名志愿者
OK.So let's get to work.I need a volunteer. 你们举手前 注意我的要求
I need a volunteer,but before you put your hand up, 我要一个很特别的志愿者
it's a very special kind of volunteer. 我需要一个很棒的艺术家
I need a volunteer who is a very good artist, 绘画非常出色
a volunteer who can draw really well. 不要有压力 好吗 要一个画画很棒
No pressure here,right? A volunteer who can draw really well 且愿意上来展示的志愿者
and who will actually come here and demonstrate. 要上台来需要一定勇气
Now remember it takes courage to come up to the stage 有勇气并不代表不害怕
but courage is not about not having fear; 而是害怕但仍勇往直前
it's about having fear and going ahead anyway. 有人自愿吗 有一个志愿者
So do I have a volunteer? I have a volunteer. 你上来好吗
Won't you come up? (Applause) 你好 怎么称呼 Vincent
OK.Hi.What's your name? Vincent. 你是VS专业的吗
Are you a VS concentrator? (Inaudible) 别告诉我你是学经济的 好的
Don't tell me you are an economics.OK. 那你是什么专业的?生物 很好
What are you? Biology.OK.Good.(Laugh) All right. 生物学也要画许多图表
So biology- you have to draw many diagrams. 所以我...
That's why I was... 经济学也得画图标吧
Well in Ec you also have to draw diagrams I guess. 所以也没关系
So it would've been fine,too. 好了 准备好了吗
All right.Are you ready for this? 最后一次机会让你回到位子上
You still have the opportunity to going sit down. 你确定要...
You are sure you want to... - 但我想战胜恐惧 - 好的 很好
(Vincent: But I want to conquer my fear.) All right! Yes,good. 好了 准备好了吗 Vincent?你确定 好
All right.Are you ready for this,Vincent? You sure? All right. 以下是我要你做的
Here's what I want you to do now. 我不知道是不是真的想这样对你
I don't know if I want to do this to you though,you know. 但是我也只能这样了
All right,but I am going to do it to you anyway. 请在黑板的这边画...
I want you to draw here on this part of the board. 请画...
I want you to draw... 准备好了吗 你确定?好的
Are you ready for this? You sure? OK. 请画一个圆
I want you to draw a circle. 慢慢来 不急
Take your time.Take your time.No hurry. 可以擦了重画
You can also erase and put back. 拿出你的看家本事
But I want to you draw- give your best shot here- 画一个圆
I want you to draw a circle. 我们还有半小时时间 不急
We have half an hour.No hurry. 我们边冥想边等你
The meantime we'll meditate.(Laugh) Yeah. 我不是真的说半小时
I didn't mean it literally half an hour, 不过...好的 就当是练习时间
but...OK.(Laugh) Use it as a time-in.That's all. 一个圆 Vincent 画得漂亮
A circle! Vincent,well done! Ooh hoo! (Applause) 还没完呢
You are not done yet. 等等
Hey hey! Woah woah woah woah. 先别急着走
Don't run away on me now. 好的 我在这画一条线
OK.So I'm putting a line here. 这边要画其他东西
What I'd like you to do here is draw something else. 准备好了吗 请画另一个圆
So you are ready for it? I would like you to draw another circle, 不过这次画的时候
but this time as you drew it, 当作你三岁时候画的样子
as you think you drew it when you were 3 years old. 3岁 慢慢来
3 years old.Again,take your time. 想象一下
Metaphorically speaking, 你三岁时候
take your time and draw a circle as you think you drew it 画的圆是什么样子的
when you were 3 years old. 好的
All right.Yeah. 于是你父母说"梵高重现人间"
And that's when his parents said,"Van Gogh was reborn." 能画一个你三岁时候画的圆吗
Can you draw it as you drew it when you were 3 years old,please? 我知道在座各位才华横溢
(Laugh) I know there are many talented people here, 但我们想要些真实...很好
but we want some real...OK.All right. 不过还是一位三岁神童 好的
Still,very talented 3 years old.OK.All right. 很好 现在请再帮我一个忙
Good! Good! (Laugh) Now I want you to do one more thing. 再画一个圆
I want you to draw here another circle,this time as you drew, 这次画的时候
or you think you drew, 把你当成一岁的孩子
or you tried to draw when you were 1 year old.OK. 一岁神童啊 不过是一岁孩子了
Still a very talented 1 year old,but a 1 year old nevertheless. 很好 现在Vincent 我...
Good.All right.Now Vincent,I... 当老师有一件是我不喜欢做
The one thing that I really don't like doing teaching- 我喜欢教书
I love to teach, 但有一件事我不喜欢 就是打分
but the one thing that I really don't like doing- is grading. 我讨厌打分
I hate grading. 但作为老师 不得不做
But you know,as a teacher,you have to do it. 必须打分
You have to do it. 所以我要给你的画打分了
So I'm going to have to grade you. - 抱歉 - 没关系
I'm sorry.(Vincent: It's OK.) I'm sorry. 我看着这样东西 我看到的是
I look at this entity,and what I see is, 我看到的是 真的是一个圆
what I see is,is a circle actually! 如果我在中间画一条线
You know if I put a line in the middle, 差不多都是等距的
you know more or less that equidistance from that point, 如果我在这儿画一个点...真的很不错
if I put a point here- it's actually very good! 非常好 Vincent 画得好 我真为你骄傲
Very good,Vincent!Well done! I'm proud of you. 干得好 你及格了 没错
Well done! You passed.Yes,exactly! (Applause) 但是我往这看
But you know,I can't help but looking beyond,and I get here. 我想找个合适的词来形容
And you know,I am trying to find the right word here 哪个词?"灾难"也许?
and what would the right word be? Disaster,maybe? Vincent 拜托 这不是圆
I mean,Vincent,please! This is not a circle. 还有这个?抱歉 抱歉
And this? I'm sorry.I'm sorry.I told... 我说了 老师不好当
It's tough being a teacher.You know it's... 不过我想问你个问题 Vincent
But I have a question for you,Vincent. 非常重要的问题
I have an important question for you. 如果没有经过成千上万给失败的圆
Could you have gotten to drawing a real circle 你能画出这个真正的圆吗
without having drawn hundreds and thousands of failed circles? 换句话说 没有这两步 你能达到这步吗
In other words,could you have gotten here without being here? 当然不能 成功没有捷径
Absolutely not.There is no other way to succeed. 非常感谢 Vincent
Thank you very much,Vincent.(Applause) 学会失败 从失败中学习 这是唯一的途径
Learn to fail or fail to learn- there is no other way. 我是一名心理学家 你们知道心理学家干什么吗
You know I'm a psychologist and you know what a psychologist do? 心理学家观察人
Psychologists watch people. 你们每次进教室我都会观察
And I watch you every time you come to class. 非常仔细地观察
And I watch you very very closely. 知道我看到了什么吗
And you know what I see? 这需要极高的洞察力 经验及智慧
Again,this takes a lot of insight,experience,wisdom, 知道每次你们进教室 我看到了什么吗
but you know what I see every time when you come into the class? 我看到你们所有人走路非常优雅
That you all are very good walkers. 了不起
Terrific. 你们走进教室
You know in fact what you do is you come in 抬起左腿
and you lift you left leg and then you just, 踝关节微微往上 然后优雅地
your ankle slightly is moved up and very gracefully- 慢慢放下 抬起后脚的脚跟
as you put it down,you lift your back heel. 走得非常优美 非常优雅
You did it so beautifully.So elegantly. 还装作没有注意到
And you know what? You pretend as you are not even noticing it. 一边走一边与朋友交谈
So the same time,you are talking to a friend. 有些人还同时嚼口香糖
Some of you are even chewing gum at the same time, 连爱因斯坦都办不到
just more than Einstein could do. 然后你们又抬起后腿 如此优雅
And then you lift up your back leg and again,so gracefully, 稍稍弯曲膝盖 这一动作
just you know,you bend your knee slightly.This action. 同时挥动手臂 太美了
And you move your arm at the same time.It's a beauty. 然后微微扭动臀部
And then you just swing your hips slightly. 像这样
You know just this action. 你们有没有考虑过转行当模特?
Have you considered a career of modeling? 我是说真的 漂亮 然后继续走
I mean really! Nice! And you put here. 边走边说话 微笑
Then you are talking.You are smiling. 假装这一系列动作都是信手拈来
And you pretend as if there's no effort involved. 漂亮 你们值得表扬
Well done! Yes! You deserve it! Absolutely! 但是问题来了 如果没有成千上万次的摔倒
But here is the question: could you have gotten to this stage, 你们能走到这里
to being such good walkers 走得如此优雅吗
without having fallen hundreds and thousands of times? 连Vincent都不行
Not even Vincent could have reached that stage without it. 这是不可能的 学会失败 从失败中学习
It's not possible.Learn to fail or fail to learn. 我们小时候都知道
And as kids,we know it. 小时候
And you know, 我们摔倒了 疼的话可能会哭鼻子
we fall down and maybe we cry a little bit if it hurts, 但是马上又站起来了
but we get up again. 摔倒了 还会笑
We fall down.And we laugh. 来看个例子 有人在学走路
In fact,let's see an example.Someone is learning how to walk. [视频]
[Video] 去妈妈那
Man: Go get mommy. 去她那儿 去找妈妈
Go get her.Go get mommy. 太棒了
Woman: Good job! Good job! Sophie
Man: Hey Sophie! 能走回爸爸那儿吗 哎呀
Woman: Can you walk back to daddy? Oops. 把手给我
Give me your hand. 慢点 慢慢来
Man: Slow down.Slow down. 好紧张
Woman: (Laugh) Yay! So hyper. 去妈妈那儿 找妈妈去
Man: Go get mommy.Go get mommy. 找妈妈去 找妈妈去
Go get mommy.Go get her. 慢慢来 宝贝 慢慢来 好姑娘
Man: Take your time,baby! Take your time,baby girl! 慢点
Mommy: Slow down. 会走路了 激动吗
Are you excited that you can walk? 学习的喜悦
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:The joy of learning.The joy of... 这种喜悦上哪儿去了 去哪儿了
Where is it? Where is it? Where does it go? 它消失了 因为我们到了一定年纪
Well it goes away because we come to a certain age 开始意识到别人在看我们
when we begin to understand other people are watching us, 开始产生种种想法
and then the image kicks in. "我不要试 万一摔倒怎么办"
"I'm not going to try,because what if I fall?" 或者"我不要约她出去 万一她拒绝怎么办"
Or "I'm not going to ask her out,because what if she says no?" "哦 不不 我不要演这出戏
"Oh no no no.I'm not going to try for this play, 万一没人看懂怎么办"
because hardly anyone gets that." "哦 我不要分享经历
"Oh I'm not going to share, 万一有人不喜欢怎么办"
because what if they don't like what I have to say." 又或者"大家都这么聪明 我还不献丑了"
Or "everyone is so smart.I'm not going to speak up." 我们开始逃避而不是应对
And we avoid instead of coping. 这会影响我们的自尊 信心 乐观精神
And that affects our self esteem,our confidence,our resilience, 长期的快乐指数
our happiness levels in the long term. 约会时一切必须很完美
Or we go on a date.And everything has to be so perfect. 非常完美
So perfect. 忘了我们第一次学吃饭是什么样子
Forgetting how we learn how to eat in the first place. 学习失败 从失败中学习
Learn to fail or fail to learn. 这不是第一次约会的实在建议
This is not actually concrete recommendation for your first date. 恐怕行不通
I don't think it will work. 但记得我们是如何学习的
But remember,remember how we learnt. 别无他法 成长没有捷径 学习也没有捷径
There is no other way.No other way to grow.No other way to learn. 乐观 快乐 成功更没有捷径
No other way to become more resilient,happier,more successful. 我以前说过这个吗 这是我的私人祷文
Have I said this before? This is my personal mantra 我常常一遍又一遍对自己诵读
that I repeat to myself over and over again, 尤其是遇到失败
especially after failures,especially before doing things 或者需要克服恐惧
when I'm afraid to do it,when I said 出现"也许我不该做"这类想法时
"well,maybe I shouldn't do." 因为万一...万一什么?
Because what happens if...? Well,what happens if? 万一最坏的情况发生了会怎么样:我学到了
what happens if is the worst case scenario: I learn. 最坏的情况 很伤心
Worst case scenario: it hurts. 但我会复原
But I'll bounce back up again. Rina事件后我也恢复了
You know I bounced back after Rina. 我能应付任何事
I can handle anything. 汉字"危机"
"Wei Ji",the Chinese character for crisis, 由两部分组成:第一部分指危险
has two parts: the first part is danger- 是上面那个字
this is the top character; 下面那个字代表机遇
the bottom character,opportunity. 有失败的危险
There is danger of failing. 但有危险的地方
And wherever there is a crisis, 就能学习 成长
,to learn and grow. Elbert Hubbard说过"一个人能犯的最大错误
Elbert Hubbard: "The greatest mistake a man can make 就是害怕犯错"
is to be afraid of making one." 我想给大家举个例子 有一个人犯过错
I want to show you an example of a person who had made mistakes, 失败了一次又一次
who failed time and time and again. 我甚至想给他授予
In fact,I was thinking of labeling that person 失败大王称号
or giving him the position of ultimate failure. 原因如下
And here is why. 22岁时 刚找到新工作 就失业了
At the age of 22,already- just started a new job,lost it. 不是辞职 是失业
Didn't leave- he lost it. 23岁时 他决定投身政治
At the age of 23,decided to go into politics 因为其他工作他都不在行
because he wasn't doing well in other jobs. 但是也没有成功
But didn't make it there either. 于是继续回去经商 又没有成功
And then he went back to business,didn't make it there. 27岁时 压力太大
At the age of 27,it was just too much for him. 他崩溃了
Just too much- and he collapsed. 精神崩溃
Had a nervous breakdown. 但又重新站起来了
But then got up again after falling. 7年后 他34岁时
And at the age of 34,7 years after his nervous breakdown, 竞选国会议员 名落孙山
he ran for congress- wasn't even close. 没有成功
Didn't make it. 39岁时 他还没有学乖
At the age of 39,hasn't learned the lesson yet. 又一次竞选议员失败
And he was defeated again for congress. 他说"让我试试更高层的"
And then he said,"let me go try higher." 46岁时 真失败啊 还没学乖
At the age of 46,what a loser! Doesn't learn,does he? OK. 没关系 学会失败 从失败中学习
Yeah.It's OK.Learn to fail.Fail to learn. 你都46岁了 适可而止吧
But I mean you are 46 years old,c'mon! Give it up already. 到了47岁 他试图竞选副总统
At the age of 47,he tried to be nominated for the Vice President 还没学乖 又失败了
Didn't learn.Didn't make it. 到了50岁 他试图竞选参议员
So at the age of 50,he tried again for Senate. 他几乎想放弃了 但最终没有
And then he almost gave up.But he didn't. 到了51岁
And at the age of 51, 他成了美国第16任总统
he became the 16th President of the United States. 大概是这个国家历史上最有影响力总统
Arguably the most important President this country has ever had. 他谈起这段经历时说
And through it all and he talks about it, "失败让人痛苦"当然 他的确有成功过
"it was difficult to fail."Of course he had victories. 我简化了他的生平 失败让人痛苦
You know I simplified the process.It was difficult to fail. 他不享受失败 但还是挺过来了
He did not enjoy failing.But he persisted it. 因为和历史上其他成功者一样
Because he understood just like every other successful person 他懂得
throughout history has understood and understands: 学习别无他法 成长别无他法
there is no other way to learn; there is no way to grow. 甘地 他自传的副标题是
Mohandas Gandhi,the subtitle of his book is "我的对于真理的实践经历"
"My Experiments with Truth". 他谈到了经历 尝试与失败
He talks about experiments,trying and failing, 尝试 失败与成功
trying and failing and succeeding, 再次失败 再次尝试
and failing again,and trying again. 你们可能听说过他在南非的故事
Those of you who know his story in South Africa- 他在南非进行的事业与之后在印度的非常相似
he tried exactly or very similar to what he later tried in India. 在南非 他经历了惨痛的失败
In South Africa,he failed miserably. 但到了印度重新尝试
But then he moved over to India and tried there. 经过无数次的失败
And there after many failures, 成功把祖国领向了独立
he succeeded in bringing independence to his country. 他比其他人更懂得失败的重要性
More than anyone understands the importance of failure. 不涵盖自由犯错的自由
"Freedom is not worth having 是不值得拥有的
if it does not connote freedom to err." 他指的自由犯错
And when he talks about "freedom to err", 是指国家层面上的
he means it on the national level: 人民能自主自由
being self-determined,free people. 同时也是个人层面上的
He also means it on the individual level. 我最喜欢的作者乔治艾略特
My favorite author,my favorite writer is George Eliot. 她原名玛丽安娜艾凡斯 后来改为乔治艾略特
Her name was Mary Anne Evans,changed to George Eliot, 因为在当时
because at the time,when she published, 19世纪中晚期
mid 19th to late 19th century, 妇女很难出版
it was very difficult for a woman to be published. 乔治艾略特说过
George Eliot had this to say: "推动世界前进的重任
"The important work of moving the world forward 并不是由完人来进行的"或完美女子
does not wait to be done by perfect men." 读她的文字你会发现
Or women.If you read her texts, 是我读过的最接近完美的
it is the closest to perfection as I've ever encountered, 无论是《米德尔马契》还是《丹尼尔 德龙达》
whether it's Middle March or Daniel Deronda, 是我最喜欢的书
which is my favorite book. 放手去做 放手行动 准备失败
Just do it.Just act.Be prepared to fail. 我给大家举个例子
I want to show you an example. 录像的这位主角懂得自己的不完美
Once again,a video of a person who understands his imperfections 允许自己失败
and yet gives himself the permission to fail. 一位电视主持人
Here he is.A TV presenter. [周六夜现场]
[Saturday Night Live] 没错
Bennett Brauer:That's right. Bennett Brauer又有话要说了
Bennett Brauer here with another commentary. 没想到管事的还能让我回来
Didn't think the suits would have me back perhaps. 还以为他们会把我的节目
Thought they'd have my dairy-air replaced 换成某个曲奇店模型
by one of cookie store mannequin. 也许我是不"正常"
Well maybe I'm not "the norm". 我不"上镜" 衣着"不合身"
I'm not "camera friendly",I don't "wear clothes that fit me", 不够"催泪" 从没和"女人上过床"
I'm not a "heartbreaker",I haven't had "sex with a woman", 不知道"怎么勾搭女人"
I don't know "how that works", 看来我不"符合要求" 我不讲"卫生"
I guess I don't "fall in line",I'm not "hygienic". 我上厕所"屁股不擦干净" 不够"有型"
I don't "wipe properly",I lack "style", 没有"魅力"没有"自尊"
I have no "charisma" or "self-esteem", 没有"自己的牙刷" "喜欢抠血痂"
I don't "own a toothbrush",or "let my scabs heal", 我"够不到身体的各个部位"
I can't "reach all the parts of my body", 睡觉时汗如雨下
when I sleep I sweat profusely. 不过我想"掌权的"
But I guess the "powers that be" 会继续给我发薪水
will keep signing my pay check at least until Jack and Jane K. 观众开始起身拿遥控器
Viewer start to go for the remote 调回新闻评论
so they can get back to commentators 他们不会"吓坏孩子"
who don't "frighten children", 不会"吃自己的头皮屑"
who don't "eat their own dandruff", 不会"用高中用的指南针
who don't "pop their whiteheads with a compass 抠粉刺"
they used in high school". 谢谢 Kevin
Thank you,Kevin. 女士们先生们 感谢Bennet Brauer
Kevin Nealon: Bennet Brauer,ladies and gentlemen. 谢谢
Bennett Brauer: Thank you. 运动员Bay Brooth
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:In sports,Bay Brooth,at the time, 曾保持本垒打次数最多的纪录
the most home runs out of the any other player. 记录保持了多年
Held the record for many years. 有多少人知道他还有另一项记录
How many people know that he also topped the league 5 years. 5年来 他也是三振出局第一
5 years he topped the league in strikeouts. 这种情况很常见
Very often the case.Very often the case. 最成功的运动员竟然也是
That the most successful athletes are also ones 失败最多的运动员
who have failed the most. 一旦你准备击球
And if you reach for the stance, 得做好失败的准备
you have to be prepared to fail many times. 又或者是他们当中最伟大的
Or the greatest of them all. 在乔丹学会飞翔之前
(Michael Jordan) Before he learned how to fly, 他先学会了走路
he learned how to walk. 他学会走路之前 先学会了如何爬行
Before he learned how to walk,he learned how to crawl. 他也失败过许多次
And he failed many times. 来听听他是怎么说的 唯一的迈克尔乔丹
Here he is in his own words,the one and only,Michael Jordan. 我的职业生涯投篮失误超过9000次
Michael Jordan:I've missed more than 9000 shots in my career. 输了大约300场比赛
I've lost almost 300 games. 有26次
26 times, 我被委以重任投制胜一球 但失手了
I've been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed. 我这一生一次又一次失败
I've failed over and over and over again in my life. 所以我能获得成功
And that is why I succeed. 乔丹 我喜欢乔丹
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Ha.Michael.(Laugh) I love Michael Jordan. 人们记得让他声名大噪的制胜一球
People remember his game winning shot that made him famous. 那是在北卡罗来纳州 他最后一投压哨获胜
Was at North Carolina while he shot with the buzzer and they won. 但你们是否记得他有20次
Do you remember that he had 20, 你们是否知道他有26次压哨失手
or did you know that he had 26 game winning shots that he missed? 他失败了一次又一次 最终获得胜利
Well he failed time and time and again,which is why he succeeds. 成功别无他法
There is no other way. 爱迪生说过"我从失败中走向成功"
Thomas Edison.Remember "I failed my way to success"? 他失败了一万多次 才最终发明了电灯泡
Ten thousand times failures before he invented the light bulb. 但他没有把它们简单地视为失败
But he didn't see them as failures. 而是成功展示了哪些方法是不可行的
He succeeded in showing what doesn't work. 美体小铺的创始人Anita Roddick 去年刚过世
Anita Roddick,founder of the Body Shop,passed away last year. 取得了伟大的成就
Did fantastic work. 从诸多方面改变了商业世界
Changed business world in many ways, 参与了多项慈善事业
to make more compassionate businesses. 也是失败了许多次后才成功的
Failed time and time and again,and succeeded. 没有其他方法
No other way. 河对岸哈佛商学院教授
Harvard Business School. 她是心理学系的硕士研究生
She was a graduate student here in the psychology department 当时我还在读本科
when I was an undergraduate. 我还记得当时她在写学位论文
And I remember when she was working on her dissertation, 我们的导师是同一个人 我和...
cause we had the same advisor.I was working... 我俩的导师都是Richard Hackman
We were both working with Richard Hackman. 她当时的研究是有关医院的 目前的研究也与医院有关
And her work was,still is to some extent,in hospitals. 她想研究如何才能消除
And what she wanted to understand was how can you help eliminate 或至少降低医院的失败率 为什么?
or at least reduce failure rates in hospitals.Why? 因为医疗事故一年会损失几百万乃是几十亿美元
Because medical errors cost millions and billions dollars a year. 更重要的是
And much more importantly, 许多人因为医疗事故而丧失
many people lose their lives as a result of medical errors. 所以她想研究这一现象
So she wanted to understand this phenomenon 并寻找解决之道
and how you can reduce it. 她的导师是Richard Hackman
And she was working with Richard Hackman 他当时已对有效群组研究了数十年
who's been doing work for decades on effective groups. 参加过心理学501号课程的同学应该认识他
Those of you who have taken his class,psychology 501,know him. 如果还没有参加过 不妨列为第一选择
If you haven't taken his class,put it on the top of your list. 他对团队和小组进行了多年研究
And he's done work on teams,on groups for many years. 他发现在某些条件下
And what he found was there are certain conditions that 如果人们置身于某个组织
if they are put into place in an organzation, 更有可能表现优异
the group is more likely to perform well. 某些条件
Certain conditions. 所以Amy Edmondson的论文想要证明
And what Amy Edmondson wanted to do in her dissertation was show 如果医院采取Richard Hackman的建议
that when hospitals implement Richard Hackman's advice, 使用Richard Hackman所说的条件
when they have the conditions that Richard Hackman talks about, 比如给予团队明确可行的目标
such as a clear,engaging goal for the team,for the group, 建立有效的团队结构
such as an enabling team structure, 及时的组织支援 高效的训练
such as supportive organization,such as effective coaching. 当一个团队具备了这些条件
When a group has these conditions in place, 就会表现得更出色
it will not only perform better, 这也是Hackman十几年来的研究结果
which is the research that Hackman illustrates for decades, 而且会减少医疗事故
they will also commit less medical errors. 这是项非常重要的研究 于是她着手研究了
Very important research.So she did this research. 花费了很长时间
It took her very long time. 进行实地调查 在医院研究
She went to the field,studied at hospitals. 经过很长一段时间
And after a long time- 在William James大楼15楼
again this was on the 15th floor in William James Hall, 我还记得她得到结果的那天
I remember that- she one day got her results. 把数据输入了统计软件 按下了确认
Entered all her data into SPSS,pressed the button. 两组统计数据
And there was significant statistical difference 有明显差异
between the two groups. 使用Hackman条件的小组
The group that implemented Hackman's conditions 以及不使用Hackman条件的小组
and the group that did not. 找到了 她欣喜若狂 几年的工作成果
Eureka! She was happy,ecstatic.Years of work. 她跑去了Richard的办公室 对他说
And she runs to Richard's office,and says to him, "Richard 我得到结果了 在这里"
"Richard,I got it! Here are the results." 他说"让我看看" 他看了一眼
He says,"let's see.I want to see." So he looks at it. 说"Amy 太惊人了 结果令人惊讶
He says,"Amy,that's fantastic! It's very significant result. 这不仅仅是模凌两可的边界了 太棒了"
It wasn't just borderline.This is great! Fantastic!" 他仔细阅读起来
And he looks at it,and he says, "你确定是这个结果?"
"are you sure these are the results?" 她说"是啊 结果意义重大"
And she said,"yeah! They are highly significant!" 他又问"你确定?
He said,"are you sure? 有没有重新输入数据再测试一遍?"
Did you enter the data again and test it?" "有啊"她工作非常有条理 非常努力
"Yeah,Yeah!" She is very methodical,very hard working. 她说"都核对过了"
She said,"yeah,I did!" 于是他说"结果的确意义重大
So he said,"you know,these are certainly significant 但事实却恰恰相反"
but they are significant in the opposite direction." 也就是说使用Hackman条件的医院
Meaning the hospitals that implemented these conditions that 反而出了更多医疗事故
Hackman talks about were actually making more medical errors. 这简直给几十年的研究一个大大的耳光
Again this ? the phase of decades of research. 不仅是针对医疗事故
Never specifically about medical errors, 其他很多方面也是如此
but so many other related topics. 于是他说"结果就是结果 现实就是现实
And he said,"well,a result is a result.Reality is reality. 我们得回到现场 分析原因
We have to go back to the field and understand why. 理解这一现象
We have to understand this phenomenon." 于是她从头开始 精疲力竭 衰弱无力
So she had to go back to the drawing board- tired,enervated, 不理解怎么会这样 又回到了医院
didn't understand what happened,went back to the hospitals, 很快就发现了问题出在哪儿
and in almost no time,realized what the issue was. 这些事故更多的医院 或医院小组
These hospitals,or groups within these hospitals 其实并没有发生更多医疗事故
that made more mistakes did not actually make more mistakes. 而是报告了更多的事故
They reported more mistakes. 事实上 其他小组虽然表面上事故少了
In fact,the other groups,who on paper made less mistakes, 其实发生了更多的医疗事故
actually made many more mistakes. 但他们没有汇报
However,they did not report them. 她是怎么发现的呢
Now how did she know it? 因为有些事故是无法掩盖的
Because there are certain mistakes that you cannot hide. 比如 很难掩盖一具尸体
It is very difficult to hide a corpse,for example. 所以这些大事故发生时
So the mistake,the real major mistakes that were made, 这些小组不得不汇报
they were out,and these groups had to report these. 并不是他们事故减少了
It' not that they made less; 而是增多了 只不过没有汇报
they made more mistake but they didn't report. 于是她改变了研究的重心
And then she changed the focus of her research 转向心理安全概念
to the notion of psychological safety. 心理安全是一种感觉 经历 空间
Psychological safety is the feeling,the experience, 让你觉得可以在办公地点 在组织内
the space that you feel in your workplace,in your organization 安全地讨论错误与过失
where you are safe talking about errors and mistakes, 让你觉得摔倒了也能安全地站起来
where you feel safe falling down and getting up again. 有心理安全的组织
And these organizations with their own psychological safety, 会表现地更好
they performed better. 当时是1999年 她与全世界各国研究人员
And again,this was in 1999,a lot of research done by her 进行了大量研究
and people around the world, 证明了有心理安全的团队组织
showing how groups,organizations with their psychological safety 他们的雇员不会害怕告密
with their employees don't or are not afraid of whistle blowing 也不会害怕摔倒 或犯错
or not afraid of falling down of making mistakes. 这些组织更为成功
These organizations are significantly more successful. 它们是学习型组织
These are learning organizations 雇员不断地学习成长
with the employees constantly learn and grow. 从错误中学习
Or you learn from your mistakes 下一次就能做得更好
and then the next time you are able to do better. 意义重大 影响深远的研究
Very significant,very important research, 无论是领导者
whether it's for leaders, 还是家长...你们中很多以后会成为家长
whether it's for parents- many of you will be future parents. 你们会不会为自己的孩子营造心理安全
Would you have this psychological safety for your kids, 让他们毫无约束地告诉你
while they feel comfortable talking to you about things 他们做的不好 失败的事
that they did not do well,about failures. 因为如果他们愿意跟你说
Because if they do feel comfortable,they are much less likely 就不容易进入害怕失败的完美主义
to enter into this perfectionistic fear of failure. 而会更快乐 更成功
And they are much more likely to be happier as well as successful 来听听关于Thomas Watson的故事
This is a story about Thomas Watson, 他是IBM的创建者 他至今仍旧
founder of IBM,one organization that he invented and 每天不断地改造它
reinvented itself numerous times- continues on the daily basis. 所以IBM能发展至今
And that's why it survives. IBM刚成立 还在生产打字机时
So there was an employee at the beginning when IBM was founded, 有一名员工
when they were making type writers, 犯了战略性错误
an employee made a strategic error. 给IBM损失了一百万美元
And the error was that he actually lost IBM a million dollars 当时对于IBM来说这是一大笔钱
and a million dollars at that time for IBM was a lot of money. 于是他犯错后第二天
So the next day,after he made that mistake, 去找了创始人Thomas Watson
he comes to see Thomas Watson,the founder, 给了他一封信
and gives him a letter. Thomas Watson打开信读了读
Thomas Watson opens the letter and reads it 问那名员工 "这是什么"
and looks at the employee and says,"what is this?" 他说"先生 这是我的辞职信"
He says,"sir,it's my letter of resignation." "为什么辞职"
"Why resignation?" "先生 我刚犯了个错
"Sir,I just made a mistake 给您的公司造成了一百万美元损失
that cost your organization a million dollars. 我不想...您对我一直很好
I don't want...You've been great to me. 我不想让您烦恼
I don't want to put you 是否要炒了我
through this difficult experience of firing me. 所以我主动辞职"
So I'm resigning." Thomas把信撕了 说"炒了你?
Thomas took the letter and tore it and said,"fire you? Fire you? 我刚为您的教育投入了一百万美元
I've just invested a million dollars in your education 现在我要炒了你?"
and I'm going to fire you?" 无论这则故事是否100%真是 还是部分真实
Now whether this story is exactly true,or almost true, 在IBM公司广为流传
it's still a story that circulates around IBM, 在IBM公司营造了良好的氛围
and a story that creates a certain reality in IBM, 告诉大家"你必须尝试"
a reality that says "you have to try". 世界最成功的公司之一 强生公司
There is a similar story in Johnson & Johnson, 也有类似的故事
one of the most successful companies in the world, Johnson将军
where General Johnson, 他与兄弟创建了该公司
one of the two founders with his other brother, 他们俩都叫Johnson 所以叫强生公司
also called Johnson- just why it's called Johnson & Johnson. Jim Burke是强生公司的新人
So Jim Burke was an upcoming employee in Johnson & Johnson, 由于一个错误给公司造成了巨大损失
made a mistake that cost the organization a lot of money 简朴硬朗的Johnson将军
was called in the morning 一早会见了他
by General Johnson who was a very austere,very tough man. Jim Burke走进他的办公室 可想而知胆战心惊
And Jim Burke comes in,you know all shivering and scared. 他走进Johnson将军的办公室
He comes in and walks into General Johnson's office. Johnson将军从桌边
General Johnson walks from around his table, 走到他面前 说
goes to him and says, "恭喜 Jim Burke 恭喜"
"congratulation,Jim Burke! Congratulation!" 先生 我刚犯了个错
"Sir,I just made a mistake,sir." "是的 我知道 这是学习的唯一方法
"Yes,I know.This is the only way to learn. 现在犯得错越多 将来越有可能成功
The more mistakes you make,the more successful you will be. 恭喜"
Congratulations!" Jim Burke非常高兴 正准备离开
And Jim Burke was all happy and about to walk out. Johnson将军又说"还有一件事 Jim
And General Johnson says,"oh,just one more thing,Jim: 如果你再犯同样的错 我会炒了你"
if you make the same mistake again,I'm going to fire you." 这则关于失败的重要性的故事
But again,a story that goes around Johnson & Johnson 在强生公司流传开了
about the importance of failure. 而Jim Burke
Jim Burke,by the way, 成为了强生公司最成功的CEO
became the most successful CEO of Johnson & Johnson. Thomas Watson 马上就结束了 再给我一分钟
Thomas Watson- I'm almost done,one minute,almost done: "如果你想提高成功率
"If you want to increase your success rate, 就要将失败率翻倍"
double your failure rate." 我们已经讲过这项研究
We talked about this research.We talked about this research, 天才的起源
the origins of the genius- the most successful, 历史上最成功的艺术家
the most successful artist, 最成功的科学家
the most successful scientist in history are also the ones 也是失败最多的 经历过最多的失败
who have failed the most times,who have the most duds. 爱迪生 达芬奇
It's the Edisons.It's the Davincis. 米开朗基罗 居里夫人
It's the Michelangelos.It's the Marie Currie. 最成功的
The most successful 科学家与艺术家 经历过最多的失败
scientist and artist have also failed the most. 还有 Klam
And finally,Klam who did the... Jane Klam对节食成功
Jane Klam who did research on people's success in dieting 或成功开始运动的人士进行研究
or people's success in starting an exercise regime, 她发现最成功的
what she found was the most successful people, 有毅力坚持下来的人
people who have been able to persist 都平均经历过5次失败
are people who have failed on average 5 times before. 也就是说他们减肥5次 都没有成功
So they have been on 5 diets and  haven't succeeded. 到了第五次 或者第六次
The fifth one,or the sixth one- 才成功并维持住的
I'm successful and I'm able to sustain it. 运动也是如此
The same with the exercise regime. 学会失败 从失败中学习
Learn to fail or fail to learn. 周四见
See you on Thursday. 



 Chapter 14: 完美主义


大家好 上节课我们学到了休整
Student:Hello.Last lecture we learned about recovery. 时不时地放下工作 放松一下自己
At time,away from work really relax. 我想邀请你们参加一项传统并且
I'd like to invite you to join a traditional 有历史渊源的休整节日 犹太安息日
and time-tested recovery period,Shiva,the Jewish sabbath. 这周五的晚上
This Friday night, 哈佛的Howard Hill和Hervat将邀请大家
Howard Hill and Hervat at Harvard invite you and your friends 来Mac中心享用犹太安息日大餐
to Shiva dinner at the Mac for Shiva 1000. 欢迎来到Mac中心的露天平台
Come for free dinner at the deck down Mac 和你的朋友们一起享用免费大餐
with all of your friends, 我们的Tal Ben-Shahar教授将会发表讲话
where our very own professor Tal Ben-Shahar will be speaking. 中心将于六点半开门 晚餐七点开始
Doors are open at 630,and dinner starts at 7. 如果想参加请迅速在Shiva1000.org上回复
Please RSVP for this really fun event at Shiva1000.org. 所有人都欢迎前来
Everyone is invited,so please sign up. 大家好
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Hi,good morning. 我还被要求替女子垒球队通知大家
I was also asked to announce on behalf of the Women Softball team 她们原本是要来这里通知大家的
They would've been here and they would've announced themselves, 但是她们现在正在进行比赛 一场被推迟了的比赛
but they are at the game and that was delayed. 这周六和周日都有比赛
There's a game this Sunday and...Saturday.Saturday and Sunday. 还有男子棒球队
And also for the men's baseball team. 所以请去为他们欢呼 还有一个通知
So come out and cheer.And one more announcement. 他们听不见 抱歉 好的
They can't hear.Sorry.Yeah.Yeah. 好的 就是5月21号 九点十五分开始决赛
All right.So May 21,9:15- day for the final. 希望你们能过去看看
Um hope you can make it. 是周一 好的
OK.It's a Monday.All right. 每年只要我一要讲完美主义的课
So every year when I teach the perfectionism lecture, 就有点坏事要发生
something happens. 第一年
So the first year, 我记得我是把电脑忘在了家里
I remember I actually forgot my computer at home. 第二年 投影仪又坏了
Second time,the projector didn't work. 而这一年 我忘了带电源线了
And this year I forgot my power, 把电源线忘在了家里
my power for the computer at home. 所以希望这点电能支持一个学期
So hopefully it will last the entire semester. 如果不行的话我们就只能面对不完美了
If not we'll just have to deal with the imperfect scenario, 但是其实也没关系的
but that's OK. 这肯定是潜意识里的问题
I think it must be something subconscious. 因为这也太巧合了
Because it's too much of a coincidence 每次都有这些事情发生
that every time something happens. 的确是这样
Walk the talk. 那么上次我们讲到哪了
So where were we last time? 上次我们讲到你们是怎么学会走路的
Last time we talked about how you learned how to walk. 我们讲到你们是怎么学会画圆圈的
We learned about how you learned to draw circles. 都是通过不断地失败 如爱迪生所说
And all through failure.As Thomas Edison said, "我通过不断失败以至成功"
"I learned my way...I failed my way to success." 我们从那些最顶尖的运动员身上看到
And we saw it with top athletes, 不管是Babe Ruth还是乔丹
whether it was Babe Ruth or Michael Jordan. 我们也从最顶尖的生意人身上看到
We saw it with top business people, 不管是IBM创始人Thomas Watson还是
whether it was Thomas Watson,IBM or Anita Roddick, Anita Roddick 美体小铺的创始人
founder of the,of Body Shop. 我们从艺术家和科学家身上看到
We see it with artist and scientist- 最成功的人也是失败最多的人
the most successful ones are also the ones who failed the most, 而他们就是那些
and these are the ones 深刻明白失败的价值与重要性的人
who understand the value and the importance of failure. 我向你们保证 他们没人喜欢失败
I guarantee you then none of them enjoy failing. 失败让人受伤 让人极度失望
Failing hurts; it's disappointing at best; 让人沮丧 也经常使人尴尬
it's frustrating; it's embarrassing often. 但是 那些最为成功的人 都会
However,people who ultimately succeed recognize 认识到失败和从失败中学习的价值
that value of failure and learning from it. 有一本非常好的书
There's a wonderful book 是由我的一位导师最近完成的
that came out recently by one of my mentors- 他在商学院教了几年书
he taught at the business school for a few years; 他是一名在
he is a professor 南加州大学任职的教授 Warren Bennis
at University of Southern California- Warren Bennis. Warren Bennis写了一本书
And Warren Bennis wrote a book, 名叫做《极客与怪杰》
which is called "Geeks and Geezers". 在这本书里
And in the book, 他将非常年轻的顶多30岁出头的
he compared very successful leaders who were young, 年轻成功人士和老一代的
early 30s and older generation leaders, 真正有所成就的划时代领袖人物
people who have really made it, 他们多在七十岁 八十岁甚至九十岁以上
big time leaders who are now in their 70s and 80s,sometimes 90s. 他将两组人进行了对比
And he compared these two groups: 极客 指那些年轻的 怪杰 指年长的
the geeks- the young ones; the geezers,the older ones.And 而他发现 有一些
what he found was that there were a number of very interesting 非常有趣同时也很有意义的差异
and meaningful differences between the generations 存在于年轻的二十多到三十出头的成功人士
of again highly successful late 20s or early 30 years old 和年长的成功领袖人物之间
and highly successful older individuals. 其中最明显的差异就是
One of the most notable differences was that work... 工作与生活的平衡
work life balance, 这对于年轻的成功人士来说非常重要
which is very important for the late 20s,early 30s. 非常重要 他们自己也经常谈论这个
Very important- they talked about it constantly, 但是对于年老一代的成功人士那里
whereas for the 70 80 90 year olds, 这几乎完全就是一个外来观念
it was almost a foreign concept. 这是什么意思啊 为什么会这样呢
What does that even mean? Why? 因为他们总是处在工作中
Because they were at work usually 24/7. 在那个样本中所有人都是男性
All of them in that sample were men. 而女性则待在家里 负责生活的部分
And the women were at home,taking care of the life part. 所以说他们的工作与生活的平衡是
So there was a work life balance- where they were doing the work, 丈夫负责工作 妻子负责照顾生活
the wives were doing the life. 在年轻成功人士的样本里 男女都有
Whereas the younger generation,men and women in that sample 那他们自然会谈论到工作与生活的平衡
and talking about the work life balance. 两代人之间还有其它的不同
There are a few other differences as well, 但是也有一个相同点
but there is one similarity, 这一点对于两代人来说都是一样的
one thing that was common to both groups. 那就是有至少一次
And that was at least one, 一般来说要多于一次的 显著的失败
usually more than one significant failure, Warren Bennis称其为"考验" 一次灾难
what Warren Bennis came to call "a crucible",a real crisis 无论是重要的竞争失败 或者失去了工作
whether it was a meaningful loss or losing a job being fired, 还是受到了屈辱 失去了亲人
one's identity being insulted,loss of a person. 一些严重的考验 一次失败的经历
Some real serious crucible,a failure. 这是两代人都共同拥有的
That was common to both groups, 他们都将失败看做一个关键点
and both groups thought that failure as a pivotal point, 一个生活的转折点
as a turning point in their lives. 一些帮助造就今天的他们的因素
Something that helped them become who they are today. 再说一遍 我不是说已经发生的是好事
Again,not saying it happened for the best 而是他们能够好好利用已经发生的事
but they were able to make the best of that which happened. 每个人都会经历考验
Now most people experience crucibles 都会面临困难和阻碍
throughout their lives,hardships,difficulties, 但是那些极度成功的人
but difference between the highly successful people, 如Warren Bennis的书里面写到的那些人
for example the sample in Warren Bennis's book 和一般人的不同之处在于
and many other people is that 他们能够好好地利用已经发生的事情
they are able to make the best of what happens. 他们将这些事情看成机遇
They see it as an opportunity, 一种学习的经历 一块垫脚石
a learning experience,a stepping stone. 这就是失败对于适应力与完善人格的作用
The importance of failure for resilience,for well being as well. 我们继续来定义一下完美主义吧
So let me move on and define what we mean by perfectionism. 因为现在有很多的定义
Because there are many definitions 我们经常提及这个词
and we throw that word around constantly. 但我要说的完美主义是什么
But what do I actually mean by perfectionism? 我的定义是
I define it as: 一种充斥在我们生活中的对失败的失能性恐惧
an incapacitating fear of failure that permeates our lives, 尤其是在我们最在意的方面
especially those areas that we care about most. 注意"失能性"这个词 不只是对失败的恐惧
Note the word incapacitating.It is not just a fear of failure. 好吧 我也不认识哪怕一个不害怕失败
OK I don't know a person who is not afraid of failure, 也不会因为失败感到尴尬或沮丧的人
who is not embarrassed by it or feels frustrated by it. 这是很自然的
So that's natural. 这就是人性 不管我们喜欢不喜欢
That's human- whether we like it or not. 但对失败的失能性畏惧是
But an incapacitating fear of failure is the failure 一种让我们在面对问题的时候
that is debilitating us,that stops us,that prevents us 裹足不前的的畏惧
from coping,from trying,from putting ourselves on the line. 而我要在这个定义里强调的另一点
And the other part that I want to highlight in this definition 就是"尤其是我们最在意的方面"
is that "especially those areas that we care about most". 你们也明白
You know, 我在玩大富翁的时候可不是完美主义者
I am not a perfectionist when it comes to playing Monopoly. 这也不是因为...
It's not that 这的确很有竞争性
It's competitive. 但是对于我来说胜败并不重要
but it's not that important for me if I win or lose. 但是完美主义确是我生活的重心
But perfectionism was a central part of my life 比如说 就如同我提到过的
when it came to- as I mentioned earlier, 壁球对我而言非常重要
squash which was very meaningful to me, 学术对我而言也非常重要
academics which is very meaningful to me,and 和别人的关系对我来说也非常重要
relationships which was and is a very important part of my life. 在这些方面 我就体会到了完美主义
So in these areas,that's where I experienced perfectionism, 也是在这些方面 我必须并且一直在努力
and that's where I needed to do the work and still doing the work 在这些方面 让我详细说明一下
It's in those areas.Let me elaborate on this definition. 这是我们在面对人生的旅途的时候
It is an approach,a cognitive and emotional schema, 也是我们从A点到B点的过程中
that we hold toward the journey of our lives, 采取的一种方式 一种认知与情感的基模
toward the process of getting from point A to point B. 重点在旅途上面
The emphasis here is on journey. 一个追求卓越的人仍可能和完美主义者
A person committed to excellence can still be as ambitious 一样 或者比完美主义者更有野心
and more ambitious than a perfectionist. 两者之间的不同
The difference between the two 在于他们面对旅途时的方式
is just their approach toward the journey. 我来举个例子 首先是一个完美主义者
Let me illustrate.So let's first take the perfectionist. 他正站在A点
The perfectionist is currently at point A, 他想到B点去
wants to get to the point B. 什么是最完美最有效率的方式呢
What's the perfect,most efficient path between the two points? 就是直的路线
Straight line! 这就是路线 这就完美主义者在面对
This is the path- this is the cognitive and emotional schema 旅途的时候抱有的认知与感情的基模
that the perfectionist has when he or she looks at the journey, 怎么从起点到终点
how they want to get from where they are now to where they want to get to. 一个追求卓越的人
A person committed to,to excellence, 和完美主义者一样雄心勃勃
as ambitious as the person,perfectionist, 也想从A点到B点去
wants to get from point A to point B. 没什么不一样 不同之处在哪里
No different here.What is different? 对于这段旅途 认知基模上的不同
The cognitive schema that relates to the journey. 追求卓越的人明白
The person committed to excellence understands 当他进步的时候 不可避免地会遭遇失败
that while he improves,inevitably at some point,he would fail. 一个追求卓越的人明白
A perfectionist understands that 有时候她不一定能拿到她想要的分数
sometimes she may not get the grade that she expected, 但她会吸取教训
but she would learn from it. 一个也明白在恋爱关系之中
A perfectionist understands that in relationships 根本就没有完美的恋爱关系
there is no such thing as a perfect relationship 所以 他会犯错
and then therefore,he sometimes makes a mistake, 她也会犯错
so she sometimes makes a mistake, 但他们都会不断吸取教训
but they continue and they learn from it. 然后他们的感情不断地变得更加坚固
And the relationship becomes,gets stronger. 完美主义者明白
And a perfectionist understands that 他需要不断地失败
he needs to fail time and again- 五次 十次 有时候一万次
5 times,10 times,sometimes 10 thousand times 就如同我们了解的爱迪生的故事那样
as we saw with Edison until they get to the point B. 一样地野心勃勃 但是基模有所不同
As ambitious,but the schema is very different. 我必须画出许多不好的圆圈
I have to draw many failed circles 在你们画出Vincent上次画出的那个圆以前
before you get to that ideal circle that Vincent drew last time. 现在的问题是 哪个才更现实
And the question now becomes "so which is realistic?" 拥有这样的基模是否现实
Is it realistic to have that schema 或者说这个才比较现实
or is this one more realistic? 我想这是很明显的
Well,I think it's pretty obvious. 要达到成功可没有直线的捷径
There is no straight line toward success. 要达成一段快乐的恋情也没有捷径
There is no straight line toward a happy relationship. 要发明电灯泡也没有捷径
There is no straight line toward being inventing the light bulb, 学好心理学也没有
or being good at psychology, 想成为好的父母或者朋友也没有
or being a good parent or a good friend. 我们会犯错
We make mistakes. 而且 自然的规律我们必须遵守
And "nature to be commanded must be obeyed." 追求卓越就是要克服困难
Pursuing excellence is about a constraint view of nature. 是啊 我也希望我能直接从A点到B点
Yes,I wish that I could get from point A to point B in this way. 我希望我能做到 我希望我不必经历失败
I wish I were so.I didn't enjoy failing my generals; 我不喜欢不断地失败与打壁球输掉
I didn't enjoy falling down many times and losing in squash. 我当然也不会喜欢和我妻子意见不合
I certainly don't enjoy disagreements with my wife. 我甚至宁愿没有万有引力定律
However,I also would rather not have the law of gravity 然后我就可以到处飞或者到处飘
and be able to fly everywhere or float everywhere. 这是现实 而这就是幻想了
This is.This is a fantasy. 当我们心中存在着这样的基模的时候
And when we have this schema in our mind, 我们就在让自己反抗自然规律
we are putting ourselves,fighting nature, 就如我们如果不接受万有引力定律的话
and just like we would lead an unhappy and frustrating life, 我们的生活就会充满不快与沮丧
if we did not accept the law of gravity, 我们活着 那么多人也活着 哈佛有不少人
we live and so many people live- so many people at Harvard, 不只是哈佛 所有地方都有 时常沮丧
not just at Harvard,everywhere are frustrated constantly, 因为在他们心里 他们一直有这样的基模
because in their minds,they have this schema. 再说一遍 这并不是说我们该享受失败
And again,this does not mean that we enjoy failure. 但当我们有这样的基模的时候
But when we have this schema, 同时又不享受失败
in addition to not enjoying failure, 我们就会因为难以接受事实而沮丧
we have the frustration of not accepting reality. 拥有这样的基模也会有后果的
Now there are consequences to having this schema. 我就想讨论一下这样的后果
I want to discuss some of these consequences 怀有拥有这样的基模的人的一些特征
and some of the characteristics of a person who holds this schema 根本就没有完美的完美主义者
Now there is no perfect perfectionist. 就如我说的 我们都存在于一个闭区间内
As I said,we all exist somewhere along the continuum. 确实有一些人
And there are many people, 确实有很多人更接近这个区间的这端
again,many people here were closer to this end of the continuum. 我想和你们分享的这些特征 都是那些
The characteristics that I'd like to share with you are all ones 已经被记载于文学作品之内的
that are documented in literature. 有很多人都拥有这样的特征
There are many people who have them. 你们大家或多或少都具有一些这样的特征
You will identify with some of the characteristics, 而不是别的特征
not with others. 这也没关系的
That's fine. 所有的这些特征 除了都已被心理学著作
All the characteristics in addtion to being well documented in 详述以外 我也都有过体会
the psychological literature are also ones that I experienced, 或者现在仍有所体会
or still experience. 所以这些特征对我来说具有一定的意义
So these ones are personally meaningful to me, 它们本身也非常常见
in addtion to being also quite common. 第一个是 自卫性
The first one: defensiveness. 在争论和讨论中 完美主义者都有自卫性
In arguments,in discussions,perfectionists are defensive. 为什么 因为批评在定义上就是一种
Why? Because a criticism is by definition a deviation 对于完美的直线方式的偏离
from a straight line. 这就是不完美 是一种挑刺
It's imperfection.It's a daint. 就是我没做得完美的事情
It's something that maybe I'm not doing perfectly well. 我们都不喜欢偏离我们所持基模的东西
And we don't like deviations from a schema we have. 记住了 我们的心是不喜欢内在与外在
Remember,the mind doesn't like when there is an inconsistency 之间的脱节的
between what is inside and what is outside. 我们需要的是平衡 一致
We want there to be a balance,congruence. 我们不喜欢横生枝节
We don't like desinence. 而如果我们心中抱有的是完美主义基模
And if what we have in mind is the perfecionist schema, 而批评又是对其的偏离
the criticism is a deviation from it. 那我们就会变得有自卫性
And then we become defensive. 这是我多次有所感受的
Again,something that I experience numerously times; 并且也是我一直在努力解决的
something that I'm working on constantly. 附带一提 或者说是正好相反
In addition,or in constrast, 一个追求卓越的人是心胸开阔的
a person committed to excellence is open, 他会欢迎时不时的建议与批评
is welcoming of suggestions and criticisms at times. 这不是说他或者她喜欢这样
It doesn't mean that he or she enjoys it, 而是他或她明白这是必要的
but he or she understands that it's necessary, 这是成长与发展的重要部分
that it's an important part of growth,of development. 完美主义者只注意到空着的那半个杯子
Perfectionist focuses on the half empty part of the glass. 为什么 因为完美主义者为失败所困扰
Why? Because a perfectionist is obssessed by failure, 被对直线完美方式的偏离所困扰
obssessed by deviations from that straight narrow. 而不管是什么 困扰我们的
And whatever it is,what are obssessed with by definition 就是我们所关注的
is what we constantly focus on. 他或她一直关注未能达成的东西
So he or she constantly fosues on what is not working, 关注潜在的可能失败或者是真正的失败
on potential failures or actual failures. 追求卓越的人
Person committed to excellence 则会专注于已经满的那半个杯子
focuses on the half full part of the glass. 为什么 因为他或她既享受达成目标
How? Because he or she enjoys getting to where he or she is going 又学会享受过程中的每一步 那就是旅途
but also learns to enjoy every step of the way- the journey, 即便是失败也能是机遇
even failure is an opportunity. 完美主义者会过度一般化 夸大化问题
Person com...A perfectionist over generalizes,catastrophizes. 非黑即白 我要么是完美的 要么一无是处
It's all or nothing.Either I'm perfect,or I'm a failure. 我们等一下就能看到
And we'll see the consequences 这样的"全部或没有"的对立于现实的方法
in a minute of this "all or nothing" approach. 造成的后果
Versus realistic. 我们又谈到了 明白现实是什么样的
Again,realizing what reality looks like, 明白事物的过程是怎么样的
what progress in essence looks like. 对于完美主义者来说 是没有自我接受的
For perfectionist,there is no self-acceptance. 对于追求卓越的人来说
A person committed to excellence- 能够接受现实中存在的各种弯路
there is acceptance first of all of reality as comprising spirals 而没有一步登天的捷径
rather than a straight line. 能够接受个人的失败
Acceptance of personal failure 能够将自己视作一个整体予以接受
and the acceptance of the self as a whole. 对完美主义者来说 只有一种方式是合适的
Perfectionist- there is one way and that's the highway. 并且是固定不变的
It is a static. 没有任何提升的空间 也没有丝毫偏离
There is no improvization; there is no deviation; 更没有问题和错误
there is no trial and error. 只有一种方式 而不是更为动态性的
There is just one way in contrast to having much more dynamic, 更有弹性与自发性的过程与旅途
flexible process and journey,with much more sponetaneity, 在行为中自我证实
which manifests itself of course in behaviors. 完美主义者恐惧失败 恐惧来自于内心的
A perfectionist is terrified to failure- terrified that failure 自己将自己视为失败者的失败
from within that he or she perceives themselves as failures 也恐惧他人将自己视为失败者
but also that others see him or her as a failure. 就是为了维持那种完美的幻觉
Keeping that fa?ade,that image of impregnability of perfection. 而不是将失败视为反馈 不是说要享受失败
Versus failure as feedback.Again,not enjoying failure. 我还没遇到过享受失败的人
I haven't met a person who does enjoy failing, 而是要将失败视为一种反馈和成长的机会
but seeing it more as feedback,as a growth opportunity. 完美主义者只想着怎么到达这里
A perfectionist is all about getting here. 他们只关注这个 只针对目的
That's what it's about.This is a means toward an end. 直来直去的
Tangential. 别的事情根本不重要
Something that is not important 如果它不能让我达到目的的话
other than taking me from here to here. 但对于追求卓越的人来说
Or as for person committed to excellence, 旅途和终点都是成功的一部分
the journey is much part of the success as the destination. 这样的基模上的差异
Now there are numerous,numerous consequences to this distinction 会导致很多的后果
to holding one schema versus the other. 我在这里列举一些
Here are some of them. 第一个 就是完美主义者只能感受到
The first one is that a perfectionist experiences only, 最多也只是 暂时性的轻松
at best,temporary relief. 是的
So yes, 他们会感受到持续的压力 但当他们
there are constant pressure but when he or she gets to point B, 达到目的之后 他们感到了轻松
then they feel relieved. 这就是典型的逐利者
This is essentially the consummate rat racer. 我来给你们一个这样的逐利者的例子
Let me give you an example of such a rat racer. 一个人 我们姑且称他为X先生
The person- let's call him X- 去上学了 上小学
goes to school,goes to an elementary school. 在那之前
Until that point, 他一直很享受学前的生活
he really enjoyed his day care,pre-K,kindergarten. 而他上学以后就开始有压力了
And then he goes to school and the pressure begins. 因为他明白 他必须很努力地读书
Because he begins to understand he really needs to work very hard 并取得非常好的成绩来上一个好初中
and do extremely well if he is to get into a good middle school. 因为他父母想让他进的那间初中
Because the middle school that his parents want him to go to 竞争很激烈 非常不好进
is very competitive,very tough to get into. 他确实进了一间不错的小学
And he did get into a very good elementary school. 但是现在他要为初中而努力了
But now he has to do the same for middle school. 所以他有了压力 他并不享受小学生活
So the pressure mounts.And he doesn't really enjoy school. 但他确实感受过轻松 在假期到来的时候
But then he experiences relief when the holidays come, 在全家去度假 或者考试结束的时候
when they go on a family vacation or when the exams end and 在他可以不用担心考试和朋友玩的时候
he can play with his friends without thinking of the next test. 他经过了小学阶段 却不怎么喜欢
He goes through school,not really liking it, 他感受过轻松 却丝毫没有感受过
experiencing more series of reliefs rather than passion 在他还在幼儿园的时候感受过的那种
and love of learning which he did experience 对于学习的热情与喜爱
when he was in kindergarten,but no more. 他后来进入了梦想中的初中
And he gets into his dream middle school- 那所他一直想要进入的初中
the middle school that he was meant to go to all along. 他做到了
He makes it. 他只在前两周里感觉非常高兴
And he feels wonderful and great and terrific for 2 weeks. 因为他要开始考虑
Because he now needs to start thinking about 他梦想中的高中了
the high school of his dreams. 为什么 因为那所高中
Why? Because that high school 是进入全国最好的那些大学的垫脚石
is a feeder school for the top colleges in the country. 他也很想进入一间全国最好的大学
And he really wants to get into one of those. 所以他在初中又很努力地学习
So he really struggles and works hard during,in middle school. 他并不怎么享受这样努力的过程
He doesn't really enjoy his work. 但是他成功了 他进入了梦想中的高中
But he makes it,and he gets into his dream high school. 他很兴奋 从来没有这么高兴过
And he is ecstatic.Happier than he had ever been before. 因为他已经是全国最出色的孩子中的一员
Because here he is- among the smartest kids in the country. 进这所高中不容易 但是他做到了
Very difficult to get into this school- but he makes it. 然后他又开始学习
And there he starts to learn. 他又只开心了一周 压力又来了
He's happy for about a week and then the pressure mounts 因为这所高中里面竞争非常激烈
because it is a very competitive school 他必须加入两个运动队
and he has to join two varsity sports 还有三个学生组织 因为他必须
and three students organizations because he has to pad, 充实他的简历好让自己进入梦想中的大学
to build his resume so that he gets into his dream college. 他过得很挣扎 一点意思也没有
And he struggles,and it's not fun. 但是他对自己说"这只是暂时的
But he says to himself,"this is just temporary. 痛苦是短暂的 等我进入了全国最优秀的
It's only pain now,because later there will be gain- 大学就会有回报的" 然后他付诸行动
once I get into my top college." And he applies. 在4月2号 一封信来了
And on April 2,there is an envelope that arrives. 信的信封很大 他打开信知道自己成功了
And the envelope is large.And he opens it up and he gets in. 他又感到非常地兴奋
And he is ecstatic, 甚至比进入高中时还高兴
happier even that he was when he got into his dream high school. 然后他说 "现在 我终于能放手
And he says,"now,finally,I can let go. 好好地放松一下了
Now finally,I can relax. 因为我已经进了这间大学
Because I've already made...I mean this top college. 我的人生从此稳定下来了"
And I'm set for life." 接下来他十分享受高中的最后一年
And he really enjoys the rest of senior year 还有假期以及进入大学的第一周
and the holiday and then the freshman week comes. 他很兴奋 这位X先生
And he is ecstatic- Mr X. 但是在第一周过去后 压力又出现了
But then after that week,the pressure mounts again. 因为很快就会到期中考试
Because very soon there are midterms. 而很快又会出现激烈的竞争
And very soon there is competition. 并且每个人都和他一样努力
And everyone is working as hard as he did. 因此他也必须非常地努力
And he has to work really hard 因为他想得到他的梦想中的工作
because he wants to get his dream job. 他在大一暑假的时候得到了理想的实习机会
And then he gets his ideal internship during freshman summer 但是压力又继续出现了
and the pressure continues. 他感受过轻松 也感受过愉快的时光
There are reliefs; there are fun periods. 但是这些都是在考试结束以后
And these are periods when the exams are just over 或者假期即将到来之前
or when break is coming up. 或者是在假期期间
Or during break. 但是每次都一样 压力又出现了
But then again,the pressure mounts. 他自己也不明白为什么他不开心
He doesn't really understand why he's not happy 因为这一切都是他想要的
because I mean this was where he really wanted to be, 他非常想要这些 多于别的一切
he really really wanted to be- more than any other place. 他说"好的 只要我得到这份工作就好了" 为什么
But he says "OK,once I get that job then I'll be set." Why? 因为那份工作能让我进入最好的商学院
Because that job will really get me into the top business school. 这能让我在一千六百个
It will really differentiate me from all the other 1600 students 一同毕业的人中脱颖而出
who will graduate with me. 所以他继续努力 继续充实他的简历
So he works hard,still builds his resume. 他是三个学生组织的成员 担任两个的部长
He's a member of 3 students organizations,president of two. 是两个大学运动预备队员 一个正式队员
JV in two sports and varsity in one,plus taking five, 还要加上每学期五门甚至六门课
and sometimes six courses in a semester. 为什么 因为这很困难 竞争很激烈
Why? Because it's tough.It's competitive. 这就是适者生存 不付出就没有收获
And it's the survival of the fittest.And no pain,no gain. 大学最后一年到来了 他又有压力了
Senior year finally comes and there's pressure. 但是他得到了那份工作 他很高兴
But then he gets his job.He's happy. 这就是他想要的
This is exactly what he wanted. 这就是他所预想的
This is exactly what he envisioned. 现在他很高兴
And now he's happy. 然后8月3号到了
And then comes August 3, 是他正式开始工作的第一天
which is the date when he starts his actual work. 他上班去
And he goes to his work 他周围的所有人都是最高等学府的
and everyone around him is graduated 毕业生 都是最优秀学校的学生
from top universities,top places. 他觉得已经功成名就 却只高兴了两周
He feels on top of the world.And he's happy for 2 weeks. 因为在两周以后
Because after 2 weeks, 他又感受到了非常大的压力
he realizes there is a lot of pressure here, 比大学里面的压力还要大
actually much more than it was in college. 他没有时间再像大学里面一样在饭堂里
And he can't have time for those long leisurely dinners 悠闲地吃晚饭
in the dinning hall. 他每周工作八十到九十小时 一点也不享受
He's working 80 t0 90 hours a week and not really enjoying it. 但是他会做到的 他会做得很好的
But he'll make it.He'll get there. 他会得到一封很好的进商学院的推荐信
He'll do well,get a good recommendation for business school, 在从商学院毕业以后
and then after business school, 找到一个真正的理想工作并享受生活
get his real dream job and then he can enjoy himself. 然后他真的进了最高的商业学院
And he gets into his top business school choice 也找到了他最好的工作
and then he gets his top job. 工作上 作为一个员工 他很高兴
And in his job,as an associate,he's really happy. 事实上他甚至不敢相信自己的好运
In fact he can't believe his good fortune. 他赚钱赚得很多
He's making a lot of money. 那三年前看起来难以忍受的助学贷款
Those student debt looked so serious 现在一下子就还清了
and over-bearing only 3 years ago and now are paid in an instant. 他感觉很棒
He feels good. 他有了一间很不错的公寓
He has a nice apartment 他成了员工 他很兴奋
and he becomes an associate and he's ecstatic. 他很高兴 "我终于做到了"
He's happy,"I finally made it!" 但是过了几个月 压力又回来了
But a month goes by and the knot returns. 因为他只是一个员工
Because he's only an associate. 他非常非常想成为合伙人
He now really,really wants to make partner. 但当他成为合伙人以后
But once he's partner, 当他获得了"终身任期"以后
once he got the so called "tenure" of the business world, 他的生活就可以安顿下来了
then he'll be all set. 他继续努力工作 奋力拼搏
And he works hard.He struggles. 他不怎么喜欢他的工作
He doesn't really enjoy his work. 只要再努力多一点 再忍受多一点痛苦
But he says,"just another push.A little bit more pain. 然后就会有真正的回报了
And then the real gain." 在艰苦努力了五年以后 他又做到了
And after 5 years of pushing hard,he makes it. 他成为了合伙人 事实上
And he becomes a partner- in fact, 也是那个公司历史上最年轻的合伙人
one of the youngest partners in the history of the organization. 他很兴奋
And he's ecstatic. 他休了一个长假 然后回来工作
He takes a long break and comes back after the break, 斗志满满
all motivated. 因为他现在是所有者
Because now he's owner, 是这个著名的公司的所有者之一
part-owner of this great prestigious organization. 现在他也已经成家了
And by now he has a family now already.And 他买下了市郊的一座大房子 非常贵
he buys a huge house in one of the suburbs of the city,expensive 但是他轻易买下了 他也买了一辆豪华车
But he bought it easily.And he buys a luxury car. 他还有了一个司机 他感觉真的功成名就了
In fact he has a driver by now.And he feels on top of the world. 他感觉良好地过了三个月 压力又来了
He feels great for 3 months.And then the pressure returns. 因为他只是一个初级合伙人
Because he's only a junior partner. 他能成为高级合伙人吗 这可能吗
Can he make the senior partnership? Is it possible? 好吧 只有努力工作才可能
Well,only if he works hard 因为没多少人能爬到金字塔那么高的位置
because a few people make it that high up in the pyramid. 越来越难了 但是他会成功的
It's getting tougher.But he'll make it. 他挣扎着 忍受着 一点意思也没有
So he struggles and he suffers,and it's not fun. 但是他成功了 没有付出 就没有回报
But he makes it.No pain,no gain. 这一次 他在Hamptons区买了一栋房子
And by this time,he's just bought another house in the Hamptons- 用来度假和休息
just for the holidays,for the breaks. 还有一辆新车 更大 也更快
And there's another car- a bigger one,a faster one. 然后他说 我终于 终于 能够放松了
And now he says,"I can finally,finally relax." 然后他开始放松自己 过了两个半月
And he does relax.For 2 and a half months. 压力又回来了 因为他只是个高级合伙人
And then the pressure returns.Because he's a senior partner. 但是常务董事只有一个
But there is only one managing director.Only one. 想得到那个位置是非常困难的
And to get that would be really tough. 但是他决心要当上常务董事
But he's determined to do it. 他一直是明星级人物 没理由止步不前
He's been a star; there's no reason to just stop now. 这对他来说没什么乐趣可言
It's not fun for him. 他没有花多少时间和他爱的人一起
He doesn't spend that much time with people he loves, 而因为他心中的焦虑 他必须证明自己
because he's constantly stressed; he has to prove himself. 足足花了七年时间
And for 7 long years, 在这七年内 他在物质上已经很富足了
while there is material affluence for those 7 years, 只是愈发地缺乏时间
there is time poverty,time famine. 他不断地奋斗 最后终于成功了
But he continues to struggle and he makes it. 董事会发表了任命声明
The board makes an announcement. 他登上了华尔街日报的头版新闻
He's on the Wall Street Journal,front page news: X先生成为了这件传奇公司的常务董事
Mr X is the new managing director of this incredible organization 他的朋友们祝贺他
And his friends congratulate him. 他感觉万分自豪 他很快乐
He feels on top of the world.And he's happy. 但是随后焦虑回来了
But then the stress returns. 有一天他走进办公室里
But then one day,one day he walks into his office, 坐在椅子上 脚搭在桌子上
sits on his chair,puts his legs up on the table. 他已经成了老板 成了掌门人
He's after all the Boss,the Man. 他回头就可以看见中央公园
He looks back and sees central park. 那景色实在太美了
Just beautiful there. 他真的是 而不是修辞地说
He really is,not just metaphorically speaking- 他真的是站在了世界之巅
he really is on top of the world. 然后有人敲门了
And then there is a knock on the door. 他被敲门声吓了一跳
He's surprised by the knock, 因为一般来人了他的秘书会向他通报
because usually his secretary announces people- 访客不会就这么过来敲门
they don't just knock on his door. 毕竟他是站在世界之巅的人
He's after all,on top of the world. 于是他走过去开了门
So he walks down and opens the door. 来人是董事会主席
And it's the chairman of the board. 他们俩互相打了个招呼
And she says hi to him.He says hi back. 然后董事会主席说 "今年的盈利记录
And she says,"you know,record earnings this year. 非常之棒 不可思议 您做得太好了
Well done! Fantastic! You have done amazing,amazing work. 我们都为您而骄傲 感谢您的存在
We are all so proud of you.So glad you are in your position. 但是 您应该退休了 您已经72岁了"
However,it's time to retire.You are 72 years old." 这就是逐利者的生活 最佳情况下
This is the life of the rat racer- at best. 当然这只是大概的描述
And again,this is a caricature. 我只是着重描述了几个特殊的阶段
I've highlighted just certain points. 这也不是要么全部要么没有
It's not as all or nothing. 但是 总的来说 这就是逐利者的生活
However,in essence,this is the life of the rat racer- 只关注从A点到达B点
about getting from point A to point B 然后轻松半个到一个月
and then feeling relief for two weeks or a month. 然后...B点又变成了新的A点
And then getting...point B becomes point A. 然后 就像一直不断向上爬的老鼠
And again,like the rat running around on and on and on and on. 你们必须现在就问自己 不现在问那还要等多久
And you need to ask yourselves now- because not now then when? 你们必须现在就问自己
You need to ask yourselves now, "我到底想要什么样的生活"
"what kind of life do I want for myself?" 我给的是一个生意场上的例子
I gave an example of business. 其实对于其他领域也一样
It applies as much to any other domain- 不管你是想成为一个医生
whether you are,want to become a medical doctor 是因为能否上到最好的学校而有压力
and going on and feeling pressure to get into the best schools, 是想要最好的公寓 最好的实习机会
the best department,the best internship, 最想要好的 最高的职位等等
the best,the highest position and on and on; 或者你是打算为非盈利机构工作
or whether you are working for a non profit organization; 无论你是留在学术界 还是成为律师
or whether you are in academia; or a lawyer. 都一样 都是在不同领域重复X先生的故事
It doesn't matter- just filling the blank of Mr X in which area. 这样的情况适用于任何地方
It applies to any place. 问题就是 "我们想要什么样的生活"
And the question is,"what kind of life do I want for myself?" 要记住其中最重要的
And remember the most important thing, 一个追求卓越的人
a person committed to excellence 不会放弃自己的雄心
does not give up on being ambitious. 但是 一个追求卓越的人
However,a person committed to excellence 也不会放弃整个旅途
does not also give up on the journey. 我们很快也会讲到
And as we'll talk about soon, 追求卓越的人
a person who is committed to excellence, 不仅仅不会放弃整个旅途
not only does he or she not give up on the journey 或者结果
or rather on the outcome, 他们常常会获得更高的成就
they actually reach higher levels of performance. 我们很快就会讲到
But we'll get to that soon. 追求卓越的人
A person committed to excellence 并不只关注短时间的放松
is not just about temporary relief, 还关注长久的满足
but about lasting satisfaction. 是的 生活中会有起起伏伏
Yes,she has the ups and downs like we all do. 但是 也能够享受旅途中的每一天
However,also able to enjoy the journey day to day- 在大学里的经历
the experience being the college, 和朋友们美美地吃了一餐的经历
the experience of having a lovely meal with my friends, 阅读名家的作品的经历
the experience of reading and being exposed to great writers, 上有趣的课 参加有趣的课外活动的经历
to interesting classes,to nice extra curricular activities, 并且重视这样的经历 而不是忽略它们
and appreciating it,not taking it for granted, 不是把这些看做普通的
not seeing it as just incidental- 为了成功的最终目的
just something that I need to get through 我必须经历的事情
in order to get to where I really want to get to. 你或许会非常渴望成功
Well,you may want to get...really want to get there, 但是你所在的却是此时 此地
but where you really are is here and now. 不是别处
No other place. 你们也知道 我从来没有 或许你们有
You know,I haven't met,maybe you have, 我从来没有遇见过完美的人
but I haven't met the perfect person. 我认为这样的人是不存在的
I don't think that person exists. 换句话说 如果根本就不存在完美的人
In other words,if there isn't a person,a perfect person, 那么对每个人来说 失败都是不可避免的
for every person,there's inevitable failure. 为失败所困惑的完美主义者
And a perfectionist who is obsessed with failure 只是专注于失败 而追求卓越的人
just focuses on that,whereas the person committed to excellence, 则会发现路途上每一步都有成功的机会
there is possibility of success every step of the way, 甚至在失败中也有这样的机会
even in failure. 完美主义者常常将时间浪费在
A perfectionist very often wastes time- 必须读清楚每个字
has to read every word,every... "我要做到最好 拿满分"
You know,"i have to be dotted,every t crossed." 要么全部要么没有
It's all or nothing. 要么我交上去一份完美的论文
Either I hand in a perfect paper, 要么我就干脆不交论文
or I don't hand in a paper at all. 要么我就拿到A 要么我就一无是处
Either it's a straight A,or I'm a failure. 要么全部要么没有 有时候这是合适的
All or nothing.And sometimes,it's appropriate. 有时候追求卓越的人也会持有这种态度
And that's what a person committed to excellence does- 比如
understands when,for example, 如果你是一个医生 你想做一场完美的手术
if you are a surgeon,you want to have the perfect operation. 你可不会说 "好吧 没关系啊
You don't want to say,"well,it's OK. 我切对了八成应该切的东西"
I'm 80 percent right about where exactly to cut." 没错 在有些场合你会需要完美主义
Yeah,there are places where you want the perfectionism. 但是在我们生活中的其他方面 都不必要
But in many other areas in our lives,it's not necessary. 甚至会伤害我们 完美主义者往往倾向混乱
And it hurts us.A perfectionist is very often prone to disorders. 我是指多方面的混乱
And I mean disorders of numerous times including, 比如进食问题
for example,eating disorder. 我来给你们提供一个个人的例子吧
So let me give you a personal example. 在我还在打职业壁球的时候
So when I was playing squash,when I was playing full time, 我必须控制我的食谱 要吃得健康吃得好
I had to really take care of my diet- eat healthfully,eat well. 但还是产生了问题
But there was a problem. 我的生活中有一项重大挑战
There was a real challenge in my life. 这挑战就是我的母亲个完美的大厨
And that challenge was my mother who is the perfect cook. 她做的的蛋糕尤其诱人
And her cakes are outstanding. 于是就有了这样的我在长大的时候
So here is the common scenario that 常常遇到的状况 痛苦的童年
I encountered growing up- tough childhood: 我在壁球训练过后回家
I would come home after the squash practice, 饿得要命地打开冰箱
open the fridge,starving. 然后那里面有一大块蛋糕
And there was a large piece of cake. 不是一整个 但差不多四分之一个
Not a whole cake,but you know a quarter cake, 非常大的一块 实在是非常诱人
very large,so inviting.So alluring. 我根据以往的经验知道 这很好吃
And I know from past experiences it's so delicious. 我看着这块蛋糕 然后关上了冰箱门
I look at it.And then I close the fridge. 因为我不能吃
Because I can't have it. 当时我正在在为一个重要的巡回赛训练
I'm in middle of training for an important tournament. 但是在三分钟以后
But three minutes later, 我回到冰箱那看蛋糕还在不在
I go to the fridge again,just to make sure it's still there. 为什么 你们中认识我兄弟的都明白
Why? Those of you who know my brother understand why. 我兄弟块头比我大多了
My brother is much bigger than I am. 他对我母亲的厨艺的喜爱一点不在我之下
And he likes my mom's cooking no less than I do. 所以我去确定蛋糕还在那
So I was just making sure that it was still there. 确实还在
And it was. 再过了十分钟 我必须再去检查一遍
And then 10 minutes later,I had to go back because my brother 因为我兄弟在我视线内消失了几分钟
had just disappeared from my eyes a few minutes. 我以为他到冰箱那去了
I thought he went to the fridge. 所以我又打开了冰箱一次 蛋糕还在
So I opened the fridge again and it was still there. 然后我感到一阵轻松
So I was relieved. 大约五分钟以后我又回到冰箱那里
And about 5 minutes later I had to go back to the fridge. 我打开冰箱门 两分钟以后蛋糕就不见了
I opened the door and two minutes later,there was no cake. 要么全部要么没有 要么我不碰要么我吃完
All or nothing.Either I don't touch it,or I devour it. 这就是完美主义者持有的基模
This is the schema that a perfectionist has. 不会说"好吧 我就吃一块" 要么不吃要么吃完
It's not "OK,let me have a slice of it." It's nothing or all. 所以这就是完美主义者的基模
And this is the schema that perfectionists have: 我要么成为超级模特 要么超重
either I'm a supermodel or I'm overweight. 要么全部要么没有 这是很有破坏力的
All or nothing.And it's destructive. 这会对我们产生各个层次的严重伤害
It hurts so much on so many levels. 相对于健康的方式而言
As opposed to the healthy approach. 好的 我就吃一小块
OK,so I'll have a slice.So I'll have a little bit. 好的 我重了几磅 这算大事吗 我是人
OK,so I gained a couple of pounds- big deal?! I'm human. 我不是机器 也不是芭比娃娃 更不是Ken
I'm not a machine.I'm not a Barbie.Or Ken.(Laugh) 我说错话了
I caught myself there. 这很伤自尊 为什么 因为
Hurts self-esteem.Why? Because... Nathaniel Branden写过很多关于自尊的文字
Nathaniel Branden who writes about self-esteem- 我们在未来三周内将会更多地讲到他
we'll talk a lot about him in that lecture 3 weeks from now. 自尊的第一个基础就是自我接受
The first pillar of self-esteem is self-acceptance. 要记得完美主义者是不接受自我的
And remember a perfectionist does not accept him/herself. 第二个伤害自尊的原因是
Second,the reason why it hurts self-esteem- remember, 完美主义者总会遇到长期且不可避免的失败
there is constant,inevitable failure for a perfectionist 因为根本就没有完美的人
because there is no perfect person.And 而如果我一直失败或者视自己为失败者
if I constantly fail or constantly perceive myself as a failure, 那我还会有较高的自尊心吗 当然不会
am I going to have high self-esteem? Of course not. 另一个完美主义者容易自尊心受伤的原因
It also hurts self-esteem because a perfectionist 是他们更不愿意去尝试
is less likely to try,less like to put him/herself on the line. 而如果我不愿意尝试的话 其后果就是
And the price that I pay for that 更加低的自尊心
when I don't try is lower level of self-esteem. 还记得自我知觉理论吗
Remember self-perception theory. 相对的是持续的自我提升
Versus on-going,continuous improvement. 不是一条直线直上的 而是旋转向上的
Not a straight line,but a spiral that goes up and up. 完美主义伤害人际关系
Perfectionism harms relationships. 回想过去 我从这个角度来说
Again,I just look back and I,you know from this perspective, 我很难捉摸 我基于完美主义
it's hard for me to fathom the kind of mistakes 在人际关系中所犯的错误的类型
that I have made in relationships based on perfectionism. 为什么 第一 自卫性
Why? First of all,defensiveness. 如果我一直是处于自卫性的位置
It is very difficult to form intimacy with some one 如果我不能接受或者处理批评
when I'm constantly on the defensive,when I can't accept 那我就很难和别人形成亲密的关系
or do something at the very least with criticisms. 这样的情况下怎么可能建立亲密关系呢
What kind of intimacy is possible there? 另一个完美主义伤害人际关系的原因是
The other reason why it harms relationships 我们经常
is that very often,we mirror... 我们对世界的看法和对自己的看法一样
Our approach to the world mirrors our approach toward ourselves. 如果我是完美主义者那我期望的就是完美
So if I'm a perfectionist and expect perfectionism- 对我来说是一条直线 对他人亦是如此
a straight line for myself,I would expect the same from others, 不论是对于我的伴侣
whether it's from my partner, 还是对我的孩子和朋友
whether it's later on my children or friends. 现在我们...
And now as we... 我以前也说过了 没有完美的人
I think- I establish before- there is no perfect person. 我们第一次见面的时候可能感觉是完美的
Now it may seem perfect when we first meet. 在度蜜月的时候 也是完美的
And during the honeymoon phase,it is perfect. 他或她是完美的
He or she is perfect. 但是突然 我们开始发现对方的缺点了
But beyond that,suddenly,we begin to identify flaws.Hey, 那不是我一开始以为可以在一起的那人
that's not the person I thought I got together with initially. 当然 如果我期待的是芭比娃娃或Ken的话
Yes,of course it's not,if what I expect is Barbie or Ken. 完美的 但是对方可是人
Straight line.But it's a human being. 如果我从对方身上期待的是完美
And if I expect perfectionism from the other, 我肯定会失望的
I will inevitably be disappointed. 这也会引起沮丧
And that leads to frustration, 对自己的伴侣不认可
lacks of acceptance toward the partner, 也常常会伤害到人与人之间的关系
and very often,usually harms the relationship. 相对于持续成长的关系来说
Versus on-going growth of the relationship, 这是我们会在谈论人际关系的时候谈论到的
as we'll talk about when we talk about relationships. 理想的人际关系
The ideal relationship 不是一个没有失败
is not a relationship that is devoid of failure, 没有不和的关系
that is devoid of disagreements. 理想的人际关系在包含众多积极因素同时
The ideal relationship is one where there's mostly good stuff, 也会包含不和 失望和争吵
but there's also disagreements,disappointments,fights. 那才是健康的人际关系
That's actually healthy. 这让人际关系随时间变得更加稳固
It helps the relationship become stronger over time. 关键是其中的度
The issue is of degree. 你在人际关系中包含的
How much positive versus negative 积极因素与消极因素各是多少
do you have in the relationship? 这里的关键不是只有积极而没有消极的因素
The issue is not having only positives and no negatives. 这样的关系是不健康的
That's not a healthy relationship. 这样的关系
That's a relationship 有过多的抑制与压抑
with a lot of suppression and repression at best. 完美主义会导致焦虑和压力
Perfectionism leads to anxiety,leads to stress. 总会有对于失败的恐惧
There is always a fear of failure. 而不是兴奋
Versus excitement. 这就是Peter Senge所说的"创造性张力"
What Peter Senge called "creative tension". 但是表现如何
But what about performance? 那句已经镌刻在我们心中的
What about the "no pain,no gain" mantra "没有付出就没有收获"的真言呢
that's drilled into our mind constantly? 我是说我们很清楚地都知道
I mean we know self-evident that 我们必须要努力才能成功
we need to work hard in order to succeed. 那难道我不应成为完美主义者吗
So shouldn't I be a perfectionist? 而人们不愿放弃这种方式的一个原因是
And one of the main reasons why people don't give up the schema 他们认为这是最快的方法
is because they think this is the fastest way, 是最为有效的通往成功的方法
most efficient way to success. 但是最后事情往往都不是那样的
But it turns out that it's not the case, 长久来看 追求卓越的人往往
that actually the person committed to excellence 会取得更好的成就
is more successful in the long run. 在这方面有很多研究进行了阐释
And there is a lot of research that illustrates this. 我来举出一些成果 一些原因
Let me share some of it.Some of the reasons. 现在说说少一点付出 多一点收获
Now,less pain,more gain. 首先 以终极货币的形式
First of all,in the ultimate currency, 用幸福来进行衡量
the most important currency of happiness. 追求卓越的人
People committed to excellence 远比完美主义者要快乐
as opposed to perfectionists are happier. 这很好 也很棒
So that's wonderful and that's great. 但也不仅仅是在终极货币价值方面
But it's not just in the ultimate currency, 在硬通货等物质方面也是同样的
it's also in the hard currency, 不管是工作上的成功 还是体育上的成功
whether it's success at work,whether it's success for athletes, 还是处理人际关系上的成功
whether it's success in relationships. 为什么 其中有很多原因
Various reasons. 首先 追求卓越的人
First of all,person committed to excellence 享受更加可持续的成长
enjoys much more sustainable approach to growth. 记住了
Remember, 这个我从环保方面引用的词 可持续增长
the analogy that I use from environmentalism- sustainable growth. 不是要创造一个贫瘠的环境
It's not about having a sterile environment. 不是关于回到以狩猎与采集为
It's not about going back to the days of 主要生活方式的时代去的
when we lived as hunters and gathers in caves. 是关于以现代生活方式生活
It is living in accordance of modern life. 是关于享受进步与现代性 与此同时
It is enjoying modernity and progress,but at the same time, 不从环境中索取过多
not taking too much out of the environment 让发展得以持续下去
so that it can sustain itself. 放到个人层面上也是一样的
The same on the individual level. 完美主义者不会享受持续性的成长
A perfectionist does not enjoy sustainable approach to growth. 因为他们不允许休整和偏离
Because there are no places for recovery,no places for deviation 所有东西都是不变的 如同一台机器
Everything is static like a machine. 至于追求卓越的人
As opposed to a person committed to excellence: 有所偏离 有所中断 也有休整
there are deviations,there are breaks,there are recoveries. 相比起来更加可持续 如果我受伤了
Much more sustainable.Versus all or nothing.I got injured. 我的壁球生涯就结束了 因为要么全部要么没有
My squash career ended because it was all or nothing. 要么我就完全不训练
Either I don't train at all 要么我就像世界冠军Jansher Khan那样训练
or I train like Jansher Khan,the world champion. 同时追求卓越的人所拥有的
Also intrinsic motivation 固有动力也比完美主义者高很多
is much higher for people committed to excellence. 当我们有固有动力的时候
And when we have intrinsic motivation, 我们就能更好地在一段时间内持续地
we are much more likely to sustain effort 付出努力
over a long period of time, 如果所有的动力都是固有不会减退的
and if all the motivation is intrinsic. 那就能上升到另一个层次
Comes to getting to that next stage. 获得嘉奖 或者能得到升迁
Getting those accolades.Getting that raise and so on. 丘吉尔说完美主义让人瘫痪
Winston Churchill said that perfectionism spells paralysis. 当我们被失败所困扰的时候
When we are so obsessed with failure, 我们就更不会付诸行动
we are much less likely to act. 完美主义是事情耽搁的最主要原因之一
One of the primary causes of procrastination is perfectionism- 对失败的失能性畏惧
the incapacitating fear of failure. 因为只要我们不行动 我们就不会失败
Cause if we don't act,we don't fail. 就如同我之前说的 追求卓越的人的自尊
Self-esteem as I mentioned earlier 相比起来更高
is much higher for a person committed to excellence. 而且如Nathaniel Branden所说 自我知觉
And as Nathaniel Branden said,self concept is destiny; 是终点 而信念变成自我实现预言
beliefs become self-fulfilling prophecies. 如果我相信我自己 如果我认为我能成功
If I believe in myself,if I think I can succeed, 如果我的过去有跌倒之后
if I have the track record to show that 又爬起来的经历
I get up after falling down, 那我就更可能成功
I'm much more likely to succeed over time. 我以前讲过这个吗 好的
Did I mention this before? Oh.OK.Good. 因为这很重要 要成功没有别的方式
Because it is important.There is no other way to succeed. 你们读到了"运气的因素"
You are at "the Luck Factor", 英国的Wiseman教授极为优秀的作品
the fantastic work by Wiseman,UK professor. 他所说的是 比别人有更多运气的原因
And what he talks about,one of the causes of having more luck 似乎是一件很神秘的事情
in our lives seems like a mystical thing, 但其实也是可以用科学方法解释的
but actually can be shown scientifically. 其中一个有更好运气的方法
One of the ways of having more luck 便是尝试新事情 小事情
in our lives is to try new things,little things, 即使是你课后去食堂的路上
even when you walk back to your dining hall after class. 找一条和你每天所走的那条路
Take a slightly different path,as opposed to the path 有些许不同的路线
that has already been taken by you every single day. 而她说 这些小事就可以改变我们的生活
And he says these little changes in our lives, 这些小小的对于直线方式的偏离实际上
these slight deviations from a straight narrow actually 能带来更多的幸运
lead to higher levels of luck, 因为我们开始看见以前没见过的东西
because we begin to see things that we haven't seen before. 完美主义者 只有一条路
Perfectionist- one way; 没有偏离 没有进步 没有自发性
no deviations,no improvisation,no spontaneity. 这些时常都让我们变得不那么"幸运"
This very often prevents us from being "luckier". 说到创造力 Simonton说 那些历史上
Creativity- Simonton: the most successful, 最成功 最有创造力的科学家和艺术家
the most creative scientist and artist throughout the history 都是那些失败得最多的
are ones that fail the most. 他们都不是完美主义者
They were not perfectionists. 他们都追求卓越 非常有雄心
They were committed to excellence- extremely ambitious, 都明白要成功没有别的方法
understanding that there's no other way to succeed. John Updike 一位非常有创造力的作家
John Updike,highly creative author, 说过"完美主义是创造力的敌人"
says "perfectionism is the enemy of creativity." 我们会谈到另一个作家
And we'll talk about another author 他对于我们如何克服这种完美主义
who has very good advice for us of 有非常好的建议 他叫Samuel Coleridge
how to overcome this perfectionism,Samuel Coleridge. 80/20规则
The 80/20 rule. 这条规则 了解这条规则并将其应用在
This rule- understanding this rule 时间管理上改变了我在哈佛的学习经历
as it applies to time management changed my Harvard experience. 那帕累托法则是什么呢
So what is the Pareto principle? 帕累托是100年前的意大利经济学家
Pareto was an Italian economist about 100 years ago. 他得出了这样的法则
And he came up with this principle 并将其命名为帕累托法则
which he named the Pareto principle. 这法则表示 在大多数社会中
And the principle says that in most societies, 百分之二十的人拥有百分之八十的财富
20 percent of the people own about 80 percent of the wealth. 他们也将这条法则应用于商业组织
They applied this principle to organizations as well, 那就是你百分之二十的客户
where 20 percent of your clients 给你带来了百分之八十的收入
generate 80 percent of your income. 这也被用于经济学的许多领域
And this has been applied to many areas in economics. 而到最近 被用于时间管理方面
And more recently,to time management. 比如说 在我们百分之二十的时间里
For example,in 20 percent of our time, 我们可以完成百分之八十的工作
we can get 80 percent of our work done. 而当我明白这一点的时候
And when I understood this, 它改变了我对学术的态度
it changed my approach toward my academics. 为什么 因为我意识到
Why? Because I realized that 我不必将那些材料完全读完
well I didn't need to read 100 percent of the material. 再说一遍 这点别学我
Again,don't quote me on this. 我交论文前不必确认每一个t都写好了
I didn't need to make sure that every t's crossed 也不必确认每一个i上面都点了点
and every i's dotted when I handed in the paper. 我开始遵循更多的愉悦原则 或者说
And I started to follow much more the pleasure principle 快乐原则 于是我说
or the happiness principle and I said, "好的 这才是我感兴趣的东西"
"OK,this is something that I really cared about." 比如说 我不知道这门课还有没有
For example,I don't know if this class is still offered now. 文学与艺术学院课程 C14 "英雄"
Lit and Arts C14 "Heroes". 还能报名吗 这是我本科时候最喜欢的课程
Still offered now? One of my favorite classes,as an undergrad. 而且这课程还不算太难
And it's not a very difficult class. 我完全可以不怎么努力也得好成绩
I could do very well without putting too much in it. 但是我在这科的期末论文上花了50个小时
But I spent a 50 hours on final paper. 因为我写的主题是我非常关心的
Because I wrote about a topic that I really really cared about. 但是我没有得A 对我来说毫无道理
And I didn't get an A for it,which didn't make any sense to me. 但我仍然在上面下了大工夫
But I still put in so much work in it. 因为这实在是太有意思了 至于其它课程
Because it was fun,whereas other classes that I enjoyed less, 我只投入了能让我得到足够成绩的时间
I put in what I needed in order to get what I thought was enough. 不是要么全部要么没有
Not all or nothing. 不会说要么我就得A 要么我就不学习
Either I study and get a straight A,or I don't study at all. 另一门课
Another class- 我不知道这门课还有没有 还是文学与艺术
I don't know if it's still taught- Lit and Arts again, Maria Tatar教的"神话故事" 她现在上别的课了
"Fairy Tales"? With Maria Tatar? She teaches another class now. 我本科时看见她第一眼就爱上了她
I had a crush on her when I was an undergrad. 我真不敢相信我就这么说出来了
I can't believe that I just said it loud.(Laugh) 那么 她拒绝了 其实我没有问她
So yeah,she said no.Um no I didn't ask her.I didn't. 也是在那门课上 不算太难的课
So also in that class- not a very difficult class. 在许多层次上来说非常享受的课
A very enjoyable class on many levels. 又一次 我花了许多时间在这篇
And again,putting a lot of work into a paper that 最终成为一篇以自尊为主题的
there by the way ultimately began the to... 专题论文之上
became the topic of my dissertation on self-esteem. 所以再一次问自己到底什么才是重要的
So again,asking what is most important for me? 除了要么没有要么全部外 我还在乎什么
What do I really care about as opposed to saying all or nothing. 我的成绩确实下降了一点点
Now my grades did go down slightly as a result. 但是只是很少一点点
But really very little. 因为我在应用这条20/80法则
Because I was employing that 20/80 rule. 将百分之二十的注意力放到重要的东西上
20 percent of focus on what's important 然后把百分之八十的工作做好
and got the 80 percent of the work done. 而我在学术的其它领域
And I became so much more successful 却获得了更多的成功
in other areas of my academic career, 因为我有了更多的时间来打壁球
because I had more time to play squash 来享受壁球练习
and enjoy my squash practice. 我有了更多时间来和别人交流
I had more time for socializing, 有时间去坐在法学院里吃一次五点开始的
for sitting in Law House and having a two and a half hour dinner, 持续两个半小时的晚餐
starting at 5 pm. 就是在这样的基础上实现的
Just based on that. 另一个对于80/20的应用
Another application of the 80/20 rule: 我们每人在一天中都有不同的
all of us have different time during the day 最有工作效率的时间
when we are most productive. 实际上 在一天中百分之二十的时间内
In fact,in 20 percent of the day,we get 80 percent, 我们完成了百分之八十的工作
potentially,80 percent of our work done, 这取决于我们是早起的鸟还是夜猫子
depending whether we are morning people or night people. 有的人早上6点或7点就起来了
There are people who get up in the morning at you know 6,7 am 然后他们立刻就可以工作了
and they are ready to go. 我也是这样的 我很早起床 对我很简单
That's me.I get up early.Very easy for me. 我可以直接开电脑工作或去给孩子换尿布
I just go straight to my computer or to change a diaper. 很早的早上 直接去工作 没问题
Very early in the morning.First thing.No problem. 但是到了晚上9点10点 就完全不行了
At night,by 9,10 pm,complete zombie. 有人却是截然相反的
And there are people who are the opposite- 他们可以熬夜到凌晨2点 3点 4点
can stay up till 2,3,4 am in the morning, 那才是他们最有干劲的时候
and that's when they are the freshest. 这和我们内在的生物节奏有关
By the way,it has to do with our internal biorhythm, 和我们的生理节奏有关
internal circadian rhythms. 因为有人
Because there are some people for whom- 基本上没有人的周期是正好24小时的
no one is exactly or very few people are exactly 24 hours rhythms 大多数人都是23到25小时之间
We are usually either somewhere between 23 and 25. 对于周期是23小时的人来说
So for people whose circadian rhythm is 23 hours, 他们到了晚上就会非常疲劳
they get very tired at night. 但是他们早上却会精神抖擞地起来
But then they wake up very fresh in the morning. 那些周期是25小时的人
Or people who are closer to 25 早上需要多睡一会
need that extra sleep in the morning. 就是因为那些人我才将这课调到11点半
And it's for those people that I have this class at 11:30. 我知道是很早但是感谢你们的到来
I know it's early but thank you for making the effort. 我上大学的时候 大多数人都学到很晚
When I got to college,most students were studying late at night. 我的室友就学到很晚 从晚上10点开始
My roommates were studying late at night,starting at about 10 然后学到12点甚至凌晨2点
and going to you know midnight or 2 am in the morning. 这才是他们最有效率的时候 可我不是
And that's when they are most productive.I wasn't. 我宁愿早上早点起来
And I would get up in the morning 我在晚上会很累 根本无法集中精神
and I was tired,exhausted,couldn't really focus at night. 我听说了这样的效率时段后 我改变了作息
And when I heard about this productive hour,I changed my day. 我早早睡觉
And I went to sleep early. 在我的室友开始学习的时候 我上床睡觉
So when my roommates started to study,I actually went to bed, 然后在我的室友还在睡的时候起床
and got up really early when my roommates were still asleep 然后在早上早早地把工作完成
and got my work done early in the morning, 做完以后去上11点的课
and then went to my 11 am class after I got my work done. 在早上的那3个小时内
And in 3 hours in the morning, 我完成了更多东西 更有效率更有创造性
I got much more done- more productive,more creative, 比我在晚上熬夜有效率得多了
much better retention than I did late at the night. 我刚才说到的那两样东西
These two things as I mentioned earlier 真的改变了我在这里的经历
really changed my experience here- 在更短的时间内学到更多
getting so much more in far less time. 不是完美主义的方式 是追求卓越的方式
Not the perfectionist approach,the pursuing excellence approach. 大家都了解过"流动"了
You read about "flow"- Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi谈论过流动
Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi who talks about flow 是我们最良好的感受 最出色的表现
is being peak experience we enjoy the most and peak performance- 也就是"没有付出就没有收获"
we perform at our best,defying the "no pain,no gain" formula. 我们什么时候感受到流动
And when do we experience flow? 我们焦虑的时候感受不到
Not when we experience the high levels of anxiety 就如完美主义者那样 我们无聊时感受不到
as the perfectionist often does,not when we are bored, 只有我们乐观愉快 兴奋的时候感受得到
but when it's the optimum levels of arousal,when we are excited. 追求卓越的人
The person committed to excellence 更容易感觉到流动
is much more likely to experience the flow 而那些一直畏惧失败的人
than the person who is constantly afraid of failure, 一直为失败所困扰的人
constantly obsessed with failure, 一直在设想如果我失败了怎么办的人
constantly thinking about what if I fail. 我来谈谈完美主义的根源吧
Let me talk a little bit about the sources of the perfectionism. 因为一旦我们明白 就如我上次说的
Because if we understand that,as I mentioned last time, 一旦我们明白它是怎么来的
if we understand where it comes from, 我们就更能克服它
we are much more likely to be able to get over it. 完美主义的根源
So some of these sources of perfectionism. 第一个 最重要的因素就是社会影响
The first one,the most important one is conditioning. 我们都不是天生的完美主义者
I mean we are not born perfectionist. 你们在录影带中看到的孩子 他们天生
Children as you saw in the video- they are,as you know, 比我们更能享受学习的过程
born actually enjoying the learning process much more than we do. 我们畏惧失败 他们却不断跌掉了又爬起
When we are afraid of failing,they fall and they get up again. 所以是社会的影响导致了
So it's through conditioning that 我们对于失败的畏惧 确切地说
we learn to be afraid of failure,specifically, 是这样一种在我们心中烙下的
the schema that we internalize 并且几乎从出生开始就不断被加深的基模
that's being reinforced constantly from almost the time 那就是 成果才是真正重要的
when we were born- that what matters is the destination. 当我们得到了某个成果的时候
When we get to a certain destination 比如学会走路 做得好
such as learning how to walk- well done! 在我第一年期末的时候得了A 真不错
Such as getting A at the end of my first grade- terrific! 只有我们的成果受到了奖励
Gold star! It's the destination that's rewarded. 过了没多久 我们就开始内化这种基模
And after a while,we begin to internalize this schema 并且我们也开始相信我们接受它
and we begin to believe that we accept it 当我们达成了某种成就的时候
when we achieve a certain completion 这样的事在我们的生活中一直延续着
and goes on throughout our lives. 我们什么时候会得到奖金
I mean when do we get a bonus? 在4月3号吗 当然不是 是在12月31号
On April 3? No,we get it on December 31! 或者说是圣诞节之前 年末
Or just before Christmas at the end of the year. 今年大家都干得不错 很好
This was a good productive year.Well done. 我们什么时候会得到分数
When do we get the grades, 还被别人轻拍后背表示做得不错
the pats on the back if we did work well? 是在学期末
At the end of the semester. 或是在考试后 我们完成了某些事的时候
Or after an exam when we have completed something. 不会在旅途中得到
Not during the journey. 换句话说 整个旅途都没有受到奖励
In other words,the journey goes unrewarded. 于是我们也就开始认为它是无关的
And we begin to perceive it as inconsequential, 是不重要的 只是到达终点的一种方式
not important,just a means toward an end. 只有非常少的教师 家长 组织
Very few teachers,parents,organizations, 还有学校会奖励旅途 奖励旅途中的愉快
schools reward the journey- the enjoyment of the journey. 当然 也有很少的人会奖励失败
And of course,very few reward,lo and behold,failure, 可这是旅途中不可避免的
which is an inevitable part of every journey 所以我们觉得这不好 这一点也不好
so that we learn no good- this is no good- 我们必须尽可能地追求直线
we must have as much as possible a straight line. 一种直接的基模
A straight schema. 我们内化它的时候也付出了代价
And we pay a price for it when we internalize it. 这就是我们出生所在的社会环境
And this is the kind of social environment that we are born into, 我们成长所在的社会环境
that we are raised in, 而这样的社会环境很难以改变
and the social environment that is very difficult to change. 我也知道 我家里也有孩子
I mean I know- I have little kids at home. 这太难以改变了
It is so difficult to change it 因为我自己也时常对孩子说并且专注于
because very often I'm inclined to say to focus "Shirell学会走路了
from early on the day "Oh Shirell just learned how to walk! 做得好 你学会走路了"
Well done! You know you just walk" 而不是奖励其中所付出的努力
as opposed to rewarding the effort as we'll talk about 我们等会会讲到 奖励付出的努力
in a minute and rewarding the hard work and 甚至奖励失败 应对与整个过程
rewarding even the failure,the trying,the coping,the process. 非常难
Very difficult. 这当然也和准许为人有联系
And that's connected,of course,to the permission to be human. 准许看到人类本性的限制
The permission for the constraint of view of the human nature, 而不是理想化 孤立地
as opposed to the idealized,disconnected, 分离地看待生活
detached of view of what life can look like. 因为这不可能
Because it can't. 如果不是准许为人 而是要求完美的话
Instead of permission to be human,there's pressure to be perfect 压力是持久存在的
It's constant.It's on-going. 存在于媒体中 存在于工作中
It's in the media.It's in the workplace. 存在于教育机构中
It's in our educational institutions. 这无处不在 我们也为之付出了代价
It's everywhere.And we pay a price for it. 现在 我来给你们看几个例子
Now let me give you some examples. 在那前先给你们介绍一下
Before I give this example,just a quick introduction. 你们都知道 学术研究赚不了多少钱
As you know,academics don't make that much money. 进入学术圈的人 大多都不是为了钱
When people go into academia,it's usually not for the money. 有很多学者
So many academics, 我也不例外 必须额外赚取收入
myself being known no exception have to supplement their income. 我也有额外的收入
So I supplement my income- 而我希望和你们分享一下我额外做的事
and I want to share with you something that I do on the side. 我的眼镜掩饰了我有腹肌的事实
(Laugh) Yeah.My glasses are just to hide the abs.Yeah. 那么 他是真实的吗
So I mean,is he real? 这间房间里有谁是长这样的吗
Is anyone in this room who looks like this? 我也没指望你们来回答
Yeah,didn't mean for you to answer that question. 但我的意思是 他是真实的吗 部分真实的
But I mean is this real? Well,partially. 这照片修过不少地方
A lot of it is photoshoped. 但是没错 确实有人长是这样的
But yeah,there are some people who look like this. 但是我们在杂志会看到什么
But what do we see in the magazines? 我是说 如果你们进一家杂志店里面去
I mean if you go to the magazine store. 你们也知道这种杂志的 这些就是
You know the magazines these are the kind of people 封面上的人物
who are on the cover. 十分完美 完美的存在
Perfect.Perfect beings. 甚至更加地
Even more so- 我们的Ken还有芭比娃娃都更加完美
you know so we have our Kens- even more so with the Barbies. 我在谷歌图片上找了好久 来看看吧
I just do a lot of work on Google image.So look at this. "科学的进步"
"The Progress of Science". "近代艺术的范例"
"Some Examples of Recent Art". 就像今天的Cosmo杂志一样 不是么 看这个
Just like Cosmo today,right? Well,so look at this. "性爱女神的秘密"
"Sex Goddess Secrets". 我是说 这甚至不是"性爱人类的秘密"
I mean,it's not even "Sex HUMAN Secrets"! 那还不够好
That's not good enough! 看看我们为自己定下的这些标准吧
Look at these standards that are set for ourselves! 我怎么才能变成那样 这里 我没看到
How am I ever going to match that! Or here- oh I didn't see that. "百分之三十的..."我应该好好读一读
"The Naughty Thing 30%..." I should read that.(Laugh) 但这不是我想指的
But that's not what I want to point to. 其实我想指这个"如何快速进步"
I actually wanted to point to this- "How to Get Ahead Fast". 要多快有多快 对吧 时间不多
As fast as you can,right? There is no time.Or this- "Never". "永远不长痘痘"我都37岁了还有痘痘
"Never Have a Zit Again".I mean,I still have zits.I'm 37. 他们怎么做到的 又是不现实的模型
What do...How do they do that?! Again,unrealistic models. 1997年我还在新加坡住的时候
You know in 1997 when I was living in Singapore, 我想带Nathaniel Branden去新加坡
I wanted to bring Nathaniel Branden to Singapore. 他被认为是自尊研究的领头人
Again,he is considered the leading person on self-esteem. 他的妻子Devers Branden也在自尊
His wife,Devers Branden has done a lot of work 与自我成长方面花了很多功夫
in the areas of self-esteem and personal growth. 所以我希望能让他们来新加坡
So I wanted to bring them both. 所以我请他们来为我工作的公司
So I brought them to consult for the organization 做咨询
where I was working. 我在寻找其他途径
And I was looking for other ways 因为其他途径所要筹集的经费比较多
because it was very expensive for other ways of funding that trip 而我的一个好朋友
And a close friend of mine, Pat Lee那时在为美体小铺工作
Pat Lee was working at the time with the Body Shop. 她说"这实在是太好了
And she said,"you know,this is perfect. 因为美体小铺还有Anita Roddick
Because the Body Shop this year and Anita Roddick 我之前提过她 对于女性自尊也很感兴趣
whom I mentioned earlier is interested in self-esteem for women. 那为什么我们不能让Devers和Nathaniel
So why don't we do a project with Devers and Nathaniel 还有美体小铺联合起来
and the Body Shop joint venture 在新加坡搞一次关于女性自尊的活动呢
and have self-esteem for women in Singapore?" 我认为这主意非常不错
I thought it was a great idea. 我和Anita Roddick见了面
I actually met with Anita Roddick. 然后我们共同赞助了Nathaniel Branden
And we co-sponsored Nathaniel Branden- 后来这次活动非常成功
it was a highly successful event. 本来有700个座位 可来了1000多人
We had 700 seats; over 1000 people came. 我们得在场外放置等离子大屏幕
We had to have plasma outside. 还有 这次活动对很多人产生了激励
And in addition,it made a huge stir 并激发了一场运动 或者说是小规模运动
and really started a movement or a mini movement 在新加坡的 女性自尊的运动
in Singapore- self-esteem for women. 作为结果
As a result, Nathaniel Branden写了本书 叫"女性的自尊"
Nathaniel Branden wrote a book,called "Self-esteem For Women". 因为他被我们在研讨会上所讲述的
Cause he's blown away with the fascinating stories 那些故事给深深吸引了
that were told in the seminar and so on. 不管怎么说 Anita Roddick在女性和自尊方面
Anyway,but Anita Roddick has done a lot of work 做了不少工作
for women and self-esteem. 其中一个项目 她在1997年策划的
And one of the projects- she did that in 1997- 我觉得你们大多都太年轻了 可能不知道
I think you were,most of you were too young to be aware of it, 但是所有美体小铺的分店都有一个
but it was on all Body Shop stores was one 叫做Ruby的洋娃娃 用来取代芭比娃娃
that she based on a doll called Ruby,the alternative to Barbie. 然后那次活动是这样的
And here is what the campaign looked like. 抱歉
Whoops! Sorry. "有三十亿女人长得不像超级模特
"There are 3 billion women who don't look like supermodels 只有8个才像"
and only 8 who do." 或者"媒体们
Or "Hey media, 在我们家乡 文化与生理的多样才是标准
Where we come from cultural and physical diversity is the norm. 那里就是地球"
It's called Planet earth." 这次活动非常成功 也很重要
Very effective campaign.And so important. 因为我们今天文化中的
Because what of the models that 模型就是这样的 要么全部要么没有
we have today in our culture- all or nothing. 这些照片是一同被找到的
I mean,this picture by the way came together. 我没把它们特意放在一起
I didn't put them together. 要么你大吃大喝 要么就不吃不喝
Either you binge,or the alternative. 我们从电影中得到了什么
Or what do we get in the movies? 谁能达到《壮志凌云》里面的标准
I mean who possibly can live up to the standards of Top Gun? 汤姆克鲁斯和凯莉麦吉利斯
Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis. 他们拥有的那种完美的爱情
The perfect love that they had there, 但这是我们所有的模型
but this is the model that we had- 等我们谈到恋爱关系的时候会讲到
and I'll talk about it when I talk about relationships. 谁又能度过《爱你九周半》那样的九周半呢
Who possibly can sustain even for "9 1/2 Weeks" (movie), 更不要说过一辈子了 那电影里的激情
let alone a life time? The passion in the movies. 都是不可能的标准 还有那些自助的书
Impossible standards.Also,self-help books. 比如《思考致富》
"Think and Grow Rich". 和这个没什么关系 只要思考 就能致富
Nothing much about this.No,just think.And then you'll be rich. 这本书卖了几百万本
Tens of millions of copies sold from this book. 这里还有一本书
Or here is another book that I found. 这本书或许不错
Now the book,the book may be great. 我得承认我还没有读过
I haven't read it- I have to admit. 但先看看 《小步迈向幸福 现在》
But look at it- "Small Steps to Big Happiness.NOW!" 我们又迫不及待了 说的是专注于目标
Again,we can't wait.It's about the destination. 而不是专注于努力 旅途 人格
It's not about the hard work,the journey,the character, 还有所需的改变
change that needs to take place. 还有别的
And there is something else. 还有别的导致完美主义的因素
There is something else that leads to perfectionism. 这是一个你们已经读到过的研究结果
And this is the research that you have already read about. 这是由Carol Dweck完成的出色研究
And this is work done by,great work done by Carol Dweck, 她现在在斯坦福大学工作
who is now at Stanford. 这就是她的研究成果
Here is her study. 因为
Because you see, 她所描述的是 不是所有的赞美都是好的
what she illustrates is that not all praise is good. 对一个孩子说 你很棒 你很出色
Telling a kid you are wonderful,you are terrific,you are great, 不吝赞美之词
no matter what indiscriminately- 你太聪明了 你真是惊人 我的小爱因斯坦
you are so smart,you are so amazing,my little Einstein- 这也不总是好的
that's not always good. 长期来看这可能也是有害的
That may be harmful in the long run. 这也会导致完美主义的基模
And it may,it may create the perfectionism schema. 那么我和你们分享一下她的研究成果吧
So let me share with you one of her studies. 我想你们已经读过了
And again,I think you've already read this. 她所做的就是找到一些十岁的孩子
So what she did was going to group of 10 years old 然后把他们随机分成两组
and randomly divided them into two groups. 第一组孩子都做了道题
The first group did a puzzle 他们都每个人独立完成了
which they completed successfully,each one individually. 到最后 对每一个完成的孩子
And at the end,for each one when he or she completed the puzzle, 她都说"你真聪明伶俐"
she would say,"wow.You are so intelligent.So smart." 当然 孩子们都感觉不错
And of course,they felt good about it.Terrific. 第二组做的是同一道题 做完了 做的不错
The second group did the exact same puzzle- succeeded; did well. 结束后 她说
And at the end of it,she said, "你真努力 你很认真"
"wow.You put so much effort into it.You worked so hard." 这随机分成的两组孩子
Again,randomly divided into these two groups. 一组是"聪明伶俐" 一组是"努力认真"
One- "smart and intelligent"; one- "effort,hard work". 然后她开始第二部分的研究
And she had a second part of the study. 第二部分
That second part: 两组孩子要选两道题
the participant had to choose between two puzzles. 他们被告知其中一道很简单
One puzzle they were told was relatively easy- 他们可以很好地完成
one they could do well. 另一道非常之困难
The other one was extremely hard, 但是他们能够从中学到许多
but they could really learn a lot from it. 那组被称赞
From the group that was told that 聪明伶俐的孩子里
they were smart or smart and intelligent, 五成孩子选了简单的题目
50 percent chose the easy one; 五成孩子选择了可以学到很多的难题
50 percent chose the hard one where they could learn a lot. 那组被称赞努力认真的孩子里
From the group that was told that they were hard-working, 九成孩子选择了
that they put in a lot of effort,90 percent chose the hard one, 他们能学到很多的难题
the one that they could learn from. 这就是研究的第二部分
This was the part two of the study. 第三部分
Part three. 这次她让孩子们做
She brought them in again,and this time had them take, 一道非常难的题
or do a puzzle which was very difficult, 这题基本上是无法解答的
which was essentially unsolvable. 她想看看两组孩子的反应
And she wanted to see the reaction of the two groups. 被告知他们很聪明
The group that was told how smart they were, 很伶俐的那一组
how intelligent they were, 他们没有坚持多久
that group didn't persist much 并且非常沮丧
and experienced a lot of frustration 并且很快就开始放弃了
and would give up very quickly on that puzzle. 与此相反 被告知努力认真的
In contrast,the group that was told earlier that 那一组孩子
they worked hard and that they put in a lot of effort, 他们更能坚持并且享受解题的过程
persisted much more and actually enjoyed the process, 即使到最后他们都没能解开这道题
even though they didn't end up solving the puzzle. 但是他们享受这个过程 并且更加努力
But they enjoyed the process and they worked harder. 看看这微小的操纵带来的结果
Look at this slight manipulation. 简简单单的一个句子"你真聪明"
Simply one sentence- "oh you are so smart!" "你真努力"
"Oh you are working so hard!" 一句话带来了这么明显的不同
One sentence lead to this significant difference. 用她的话来说 "重视努力让孩子拥有
In her words- "Emphasizing effort gives a child a variable 一个他自己能掌控的变量
that they can control. 这能让他们认为自己能掌控自己的成功
They come to see themselves as in control of their success. 强调自然的天赋
Emphasizing natural intelligence 让孩子们无法掌控成功
takes it out of the child’s control, 这不会给孩子提供面对失败的方法
and it provides no good recipe for responding to a failure." 事实上当你仅仅注重于天赋的时候
Essentially what happens when you focus only on the intelligence, 你就是在制造完美主义的基模
on how smart you are,you are creating the perfectionist schema, 而不是专注于
as opposed to a schema that 旅途当中 努力的基模
focuses on the journey,effort,hard work. 她继续说道
She continues- "如果你称赞孩子的智力 当他们失败时
"When you praise kids' in telligence and then they fail, 他们会认为自己不再聪明
they think they're not smart anymore, 然后失去对于眼前工作的兴趣
and they lose interest in their work. 相反 那些被称赞努力的孩子
In contrast,kids praised for effort show no impairment 在困难面前不会气馁 甚至更有动力
and often are energized in the face of difficulty." 这两种方式造成了多么明显的不同
What a difference just based on these two approaches. 被称赞智力的人会产生这样的基模
Person who is praised for their intelligence creates this schema- 要么我很聪明 要么我就不聪明
either I'm intelligent or I'm not. 我很畏惧不聪明
And I'm afraid of not being intelligent, 所以我就选择容易一点的任务吧
so I'll choose the easier task. 当我无法做到的时候 这就是攻击
And when I can't do something,it's an attack, 是对于我的基模的侮辱 没错吧
it's an insult on my schema,right? 这是对于直线的偏离
It's a deviation from this straight narrow. 相对的 如果努力才是最重要的
In contrast,if effort is most important, "好的 让我试试看吧"
"OK,let me see what's around the corner here." "我学到了很多 这真有意思"
"Hey I'm learning a lot now.This is wonderful.This is fun." 因为 一个是"既定思维模式"如Dweck所说
Because with one,it's "a fixed mindset",in Dweck's words. 而另一个
And in the other, 是种可拓展的 时刻改变和发展的思维模式
it's the malleable,changing,ongoing,developing mindset. 一个是 畏惧失败 因为我想聪明
One- there is fear of failure,cause I want to be smart. 被人称赞聪明很有意思
It's fun being called smart and intelligent. 我不想威胁到这个基模
I don't want to threaten the schema. 相对的是 努力的 重视过程的
Versus working hard,focusing on the process, 当追求卓越的基模
when the excellence schema 成为惯常做法
becomes the dominant modus operandi.OK. 那么我们如何克服完美主义呢
So how do we overcome perfectionism? 如果我们确实有这个问题怎么办
What do we do about it if we have it? 要记住 根本就没有完美的完美主义者
And again,remember there's no perfect perfectionist. 也没有完美的追求卓越者
There is no perfect person committed to excellence. 你们必须选择你能快乐的生活方式
You need to choose in your life where you are happy, 选择你认为能够更加快乐的生活方式
and where you think you can be happier. 不会有现成的答案摆在你面前
This may not even speak to you. 对你而言可能只是有趣的学术理论
This for you may be just interesting academically, 或者是非常个人化的原因
or it may be deeply personal. 那么我们该怎么更多地采用卓越的基模呢
So how do we become more and more of the excellence schema? 首先 是自我认知 在于自我了解
First,it is about self-awareness.It's about understanding. 对我来说 明白 "我太过于有自卫性了
For me,a big breakthrough was understanding 我不想再这样了"是一个大突破
"hey I'm actually defensive and I don't want to be defensive." 因为我知道这会伤害亲密的人际关系
Because I know that it hurts intimacy and relationships 并且从那时候我开始在这上面努力
and that's when I started the real work on it. 并且有所进步
And that has improved, 并且在将来仍将继续提升我的人际关系
and continues to improve my relationships. 或者"看看我有多么畏惧失败
Or "look at my reaction to failure. 我有多么害怕听到个不字
Look how afraid I am of hearing a no. 看看我有多么害怕被拒绝
Look how afraid I am of being rejected. 看看我有多害怕应对与尝试"
Look how afraid I am of coping and trying." 就应该意识到它
So being aware of it. 如果你想让你的网球技术进步
I mean,if you want to improve your forehand in tennis, 你必须首先明白你想要进步的是什么
you first need to be aware of what it is that you want to improve 这就是第一步 说起来容易做起来难
So that's the first step.And that's easier said than done. 我来给你们介绍一个简短的例子
Let me show you a quick example of someone 是关于一个不完全了解自己的弱点的人的
who perhaps is not fully aware of her weaknesses. 视频：威尔和格蕾丝 第三季第十集
[Video: Will and Grace S3EP10] 你好 Jackie Brown
KAREN: Hey,Jackie Brown. 为什么没有咖啡了
JACK: Why isn't there any coffee?! 和你没有老婆和三个孩子的原因相同
KAREN: Same reason why you don't have a wife and three kids. 上帝决定的
It's the way God wants it. 该死的 这可是间办公室 应该有咖啡的
JACK: Damn it,this is an office! There should be coffee! 嗨 嗨
KAREN: Hey,hey,hey,hey,hey! 为什么不把你的怒气留在卧室里呢
Why don't you save your anger for the bedroom,where it belongs? 为什么你不去见你的咖啡小爱人呢
Why don't you go see your little coffee cutie,huh? 你的拿铁小情人 疯子先生
Your latte lover.Mr.Jock-full-of-nuts. 他辞职了 好吧
JACK: He quit,all right? 这是什么意思 你在审问我吗
What is this? The freaking inquisition? 难道想喝咖啡时 就不能好好的喝一杯热咖啡吗
Can't a guy have a nice,hot cup of coffee when he wants, 还是说我们都住在"茶之国度"里
or do we all live in "Tea Land" 只要提到"咖啡"就是犯罪
where it's a capital crime to even say the word "coffee"? 好了 神经质 冷静一点
KAREN: Ok,jitterbug,get a hold of yourself. 别让我冷静一点 我很好
JACK: Don't tell me to get a hold of myself.I'm fine! 好吧 或许你想照照镜子
KAREN: Ok,you may wanna take a look in the mirror 因为你看起来有点疯 好吗
because you got a little crazy on your face.Ok? 我的天啊
JACK: Oh,my God. Karen 我到底是怎么了
Karen,what's happening to me? 好吧 我不是专家
KAREN: Well,I'm no expert, 但我觉得你是犯瘾了
but I think you have a little addiction problem. 别把眼泪滴在台布上
No tears on the damask. 犯瘾 不 不
JACK: Addiction? Oh,no.No,no! 我可没上瘾 多谢你了
I don't have an addiction,thank you very much. - 好的 好的   - 我没事 我没事
KAREN: Ok,ok.JACK: I'm fine,I'm fine. 好了 好了 都结束了
KAREN: Ok,ok,it's over. 现在听我说 [Karen拿起药片]
Now,listen to me.[KAREN GETS OUT A PILL.] 首先你要做的就是承认自己的问题
The first thing you have to do is admit that you have a problem. [Karen把药片放进酒里搅拌]
[KAREN SWIRLS THE PILL IN HER MARTINI.] 因为如果你连症状都不能发觉
Because if you can't even recognize the signs... [Karen把药片吞了]
[KAREN DROPS THE WET PILL INTO HER MOUTH.] 那你就真的糟糕了
Then you are really in sorry shape. [Karen用酒送服药片]
[KAREN WASHES DOWN THE PILL.] Oh,mmm! 你怎么对我这么好呢
[TO THE MARTINI GLASS] Why are you so good to me? Karen 我办不到 我真的上瘾了
JACK: Karen,I can't do it.I'm hooked on the junk. 那么甜心 如果有作用的话 我就和你一起吧
KAREN: Well,honey,if it'll help you,I'll do it with you,ok? 我也戒咖啡了
I'll kick coffee,too. 是啊 这不简单 但是每当我早上起床时
Yeah! It won't be easy,but every morning when I wake up, 我只要习惯直接喝掉我的百利甜酒就好
I'll just have to get used to drinking my Bailey's straight. 那仍然会是起床最好的一刻
It'll still be the best part of waking up. 好的Karen 我们一起能做到的
JACK: Ok,Karen.Ok.Together we can do this. 让我再喝一杯
Let me just have one last cup. 不行
KAREN: No. 半杯
JACK: Half a cup. 不行
KAREN: No. 你喝一杯然后我舔你的舌头怎么样
JACK: How about you drink a cup and I'll lick your tongue? 很诱人 但是不行 过来吧
KAREN: [BEAT] Tempting,but no.Ok,come here.Right here. Karen 小羊们什么时候才能不叫啊
JACK: Oh,Karen,when will the lambs stop screaming? 不管是要应对上瘾问题
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:So whether it's dealing with addiction 还是对于生活中别的问题 完美主义
or dealing with any issue in our lives,perfectionism, 还是要改善什么 第一步就是要有意识
or whether it's improving something,first step is awareness. 第二步是 还有五分钟就完
Second step is- there is 5 more minutes,by the way, 那些看着钟的同学 那钟快了五分钟
those of you who are looking at this clock- it's 5 minutes fast. 或是四分钟 还有四分钟就完 专注于对努力的嘉奖
Or 4 more minutes.4 more minutes.Focus on a reward effort. Carol Dweck向我们展示的
What Carol Dweck showed was 就是当我们专注于努力的时候
when we focus on efforts,people's effort, 我们就能够改变那种根深蒂固的基模
we are able to change schema that has been engrained there, 即便这种基模已经存在了多年
and that has been there very often for years. 所以对我们自己 或者对别人
So with ourselves,or with other people, 我们应专注于旅途
it's about focusing on the journey, 专注 并不时地嘉奖自己
focusing on and rewarding ourselves at times, 甚至是嘉奖自己的失败 自己的尝试
even for failure,for trying. 在几个小时内 如Carol Dweck所见
And within a few hours,what Carol Dweck has seen, 告诉人们他们的心是可以拓展的
teaching people that their mind is malleable, 告诉他们神经可塑性 并非已经定型
teaching them actually about neuro plasticity that is not a fix, 我们仍可以作出改变
we can bring about change. 积极的接受
Active acceptance. Karen Horney
Karen Horney, 我认为她是幸福学创始人之一
whom I consider one of the mothers of positive psychology 她在神经症领域做了很多工作
has done a lot of work on neurosis. 她研究所得的其中一点是神经症
One of the thing that she found was that neurosis 它从来不会消失
that we have never really goes away. 它总是我们的一部分
It's always part of us. 它会变得更加可控制 但是总是存在
It becomes more manageable,but it's always there. 而极度的完美主义也是一种神经症
And perfectionism at the extreme is a form of neurosis. 所以关键就是接受它
So the thing is to accept that it will always be... 我总会有完美主义倾向 但是这没关系
I always have the tendency for perfectionism and it's OK. 但是 在以前
However,whereas before, 我有着极度的完美主义
I was here on the extreme of perfectionism; 现在我更加接近追求卓越的极致
now I'm much closer to the excellence extreme. 这是持续一生的 是不断进行的一个过程
And it's a life long...It's an on-going process. 这是不断进行的一个过程
It's an on-going process. 所以现在的关键就是接受
And the key here is to accept that 它一直都是我们生活的一部分这个事实
it will always be part of one's life and then to say, 然后问 "好的 那我该怎么办"
"all right,so what do I do now?" 换句话说就是采取行动
In other words,it is about then taking action. 行为
Behavior. 所以举例来说 就是怎么应对 把自己置于线上
So for example,it's about coping,putting ourselves on the line. 我最初所做的
What I did initially, 在我留意到我的完美主义与自卫性的时候
when I first realized that perfectionism and my defensiveness, 我会撇开我的做法并且请求批评
I would go out of my way and solicit criticism. 我会问别人"给我点反馈吧"
And I would ask people,"so you know give me feedback about it." 当我收到负面的反馈的时候
And when I received negative feedback, 和我的直线有所偏离的时候
things that were actually deviations from the straight line, 我就阻止自己回击
I literally held myself from you know pouncing back. 你们也知道 对于完美主义者来说
You know the best form of defenses 最好的防守就是进攻
is attack very often for perfectionist. 慢慢地我就习惯了 我没那么有自卫性了
And slowly I got used to it.And I became far less defensive. 我得以创造更高层次的亲密关系
And I was able to create much higher levels of intimacy. 或者我开始尝试别的领域
Or I put myself on the line in other areas, 那里我可能会遭到否定
where I potentially would experience a no. 让我以一个故事来结尾吧
So let me end with a quick story. 她的名字叫Brittaney 她是一个展示女郎
Her name is Brittaney.She was a show girl.At least to me she was. 我们在大学第一周时认识 我对她一见钟情
We met freshman week.And we really hit it off. 我们几乎整个第一周都在一起
We spent almost the entire freshman week out. 到那一周的周末
And at the end of the freshman week, 为了克服我的完美主义
wanting to overcome my perfectionism, 我约她出来 她拒绝了
I asked her out.And she said no. 这让我很吃惊 很受伤 但是她确实拒绝了
It surprised me,def me,hurt me.But she said no. 在大学第二年 我们又见面了
My sophomore year,we met again. 我再次约她出来 她又拒绝了
And again,I asked her out.And this time she said no. 第三年 在年末的时候 我和另一个人约会了
Junior year,toward the end of my junior year,I dated someone. 所以Brittaney就出局了
So Brittaney was out of the equation. 然后我们又见面了 在我大四的时候
And then we met again- my senior year. 我们谈了些有趣的话题
We had an amazing conversation. 那时候我已经开始学习心理学了
By that time I already studied psychology. 我也可以读懂她的身体语言
I could also read her body language. 她经常这么弄她的头发
She did a lot of this with her hair. 然后我知道她确实很喜欢我
And I knew that she really liked me. 然后我约她出来 她拒绝了
And I asked her out.And she said no. 然后我就还留在这里和你们在一起
And I'm still here with you. 这就是个很重要的学习过程
And that was an important learning process. 学会失败 或败于学习
Learn to fail or fail to learn. 我们下周见
I'll see you in next week. 



 Chapter 15: 享受过程


今天有人有消息宣布吗 没有
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Any announcement today? Anyone? No. 好的 早上好
OK.Good morning. 我们今天要把完美主义讲完
What we are going to do today is finish up on perfectionism 然后开始讲精神肉体
and then move on to the mind body. 这个学期对我来说挺不错的
This semester for me has been going great. 没有什么东西
There are very few things that 让我后悔做过
I regret about not having done this semester, 不过下次我还想挑战点别的
but there is one thing that I will change next time 教这门课时 我现在知道了
when I teach the class,that I already know of now, 应该更早讲精神肉体的
is have the lecture on the mind body earlier. 因为这个话题十分重要
Because it is such an important topic. 它是如此根本而且基础 因此当我意识到
It is so foundational,so basic that when I realized that- 在这个学期很早的时候就意识到
and that was earlier on this semester that 我应该早点讲
I should have had it earlier, 我那时就开始停止介绍身体锻炼
I started already to plug for physical exercise, 开始讲"念"的概念
to talk about mindfulness, 从较低一点的层次来介绍它
to introduce it a little bit on a lower level of the spiral. 今天 在一两个月之后
So today,you know,a month or two- too late perhaps, 我们要再讲讲精神和肉体的联系
we are going to introduce the mind body connection, 身体的健康
physical health. 首先我们先把完美主义讲完
But first,let me introduce- let me finish up on perfectionism. 上节课我们讲到了两个模型
So remember last time we talked about the two models- 完美主义的基模
the schema of the perfectionist, 一条从A到B的直线
a straight line from point A to point B 以及追求卓越的基模
versus the schema of the person committed to excellence 更像是蜿蜒曲折的螺旋上升
which is much more meandering spiral kind-of journey.And 有些人昨天在办公时间来问我
a couple of people yesterday in office hours asked the question, "区别到底在哪里"
"so what is really the difference?" 我们可以用无意义追逐目标的人来类比
So you gave us the model of rat racer- 还记得那个72岁的人吗
you know that person- remember- who at the age of 72, 他达到了很高的地位
gets to being,quite literally on top of the world, 管理着世界的中心
overlooking central park 在承受了一生的压力
and then being informed after a life of constant stress, 不停地追逐到达B点
constantly living the future in point B, 而不是享受当下 享受旅途之后被告知
not enjoying the present,the journey, 退休的时候到了
is being told it is time to retire. 我问你们一个简单的问题
And I asked you a simple question, "你想要怎样的生活"
"what kind of life do you want for yourself?" 那么另一种模型是怎样的呢 积极的模型是怎样的
So what is the alternative model? What is the positive model? 积极的模型从外表上看来似乎一模一样
Now the positive model from the outside may look exactly the same 可能也是一个充满雄心壮志的人
It may be a person who is extremely ambitious, 极度勤奋刻苦的人
a person who is extremely hard working, 可能是个投资银行家 或者是个医生
a person who is an investment banker or a doctor, 或者律师 老师 或者在流浪者之家工作
or a lawyer,or a teacher,or working at a homeless shelter. 从外表上看可能完全一样
It may look the exactly same from the outside. 但其内在则是迥然相异
From the inside,it is radically different. 怎么个迥然相异法呢
How is it radically different? 区别在于这个追求卓越的人
In that the person who is on the excellence side, 也许同样充满雄心壮志 有同样的目标
may be as ambitious,may have the same goals, 也可能达到了同样的目标
may reach the same goals. 然而这个人同时享受这个旅程
However,that person also enjoys the journey. 这就是区别所在
That is the difference. 是的 他或她会进入名校
So yes,he or she gets into a top school, 进入他们非常想进的学校
a school that they really wanted to get into. 在学校里他们非常勤奋刻苦
And at school they work extremely hard. 但同时他们也知道 他们几乎可以
However,they also learn it that they are able to,mostly- 不是完全 但几乎可以
there's no 100 percent here- but mostly, 享受他们在学校的所有时光 同样的起伏坎坷
enjoy their time in school,with the same ups and downs, 同样的兴衰变迁 但他们享受这个过程
the vicissitudes- natural- but enjoy school 然后获得他们想要的工作
and then get into the job they really wanted 或者他们想要的工作之一 然后继续努力工作
or one of the job they wanted,and work extremely hard there, 充满雄心壮志 每周工作80个小时
and be ambitious,and work the 80 hour weeks. 然而这个人同样享受整个过程
However,that person also overall enjoys the journey. 然后他们享受下一个旅途 和别人合作
And then they enjoy the next step and being associate, 成为别人的搭档 当上营销总监之类的
being a partner,and being the MD or whatever it is. 唯一的区别就在于他们享受这个过程
The only difference is that they enjoy the journey. 我还可以举出一些实例
Now I have a few role models that I know. 其中之一就是我的前室友 他是个投资银行家
One of them is my ex-roommate,who is an investment banker. 我们一起上大学 也是96届的
We were in college together,also class of 96. 毕业之后 由于其经济学的专业
After graduating,being an economist major, 给一个著名的对冲基金工作
worked for one of the premier hedge funds. 之后他就回到哈佛 获得法律博士和工商管理硕士的双学位
After that,came back to Harvard,got his JD MBA. 学业非常优秀
Did extremely well here as a JD MBA. 之后就获得了所有他想要的机会
Had all the offers that he wanted after. 他又选择了另一家对冲基金
Chose another hedge fund. 之后他又自立门户 和一些朋友一起开了一家公司
And went off on his own and started a firm with a few friends. 当我和他谈起投资银行时
Now when I talked to him about investment banking 我对此了解很少
which I know very little about, 我对投资银行表现得很兴奋
I get very excited about investment banking. 因为他的兴奋能感染我
Because his excitement is contagious. 他每天都期待着工作
He looks forward to work every day. 他工作的时间也很长
And he works long hours. 他就是一个追求卓越的例子
So he is a model of a person committed to excellence. 虽然从表面上看
Even though from the outside, 就和我之前描述的形象
it may look the exact same as the "caricature" 一模一样
that I depicted earlier. 因此不是要我们失去雄心壮志
So it's not about losing our ambition. 也不是变得没有竞争力
It's not about not being competitive. 如果那能让你快乐的话
If that is what makes you happy. 这只是让你们学会享受过程
It is simply learning to also enjoy the process, 朝着你认为有意义的目的地
the step on the way to a destination 所迈出的步子才是最重要的
that you deem valuable that is important to you. 而问题在于 "我们如何克服完美主义
Now the question is,"how do we overcome this perfectionism, 这个解不开的结呢"
this constant knot in our stomach? 我们如何克服活在未来中的感觉
How do we overcome this living in the future, 因为害怕失败而害怕当下的感觉
being afraid of the present because what if I fail? 我讲了一些方法
And I started to describe a few methods: 首先是认识它
the first one is being aware of it- 认识到我想改变什么
being aware of what I want to change 我想保持什么
and what I want to maintain. 还记得Ellen Langer的研究吗
Remember Ellen Langer's study- 关于更确切地了解
about getting a more nuance understanding 我到底想改变什么
of what it is that I want to change. 因为长久以来
Because for very long time, 我都是个完美主义者
I couldn't,couldn't become less of a perfectionist 因为总是想着完美 总是想着成功
because associated with perfectionism,with also success, 我的潜意识让我没法摆脱完美主义
my subconscious were stopping me from letting go of perfectionism 因为我会认为那就意味着
because I thought that also means 把宝宝和洗澡水一起冲走了 也就是成功被冲走了
throwing out baby with bath water,i.e.my success. 但现在我更确切地了解了完美主义
But now that I have a more nuance understanding of perfectionism 它就是一种对失败的无法抑制的恐惧
which is an incapacitating fear of failure, 我明白了我仍然可以充满抱负
and I understand that I can still be as ambitious 而无需放弃成功
and not give up my success, 同时享受这个过程 这是更好的理解
and yet enjoy the process- that's a better understanding. 这样我就能继续前进
And now I can move forward. 因此第一步就是认识
So the first step is awareness. 在我们获得了认识之后
After we have awareness, 就是Dweck关于工作回报的概念
it's about going back to Dweck's notion of rewarding effort. 记住Carol Dweck能够在短短几小时内
Remember,Carol Dweck was able to change students 就改变学生和成人的思维模式
and adult's mind set with as little as a few hours. 有时候
And sometimes, 这些思维模式在他们非常小的时候就已经奠定了
this mind set has been set in them from a very young age. 思维模式是固定的 还是可塑的
The fixed versus the malleable mind set. Carol Dweck通过教他们可塑性
And Carol Dweck by teaching them the malleability, 神经的可塑性 我们的大脑是时刻在变化的
the neuroplasticity- how our brain constantly changes 通过教他们关注过程 关注所付出的努力
by teaching them that to focus on the journey,on the effort, 而不是结果 或者最后的成就
as opposed to the outcomes,as opposed to the intelligence, 从而改变他们的思维模式
was able to change their mind set. 我们自己也可以关注我们付出的努力
So in ourselves we can focus on a reward on our effort, 关注过程本身 不管它是失败还是成功
on our process,whether it's failure or success. 主动地去接受
Active acceptance. 它将永远是我们的一部分
It will always be part of us. 完美主义者经常会做的一件事
You know one of the things that perfectionist very often do 当他们意识到自己是完美主义者时
when they realize they are perfectionists, 这让他们很难受
and that is hurting them: 他们就用完美主义的方式来克服完美主义
they apply the perfectionist approach to overcoming perfectionism 也就是说
which means, 我会成为一个完美的追求卓越的人
I will become perfect person who is committed to excellence. 这不会起作用的 只是更进一步的完美主义
That doesn't work.That's just more perfectionism. 但主动的接受意味着
But what active acceptance is about saying, "好吧 我仍旧是个完美主义者
"OK.So I'm not...So I'm still a perfectionist. 我可能永远都会有这方面的性格
I will always probably have part of it in me. 这没关系 没有关系"
And that's OK.And that's OK." 佛教徒会说的一句话是 通常情况下
One of the things that Buddhists talk about is that very often, 我们面临的最大挑战
our greatest challenges, Karen Horney会称之为"神经官能症"
what Karen Horney would call "our neurosis"- 不管是完美主义 对失败的恐惧
whether it's perfectionism,the fear of failure, 还是时不时出现的愤怒 焦虑
whether it's anger that comes up once in a while,anxiety, 不管我们的问题是什么
whatever it is that we have- that "issue". 佛教徒很巧妙地重新定义了它
The Buddhists cognitively reframe it and say, "我们要将其视为一种工具 一种成长的工具
"we need to look at it as a tool,as a tool for growth, 一种了解自己的方式
as a way of learning about ourselves, 使我们深入挖掘自己 然后得以成长"
digging deep inside ourselves and growing." 要这样看它 这是个成长的机会
So to look at it- OK,so this is an opportunity for growth, 了解自我 反省自身的机会
for personal learning,for reflection, 能够更设身处地为别人着想的机会 无论它是什么
for more empathy toward other people- whatever it is. 将其视为一种工具
But to look at it as a tool. 接受它 然后行动
Accept it.And then act. 有助教能查查看它到底怎么了吗
Can one of the TFs- do you mind seeing what it is,please? 谢谢 John
Thanks,John. 下一步 在接受它之后 我们就去改变它
The next thing,after we accept it,we go ahead and change it. 我们要通过建立行为来改变它
And we go ahead and change it by introducing behavior. 这里的关键在于行为
The key issue here is behavior. 我上节课讲过的一件我做过的事
Now one of the things that I did as I told you last time 就是向别人寻求反馈
was started to solicit feedback from people, 寻求批评
started to solicit criticism. 一开始我要控制自己不去回答
Initially,literally I need to catch myself from responding, 不去顶嘴反驳
from attacking back. 为什么 因为批评是对直线箭头的偏离
Why? Because criticism is the deviation from a straight narrow, 偏离那个基模
from that schema. 但我逐渐习惯了 这真的帮到了我
But over time I got used to it.It actually helped me. 我现在更能够包容批评
And now I'm much open to criticism. 然而
Still, 我有时仍会想回答 想顶嘴反驳
sometimes catch myself when I want to respond and attack back. 但总体来说 我通过改变态度的行为变得更好
But overall,I got better through behavior changing attitude. 还有一点 使自己更经常处于水平线上
Something else- putting myself on the line more, 包括我跟你们讲的关于Brittany的故事
whether it's the story that I told you about Brittany, 连续说了几次不
who said no a few consecutive times. 但没关系 她说不
And that's OK.So she said no. 我还在这 我还活着
I'm still here.I survived. 屡战屡败 屡败屡战
Learn to fail or fail to learn. 下一步 我们不一定要外在地表现出行为
Next,we don't always have to act out in the world; 我们也可以在内心中模拟
we can also act in our internal simulator- 你的思想是无法分辨
the mind doesn't know the difference 现实和想象的区别的
between the real thing and the imaginary thing. 因此我可以想象自己 幻想自己
And therefore,I can imagine myself,see myself, 就像一个追求卓越的人一样
acting as a person committed to excellence. 比如说在上课之前
So for example,before teaching, 我想象的一件事就是
one of the things that I visualize 假想我自己站在台上 感觉很轻松
is seeing myself there on the stage,feeling light, 冷静 并且很包容 换句话说
calm and accepting- in other words, 想象追求卓越的人会用的方式
a way that a person committed to excellence would,as opposed 而非总是害怕失败的完美主义者
to a perfectionist would be constantly afraid of failure. 你的大脑是不会知道有什么区别的
And the mind doesn't the know the difference 你的大脑需要一致性
and the mind looks for consistency. 因此我就能那样去做
And therefore,I'm able to be that way 或者更容易那样去做 因为我先幻想了
or much more likely to be that way because of the visualization. 同时冥想也会有所帮助
Also,meditation in and of itself helps. 我们可能会在周四讲到冥想
We'll talk about meditation- probably get to it on Thursday. 因为冥想能使我们处于冷静的状态
Cause meditation puts us in a state of mind of calm, 能够接受事物 是一种存在 而非一种行为
of acceptance,a state of being,as opposed to state of doing. 当我们作为一种存在时 我们就能活在当下
And when we are in a state of being,we are here and now, 我们就能享受过程
we are enjoying the process, 而不是总想着目的地
as opposed to constantly thinking about the destination, 以及如果我达不到这个目标会怎么样
and what will happen if I don't get to that destination. 周四我们会更深入地探讨
But more on that on Thursday. 这是我从Samuel Coleridge那里学来的方法
This is a technique,method that I learn from Samuel Coleridge, 一个英国的哲学家
the British philosopher, 活跃于18世纪末 19世纪初
late 18th century and the beginning of the 19th century, 影响了爱默生的哲学家之一
one of the philosophers who influence our Ralph Waldo Emerson. Coleridge本身是个完美主义者
And what Coleridge did- he had an issue with perfectionism 后来丘吉尔说完美主义
and perfectionism as Winston Churchill later on said "就是瘫痪"
"means paralysis"- 他在写作时就经历了这样的"瘫痪"
and he experienced this paralysis when he came to writing. 写作是他生命中最重要的一件事
Writing was the most important thing in his life. 但他就是没法写好
But he really couldn't write well. 因为他很害怕写不出那终极的文章
Because he was so afraid of not writing the ultimate essay, 或者终极的诗
or the ultimate poem. 所以他所做的是 他说 "在我生命的结尾
So here was what he did: he said,"well,at the end of my life, 我会写出我的巨著
I will write my magnum opus. 在那之前 一切都只是草稿"
Until then,everything is rough draft." 这让他得到解放
And that liberated him. 因为他不再焦虑了
Because he wasn't worried any more. 他再也不用想着写巨著
Now he never got to write his magnum opus. 而同时 他写出了无数优美的诗篇
But at the meantime,he wrote dozens of beautiful poems- 有些是英语中最美的文字
some of them the most beautiful in the English language 以及许多非常强有力的
and numerous very powerful, 具有影响的 结构精妙的文章
influential and beautifully crafted essays. 而他们都只是"草稿"
And they were all "rough drafts". 这样就没有压力了 这给了我很大的帮助
So there wasn't the pressure.This helped me a lot. 当我想到这个时 我说 "好吧
Because what I do when I thought about this,I said,"OK. 看看完美主义
So let's see one of the domains- 对我影响最深的一个领域吧
where perfectionism was very strong for me 因为这个领域对我很重要 就是教学"
because it was an important domain- was teaching." 我就对自己说 "好吧" 这是大约十年前的事了
Then I said to myself,"OK." And this was close to 10 years ago. 我说"二十年后 我会在名列前茅的
I said,"in 20 years,I'm going to have a leadership institute 学院中任教
in which I'm going to be teaching. 能开很棒的学术报告和研讨会
Amazing workshops and seminars and lectures. 在那之前 一切都只是草稿
Until then,everything is rough draft. 在那之前 一切都只是准备" 这真的起作用了
Until then,everything is preparation." And that took off... 我现在知道这是个心理游戏
Now I know this is a mental game. 我知道我是在骗自己
I mean I know I am "fooling myself". 因为12年后 等目标要到了的时候
Because in 12 years from now,when that goal is actually, 20年到了的时候
when I'm there 20 years later, 我会再定一个20年后的计划
I'm going to set another goal for 20 years later. 来解放我自己 这样我才能享受当下
To liberate me so that I can enjoy the here and now. 这样我才能享受过程
So that I can enjoy the process, 而不是执着于要变得完美
as opposed to be stuck on it having to be perfect, 毫无半点瑕疵 这是永远无法达到的
flawless everyday experience,which it can never be. 因此制定一个终极目标可以让你解放
So end goal can often be liberating. 这是铂金法则
The Platinum Rule. 黄金法则就是
So the Golden Rule: "己所不欲勿施于人"
do not do unto others what you would not have done unto yourself" 或者说"己所欲方施于人"
Or "do unto others what you would unto yourself." 这是当今很多道德体系和宗教信仰的基础
The foundation of most moral systems,most religions today. 铂金法则就是取自黄金法则
The Platinum Rule is taking the Golden Rule 再对其进行小小的修饰
and switching it around. 它说的是
And what it says is, "人所不欲勿施于己"
"do not do unto yourself what you would not do unto others." 或者说"人所欲方施于己"
Or rather "do unto yourself what you do unto others." 如果你的一个好朋友 你非常在乎的一个人
Now if a good friend of you,someone you really care about 或者家庭成员失败了 没做好
or a family member fails and doesn't do well, 你会怎样对待这个人 你会排斥这个人吗
what you'll do with that person? Do you reject that person? "你考试只得了个B"
"Oh you just got a B on this exam." 或者"你竟然没赢得比赛"
Or "you didn't win this competition." 你会这样对待他们吗 还是你会拥抱他们
Is that how you treat them? Or do you embrace them? 你们会因此少爱他们一点吗 当然不会
And do you love them any less for it? Of course not. 那么为什么我们要将这些不现实的
Then why do we apply these unrealistic 毫无共鸣的标准强加给我们自己呢
and non-compassionate standards to ourselves? 达赖喇嘛
Now the Dalai Lama, 当他刚开始大量接触西方文化时
when he was first introduced to a lot of Western culture, 被一样东西困扰了
was baffled by one very particular thing: 就是我们用的一个词 同情
by our usage of a word,compassion. 同情这个词在藏语中叫"tsewe"
The word compassion in Tibetan is "tsewe", 拼为"t-s-e-w-e"
in English spelled "t-s-e-w-e". 这个词在藏语中的意思
The word in Tibetan means 既是同情他人 也是同情自己
compassion for others as well as for self. 所以他完全被英语中的概念搞糊涂了
And he was really taking back by the notion that in English 或者说在大多数西方文化 不仅是英语文化中
when we talk about,or in West in general- not just in English- 当我们说到同情时
when we talk about compassion, 我们是指对别人的同情
we talk about compassion for others. 他说"你们对自己没有同情
And he said,"how can you have compassion for others 又怎么能对别人有同情呢"
when you don't have compassion for yourself?" 自我是基础
The foundation is the self. 铂金法则
The Platinum Rule 就是说对我们自己也要有同情
is about having compassion for ourselves as well. 对待自己不能不同于对待别人
Not treating ourselves differently than we would others. 要有同样的标准
Holding...Having similar standards. 要像接受别人 我们所爱的人的失败一样 去接受
Accepting failure in the same way that we accepted in others, 我们自己的失败
in people we love. 为什么不呢 我们是如何帮助别人的
After all,why not? How do we help other people? 因为通常我们处于一段感情中时
Because very often when we are in relationships, 和完美主义者有感情的人
people are in relationships with a perfectionist or, 或者我们有个朋友是完美主义者的话
we know a friend of ours is a perfectionist, 我们如何去帮助别人
how do we help other people? 首先要搞清楚的一件重要的事就是
The first thing that is important to make very clear is that 帮助别人是非常困难的
it is extremely difficult to help other people 处理完美主义的问题
deal with perfectionism. 通常都要从内部着手
It mostly has to come from within. 他们必须要渴望改变
They have to want a change. 因为这是需要时间的
Because it takes time. 不是立竿见影的
Doesn't happen over night. 我从研究中 或者个人经历中了解到这一点
I know it from research or I know it from personal experience. 但我们还是能去帮助他人 即使知道这很困难
And yet,we can help,after accepting that it is difficult. 首先最重要的事就是树立榜样
The first most important thing to do is by example. 如果我能改变
If I can change, 成为一个追求卓越的人
and become more a person committed to excellence, 享受过程 即使失败也要庆祝
enjoy the journey,celebrate even failures, 即使偶尔挫折也要庆祝
even falling down once in a while. 那我就做出了榜样
Then I'm leading by example. 还记得那个实验吧
And remember that experiment,right? 人们更愿意照着你所做的去做 而不是你说的话
People do what you do,rather than what you say. 第二件事就是分享这个故事
Second thing to do is to tell stories about it, 也就是这门课
which is what this lecture is essentially, 上两节课所讲的内容
the last two lectures were about- 基本上是关于我个人如何从
mostly,personal stories of how I moved or am moving 完美主义者变为追求卓越者的故事
from being a perfectionist to being committed to excellence. 讲故事 互相分享
So telling stories,sharing. 再次强调分享和讲的区别
Again,the difference between sharing and telling: 分享 两者皆有收获 讲就只是单行道
sharing,both of us get; telling is one way street. 最后还有一种帮助别人的方式
And finally,another way to,to help other people 回忆一下Carol Dweck的研究
is remembering what Carol Dweck was all about. 工作回报 过程的回报
Rewarding effort.Rewarding the journey. 很容易陷入对结果的回报之中
It is so easy to fall into the track of rewarding outcome, 也很容易忘记回报过程
and so easy to forget to reward the journey. 我在抚养我的小孩时就觉得很困难
I know that's difficult in child rearing with my kids. 在感情之中也很难做到
And it's certainly difficult in a relationship. 作为上司或者朋友当然也很难
It's certainly difficult being the boss or a friend. 但一定要注意回报过程
But to really focus on rewarding the journey, 要指出来"这是个不错的尝试"
on pointing out "oh this was a great attempt" 或者"这真是太有趣了" 注重过程
or "this was so much fun doing it"- the process. 我想通过做一个
I want to end this lecture 对至今为止所讲内容的小小总结来结束这个话题
by introducing a mini summary of the course so far. 这是个技巧 一个很简单的技巧
This is a technique- quite a simple technique, 但我发现是个很有用的技巧
but a technique that I found very powerful. 因为它能够整合我们目前为止所见过的
Because what it does is synthesize a lot of what we discussed 所有内容
until now in the course. 我将这个技巧应用于各种困境中
And this specific technique I apply to difficult situations 当我在面对人生中很困难的一段时期 可能是很长的一段时期
when I'm facing periods in my life and it could be a long period 也可能是很困难的一天时
or one day that is very difficult for me. 当我感受到焦虑或压力
You know,when I'm experiencing anxiety or stress, 或者深深的失望时
or strong levels,or high levels of disappointment. 这是除了三个M之外的另一种选择
And this is the alternative in many ways to the three Ms- 还记得三个M吗 放大 减小
so remember the three Ms? Magnifying.Minimizing. 以及编造 发明
And Making-up,inventing. 三个P则是另一种选择
So the three Ps are the alternative. 第一个P就是准许自己为人
The first p is the Permission to be human. 如果我经历了困难
So if I experience a difficult experience,I have some... 我遇到了挫折
I go through a hard time. 第一步就是给自己许可证
The first step is to give myself permission 也就是说接受这样的感情
and that would mean accepting of the emotion, 接受这个困境 接受现实
accepting that is difficult,accepting reality. 它已经发生了
Something just happened; 我对此什么也做不了
there is nothing I can do about what had just happened. 能够改变的只有我对它的诠释
What can change is perhaps my interpretation of what had happened 这时我就会进入下一个层次
which is where I get to the next level. 到下一步
The next step. 也就是重建 将情况诠释为积极的
And this is reframing,interpreting the situation as Positive. 这就是积极者
And that would be the benefit finder. 这其中有什么闪光点
What's the silver lining here? 其中有什么成长的机会
What is the growth opportunity here? 所以如果我经历了困境
So if I am going through a very difficult time, 也许可以用佛教的眼光来看待
perhaps look at it through the Buddhist perspective and say, "这是成长的工具
"well,this is a tool for growth; 这可以帮助我更好地了解自己 了解他人
this will help me better understand myself as well as others, 成为一个更好的心理学家 成为一个更好的商人
become a better psychologist,become a better business person, 诸如此类
whatever it is. 再次发掘出失败中的闪光点 失败中的机会
Seeing it again,the silver lining,the opportunity in failure. 最后
And finally, 我们没怎么提到的一个非常重要的技巧
one very important technique that we didn't talk about much, 就粗略提到过的 就是分心
just in passing,is distracting,distraction; 将注意力转向别处
is looking toward other place. 这不一定是件好事
It's not always good.In fact, 我们下节课会讲到 有时执着于
we will talk about next time it's sometimes detrimental to stay 分析每种情感 感觉和想法 是有害的
and analyze every single emotion,feeling,thought that comes up. 反复思考并不一定有帮助
Ruminating in and of itself does not always help. 有时最好的方法
Sometimes the best thing to do 就是当消极的想法
is when a negative thought comes up, 或者负面的情绪出现时
or a negative feeling comes up 将我们的注意力转到别处去 比如说
is to distract ourselves from it by,for example, 听听音乐 跑个步
going to listen to a piece of music,going for a run, 和别人聊聊这件事或者别的事
talking to someone either about that or something else. 这和逃避是很不一样的
Now this is very different from avoiding. 因为这并不是说 "好吧
Because it is not about saying,"all right, 我一辈子不要再管这种事了"
I am not going to deal with any of the issues in my life." 这只是说如果某种情绪或想法反复出现
It's just saying that if there is a recurrent thought or feeling, 我永远都在徒劳地抗争
and I'm experiencing a Sisyphean battle against it- you know, 把石头推上去 然后又被推下来
pushing the stone up and being pushed down again, 上上下下
up and down again. 有时更好 更有用的方法是
Sometimes it is better,more helpful to just say, "好吧 我不要再反复想了 这没有意义
"OK,I'm not going to ruminate; it's pointless. 这个神经通路在我脑海中太强烈了
This neural pathway in my mind is being so reinforced. 不会有任何出路的" 然后说 "让我继续前进吧
It's not going anywhere." And then to say,"let me move on. 让我去听首好歌
Let me listen to a nice piece of music. 让我去跑个步 好让我能够真正忘记它"
Let me go for a run that will really help get my mind off this." 很经常地
And very often 跑步还能使我从全新的角度
what a run can do is also help me look at it in a different, 来看待这件事
through a different lens. 我们会更深入地探讨这个分心
And we'll talk about it,much more about this distraction, 因为差异非常微小 并不是逃避
because it's nuanced,meaning we are not about avoiding. 我们下节课
So we'll talk about it next, 周四讲到处理沮丧
on Thursday when we talk about dealing with depression 或者焦虑时 会用到冥想
or dealing with anxiety,using meditation, 用念来分心
using mindfulness as a kind of distraction. 但那也是一种积极对待的方式
But that's also one way of looking at the positive. 最后 第三个P是指换个角度
And finally,the third p is about taking Perspective. 这真的很重要吗
Is this really gonna matter? Richard Carlson写了一本很好的自助书
This is Richard Carlson's wonderful self-help book, "别为小事伤神 一切皆是小事"
"Don't Sweat the Small Stuff... and it's all Small Stuff". 我不完全同意后半句
Now I don't necessarily agree with the second- "一切皆是小事" 但很显然
"it's all small stuff",but certainly 许多生活中我们为之伤神的事都是小事
a lot of things that we sweat about in our lives are small stuff. 要不为小事伤神
Now the issue with not sweating the small stuff 就要问一个简单的问题 它在一年后会不会有影响
is asking a simple question: is this going to matter in a year? 或者更久...
Or in a grand... 从长远来看 它真的很重要吗
You know,in a large schema of things,does it really matter? 它真的值得我去担心 焦虑
Is it worth my worrying,and fretting, 为之沮丧 为之焦躁吗
and being depressed and upset and anxious about this now? 它在一年之后真的会有影响吗
Is this really going to matter in a year? 通常情况下都不会
And most of the times,it won't matter. 从另一方面说 有什么是真的重要的吗
The other side of this is that well,then does anything matter? 几年前 有个朋友问了我一个非常简单的问题
A few years ago,I was asked a very simple question by a friend. 他说
And he said,"you know,just..." 我们之前从来没聊过这个的 他是我很好的朋友
You know we haven't talked about before- this was a close friend. 但也没聊过 "你能告诉我心理成熟是什么吗
But..."Can you tell me what psychological maturity is? 通过你的研究
From your research, 你能想明白心理成熟到底是什么吗"
can you think about what psychological maturity is?" 就在这一霎那
And off-the-cuff, 就在当时 后来我又对这个定义做了些修饰
at that moment- over time I revise the definition a little bit- 我当时这么说 心理成熟
I said the following: Psychological maturity 就是根据自己的意愿转换角度的能力
is about the ability to willingly shift perspective. 我觉得这差不多是对的
And I think it's more or less right.Again, 基于这些关于转换角度的能力的研究
looking at the research about this ability to shift perspective. 为什么  这种转换角度的能力是什么
Why? Or what is this ability to shift perspective? 这就是我们希望沉浸在当下的
It's the ability when we want to be immersed in the here and now, 一种能力
in the present. 也正是我们退一步
And it's the ability to,when we want,take a step back, 时间和空间上都退一步 问这样的问题
zoom out both in time and in space,and ask the question, "它真的有影响吗 一年之后呢
"is this really going to matter? Or in a year? 或者更长远来看呢 它真的很重要吗"
Or in a grand schema of things,space? Is this really important?" 同时随心所欲地回来
And at the same time,go back almost at will. 能够灵活地将思绪拉回来
Have this flexibility to go back 沉浸于聆听一首美妙的歌
and be immersed when listening to a beautiful piece of music, 或者和我们所爱的人一起
or spending time with people we love. 说起来容易 做起来难
And again,it's easier said than done. 但逐渐我们可以通过冥想来训练我们的思想
But over time,we can train our mind through meditation, 通过对事物进行认知重建
through cognitively reframing things. 我们可以训练我们的思想
We can train our mind 使其能够按照我们的意愿来转换
to be able to make that shift almost at will. 我来给你们举个应用三个P的例子吧
So let me give you an example of the three Ps applied. 这是刚开学时发生在我身上的事
So this happened to me at the beginning of the semester, 大约开学后两个星期
about two weeks into the semester. 我要带我的女儿Shirell去托儿所
I was...I had to take Shirell,my daughter to day care. 我就要迟到了 迟了很多
And I was running late.I was running really late. 你们知道我上课前一般都会去健身
And you know what I like to do before lectures is to work out. 我意识到我没时间去健身了
Now I realized I was not going to have time to work out, 我甚至几乎没时间复习备课笔记
I hardly had any time to go over the lecture notes that 我在上课前都会复习两遍
I do twice in the morning before the lecture. 于是我很沮丧 很有压力
And I got upset.And I became stressed. 然后我说 "就用用三个P吧"
Then I said,"OK.Let's take the three Ps and apply them." 第一个P 许可 接受
First P,permission.Acceptance. 我对自己说 "你压力很大 你很沮丧
I said to myself,"OK.So you are stressed.So you are upset. 这些都没关系
It's OK to be upset.It's OK to be stressed. 即使你是教积极心理学的 也没关系"
Even if you do teach positive psychology.It's all right." 我说的第二件事就是尊重现实
The second thing that I said- respect for reality. 这是学期刚开始的时候
This is the beginning of the semester. 很多事情都碰在一起
A lot of things are happening. 我们几个星期前刚从以色列回来
We had just arrived from Israel a couple of weeks earlier. 要倒时差 还有小孩要照顾
A little bit of jet lag.The kids. 尊重现实 现实就是这样
Respect for reality.It is what it is. 然后我转向第二个P 积极性
And then I moved on to positive. 有什么好处呢 第一个好处就是
So what's the benefit here? So the first benefit is- well, 我要更仔细地想想我能简化的地方
I need to think more about where I can simplify, 我可以说不的地方
what I can say no to. 做少一点而非做多一点 这是很显然的一个好处
Do less rather than more.So that's certainly a benefit there. 因为它让我去思考
Because it got me thinking about it. 第二个好处就是当时我想
The second benefit that I thought about at that moment- "我现在又有一个可以在课堂上讲的故事了
"oh now I have another story to tell in class. 一个应用三个P的例子"
An example of how I am applying the three Ps." 分心 很简单
Distraction- very easy. 我旁边就有最好的分心工具
I had the best distraction right next to me. Shirell 然后是转换角度
Shirell.And then,perspective. 一年之后这会有影响吗
Is this really going to matter a year from now that 我在上课前没有锻炼
I didn't exercise before a class 我没有复习两遍备课笔记
and that I didn't go over lecture notes twice 而是只复习了一遍
but only once before class? 所以我上课就不能发挥95%
So I'm not gonna give a class which is 95 percent, 只能发挥90%
but just 90 percent. 这真的很重要吗 不重要
Is this really going to matter? No. 但同时我对自己说
But at the same time,I said to myself, "我仍然希望能享受当下"
"I still want to be able to enjoy the here and now." 于是我和Shirell呆在一起
So I took my time,spent time with Shirell, 陪她久一点的时间
stayed with her a few more, 在托儿所陪她久一点 我们一起玩
extra minutes in day care- we played together, 然后我更放松 更平静地回家了
and then went home,much more relaxed,much calmer, 将三个P应用于实际发生的情况
having applied the three Ps to an actual situation that arose. 准许自己为人 接受它
Permission to be human- acceptance. 关注积极的一面
Focusing on the positive- benefit finding. 最后就是转换角度的能力
And finally,the ability to shift perspective- 我什么时候要退一步问自己
when do I want to zoom out and ask this, "我现在需要为此伤神吗
"do I need to sweat over it now? 我什么时候想沉浸于当下"
And when do I want to be immersed in the here and now?" 想想这个技巧 非常简单
Think about this technique.And again very simple. 这个技巧并不等于可以一劳永逸
Now this technique is not equivalent to an inoculation, 你现在学到了这个技巧
meaning it's not OK- now you learn the technique; 我知道三个P
I know about the three Ps. 之后我的人生中 它都能帮助我
Now for the rest of my life,it's going to help me. 它并不是这样
That's not how it works. 它更像是一种药丸
It works much more like a pill- 你要经常定期服用
that you need to take on a regular basis, 也就是说每当你经历一次困境
meaning if you are going through a difficult time, 就应用三个P
apply the three Ps. 你应用的越多 生效就越快
And the more you apply them,the faster it is. 正如我所说的 三个P
Now very often as I mention,the term three Ps. 我几乎就是自动过一遍这个过程
Already automatically I go through that process. 许可 积极 转换角度 现在已经快了很多
Permission.Positive.Perspective.It's much faster now. 因为我应用它 不断地练习它
Because I used it.Because I practiced it. 所以你要不断地用它 多试几次
So use it constantly.Try a few times. 我们总结了很多
Again,bring together a lot of the ideas 课上讲过的内容
that we have discussed in the course.OK. 一年半前
Year and a half ago, 我有幸被Martin Seligman邀请
I had the privilege of spending a full day 到他家去玩了一整天
with Martin Seligman inviting me to his home. 我们坐在他漂亮的玫瑰园中
And we were sitting down in his beautiful rose garden, 就是他经常写的那个玫瑰园
rose garden that he writes about often. 坐在那儿聊积极心理学
And sitting and talking about positive psychology- 它的过去 它的现在 以及更重要的是 它的未来
it's past; it's present; and more than anything,it's future. 我们讲到了教育 讲到他在他的课上做了什么
We talked about education,about what he was doing in his classes 我在我的课上做了什么
as well as what I was doing in my classes. 然后对话进行到一半时
And then,halfway through the conversation, 他突然停住说
he suddenly stopped and said, "Tal 你知道当今心理学的问题是什么吗
"Tal,you know what the problem is with psychology today? 不仅仅是积极心理学 而是当今的心理学"
Not just with positive psychology; with psychology today." 我说"是什么" 然后马上拿出我的笔记本
And I said,"what?" Immediately taking out my notebook. 他说"当今心理学的问题在于
And he said,"you know,the problem with psychology today 我们关注的大多是脖子以上
is that our focus has mostly been neck up, 而真正发生在我们身上的问题都在脖子以下"
whereas most of what happens to us is neck down." 我们关注的大多是脖子以上
Our focus has been neck up; 而真正发生在我们身上的问题都在脖子以下
and most of what happens to us is neck down. 听到这番话对我很重要
Now hearing this was very important for me. 尤其是从Martin Seligman
It was double important hearing 那里听到 就更为重要了
from Martin Seligman for various reasons. 首先 Martin Seligman总是走在前面的
First of all,Martin Seligman has always been ahead of the game. 他引领了认知心理学
He has,you know,brought cognitive psychology into... 在它还未盛行
when it wasn't,it was hardly known, 行为主义还是主流的时候
when behaviorism was dominant. 因此他的研究是超前于时代的
So his research is ahead of his time. 他开创了积极心理学
He brought positive psychology, 或者说将其整合为一门学科领域
or integrated it as a unified field of study. Martin Seligman
And Martin Seligman- 除了他是一个有远见并且
also the second thing beyond him being a visionary 很重要的心理学家之外
and very important psychologist- 他还是认知心理学的创始人之一
he was also one of the founders of cognitive psychology. 认知疗法是怎样的 就是关于脖子以上的
I mean,what is the cognitive therapy about? It's about neck up. 按照他的说法 我们过分关注脖子以上
And for him to say,we have been focusing too much on neck-up 我们需要关注脖子以下
and we need to go neck down. 这就意味着他已经想了很多
That means he thought about it a lot. 这意味着他确实研究了这种现象
That means he really studied this phenomenon 确实了解了我们需要一个大的转型
and really understands that we need a serious shift here. 而他十分正确
And he is very right. 这将是下两节课的话题
And this is the topic of the next two lectures. 实际上我要跟你们讲的是一种"灵药"
In fact what I'm going to offer you is a "wonder drug". 只提供给上1504课的学生
And this is only for students in 1504. 旁听的也算
OK,the auditors as well. 你们也可以得到"灵药"
You can have that "wonder drug" too. "灵药"将给你们带来这样的好处
And here is what the "wonder drug" is going to be doing for you. "灵药"能使你们感觉很好 非常好
The "wonder drug" is going to make you feel good.Real good. 你的自尊将显著提升
Your self- esteem is going to increase significantly; 你会更加自信
you are going to be more confident about yourself, 更加自信你在社会上的地位
about who you are,about your place in the world, 对自己更加自信
in social settings,on your own- 你会得到更高的自尊
you are just going to have higher levels of self-esteem.And 我们都知道自尊跟许许多多好东西相关联
we know that self-esteem is associated with tons of good stuff, 我们两周后会讲到
which we'll talk about two weeks from now. 你会觉得更平静 生活更有重心
You are going to feel much calmer,much more centered. 有了"灵药" 你甚至能变得更聪明
You are even going to get smarter taking that drug. 效果是显著的
It's remarkable. 你们开始有点担心了
I mean you are starting to get a little bit worried here. 它还会使你更吸引人
It's also going to make you more attractive. 你会觉得自己更吸引人
You are going to feel more attractive 你也会散发出更大的魅力
and you are going to exude more attractiveness. 这个"灵药"已经被测试了很多遍了
Again this drug has been tested time and again. 我说了
And I'm talking... 这都是研究成果 不是异想天开
This is all research; this is not just whim. 我是在向你们推销真的东西
Here I am selling you something real, 真正有效的东西
something that actually works.And 我还要说这药没有任何消极的副作用
I should add that there are no negative side effects to this drug. 相反 它还有无数积极的作用
On the contrary,there are tons of positive side effects 我数都数不过来
that I didn't even mention here. 不仅如此 它还是绝对合法的
More than that,you can rest assure it's legal. 我知道你们有点担心 但你们会接受的
I know you were concerned here,but you can take it. 你们能处理好
You can take it.You can handle it. 不需要担心
You don't need to worry about it. 如果有人来找你 很担心你怎么
And if anyone comes to you,and is concerned about 用了这个药 突然就变了个人
how you suddenly changed as a result of this drug, 你可以让他们来找我
you can send them to me. 最后 我不会收你们的钱
And finally,I'm not going to charge you for it. 我本该收钱的
I should charge you for it. 但我不是个好商人
But I'm not a good business man, 所以我接下来的两节课会免费发放给你们
so I'm going to give it to you for free over the next two lessons 这就是"灵药"
And here is the drug. 事实上它不仅仅是种药 是一杯鸡尾酒
In fact,it's not just a drug.It's a cocktail. 是一杯药做的鸡尾酒
It's a cocktail of drugs, 因为它们似乎要很多东西组合才能发挥最好的作用
because they seem to work best in many situations. 这就是那个鸡尾酒
So here is the cocktail. 我希望你们都在听
I hope you are listening now. 因为这很重要
Because this is very important. 灵药就是 半小时的锻炼 每周四次
The wonder drug: 30 minutes of physical exercise,4 times a week. 鸡尾酒的第二个成分
The second component of the cocktail: 至少十五分钟的意念锻炼 每周六到七次
at least 15 minutes of mindful exercise 6 or 7 times a week. 鸡尾酒的第三个成分就是
The third component of this cocktail with all these benefits: 每24小时睡8个小时
8 hours of sleep more or less per 24 hours. 最后一个成分就是 每天12个拥抱
And the final component of the cocktail: 12 hugs a day. 最后一个可以过量
The last one- you can overdose on. 你想加多少就加多少
Or rather you can- you can have as much as you like. 但至少每天要有12个拥抱
But at least 12 hugs a day. 如果你服用这个药
If you take,if you take this drug... 你们可以拥抱 没关系
You may hug.That's fine. 这可是幸福课 但不要在课堂上睡觉
This is 1504! C'mon! But no sleeping in class. 如果你服用这个药 这个鸡尾酒 我保证
If you take this drug,this cocktail,I guarantee, 我保证以上提到的很多好处 就算不是全部
I guarantee many of the benefits,if not all of the benefits and 说不定还会比那更多 都会实现
possibly many more benefits that I've just talked about before. 你们可以看到只有今天
You see today,only today, 我们才开始认识到精神和
we are beginning to understand the connection 肉体之间的联系
between mind and body. 有一个人 第一个真正认识到的人
One of the people,the first people to really understand 我们接下来的两节课会讲到的 就是Jon Kabat-Zinn
who we'll talk about in next two classes is Jon Kabat-Zinn. 以及他的著作 《全灾难人生》
In his wonderful book,"Full Catastrophe Living"- 摘自《希腊人佐巴》的一个短语
a phrase taken from Zorba the Greek, Jon Kabat-Zinn说"也许行为治疗
Jon Kabat-Zinn: "Perhaps the most fundamental development 最基础的进展就是认识到
in behavioral medicine is the recognition 我们不能再认为健康
that we can no longer think about health 仅仅是身体或者精神的一个独立属性
as being solely a characteristic of the body or the mind 因为精神和肉体是内在联系的"
because body and mind are interconnected." 这可是否定了
This is essentially a rejection 千百年来西方的观念
of hundreds of years of Western thinking. 笛卡尔的二元论
Cartesian dualism,René Descartes- "意识和物质是两种绝对不同的实体"
"the mind and the body are two irreconcilable separate entities." 这也渗透到了医学之中
And this permeated medicine. 我们"修"一个人就像修机器一样 修他的身体
How do we "fix" a person like we fix a machine,we fix the body. 他的精神则是完全没有关系的
The mind is something entirely separate from it. 笛卡尔也不是凭空创造出的理论
And again,Descartes didn't invent it. 我们可以在柏拉图的作品中看到笛卡尔二元论的种子
We can see seeds of Cartesian dualism in the works of plato, 之后亚里士多德试图反对
which then Aristotle tried to negate, 重新建立精神和肉体之间的联系
recreating the mind/body connection, 但最终还是二元论成为主流
but again was made clear very evident 由十七世纪笛卡尔倡导
in the West with Descartes in the 17th century. 然后就有了Jon Kabat-Zinn 有了Herbert Benson
Then comes along Jon Kabat-Zinn; comes along Herbert Benson; 有了Ellen Langer 有了Tara Bennett Goleman
comes along Ellen Langer; comes along Tara Bennett Goleman. 这些心理学家 医生了解这种联系
Psychologists,doctors who understand the connections- 还有John Sarno 纽约大学的一个医学教授
comes along John Sarno,a medical doctor from NYU, 纽约大学医学院的
New York University medical school 他们告诉我们通过我们的想法
and shows how with our thinking, 我们可以解决大多数背痛的问题
we can overcome most of our back problems 或者腕管综合症
or Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, 显示出精神和肉体之间的联系
showing the connection between mind and body, 或者是安慰剂的作用 非常惊人
or a placebo effect- staggering effects. 还记得我们说它能起到和催吐剂相反的作用
Remember we talked about it- reversing the effect of Ipecac 以及我们如何用精神和肉体
and asking how can we use that mind and body 互相形成一个良性循环
to help each other to launch a virtuous cycle between the two, 精神帮助肉体 肉体帮助精神
while the mind helps body and body helps mind? 我想从身体锻炼开始讲起
I want to begin by talking about physical exercise- 鸡尾酒的第一个成分
the first component of that cocktail, 灵药的第一个成分
the first component of the wonder drug. 当今社会怎么了
What's happening today? 当今社会普遍缺乏运动
Today there is reduction of physical work. 现在越来越多人
More and more people today 享有无需进行辛苦体力劳动的"特权"
have the "luxury" of not having to physically work hard. 我用了引号 因为这是特权中的
And I put it in quotes,because it's one of the manifestations 非特权的表现
of the under-privilege of the privilege. 在过去 我们要去追一只鹿才能有饭吃
You see,in the past,we have to run after a deer for lunch, 或者逃脱一只狮子 这样才不会被吃掉
or run away from a lion so that we don't become lunch. 我们要采摘果子作甜点
We had to gather berries for desert. 我们现在呢 去家里的甜点桌子就行了
What do we do today? Go to the desert table in our house. 或者叫份比萨
Or call out for pizza. 在过去 我们要想取暖就得收集木材
In the past,we had to gather logs if we wanted to keep warm. 而现在呢 就这样
Today what do we do? This exercise. 打开暖气 然后为此付出代价
Turn up the thermometer.And we pay a price. 我长大之后
But you know when I grew up, 当我在以色列长大时 我记得...
when I was growing up in Israel,I remember... 以色列是个内陆国家
You know Israel is a Mediterranean country, 下午两点到四点是午休时间 非常安静
2 - 4 pm is siesta time.Very quiet. 孩子们都不到街上去
Kids are not out on the street. 但四点整 有时甚至是3:59时
But at 4:00,sometimes even at 3:59, 每天都会从街上传来一声叫声
every day there was a shout from the street, 叫着"Tal 踢足球"
calling "Taaaaal! Soccer!" 然后叫其他的小孩 "踢足球"或者"捉迷藏"
Then calling other kids,"soccer!" Or "Hide and seek!" 或者"抓人游戏"
Or "running around!" 这是我们在午休时间之后从下午四点
That's what we did from 4 pm after siesta time 一直到晚上九点睡觉 还有妈妈喊吃晚饭时做的事
until 9 when we went to sleep and mom called us to have dinner. 而今天在以色列呢
What happens today in Israel? 不仅仅是以色列 全世界 下午四点是怎样的
And not just in Israel,around the world,at 4 pm? 不是下楼踢足球或跑来跑去
It's not going down and playing soccer,and running around. 而是继续坐在电脑前
It's continuing to be on the computer. 继续看电视
It's continuing to watch television. 结果就导致了
And as a result of that,as a result of the fact, 我们更习惯于坐着
we have become so much more sedentary. 我们付出了非常高昂的代价
We are paying a very high price. 当然是从身体上来说
Of course on the physical level, 但除此之外还有心理上的代价
but even more than that,on the psychological level. 这不是巧合
It is no coincidence that 抑郁的程度已经增加了十倍
the levels of depression have gone up 10 fold. 这不是巧合 从20世纪60年代算起
It is no coincidence since the 1960s- 这不是巧合
it is no coincidence that 当今抑郁症的平均发生年龄刚好只有15岁
the average age the onset of depression today is just under 15. 而在20世纪60年代 抑郁症的平均发生年龄是30岁
Or as in 1960s,the average onset of depression was around 30. 这是因为我们停止了锻炼
It is because we have stopped exercising. 我们停止发挥力量
We have stopped exerting effort and energy. 这不是巧合
It is no coincidence that 注意力缺陷多动症的病例指数上升
the levels of ADD and ADHD are skyrocketing- 更不用说 我之后也会说到
not to mention,and I'll mention later, 宅的生活方式的后果
the physical consequences of sedentary life. 锻炼不是种奢侈 这是种需要
You see exercise is not a luxury; it's a need. 就像氧气那样的需要
And it's a need just like oxygen; 就像维生素那样的需要
it's a need just like certain vitamins 就像蛋白质和碳水化合物那样的需要
or a need just like protein and carbohydrates- our needs. 我们不是
We weren't made, 不是生来就要坐在电脑面前一整天的
we weren't born to sit in front of a computer all day long, 也不是一整天聊天的
or just to talk all day long. 我们是要在一天结束时
Yeah we are meant to do it at the end of the day 打完猎采完果子之后干这些事的
after we have hunted and gathered. 不管是上帝决定 还是进化决定 还是两者共同决定的
And whether it's by God,or whether it's by evolution,or both, 我们都有对锻炼的需求
we now have a need for physical exercise. 如果我们不能满足某种需求 无论是对维生素的需求
And when we frustrate a need,whether it's a need for vitamins, 对蛋白质的需求 还是对锻炼的需求
whether it's a need for protein or a need for exercise, 我们都要付出代价
we pay a price- 既包括生理上的代价 也包括心理上的代价
both physical price as well as psychological price. 塞内加 两千年前的希腊哲学家说
Seneca- over 2000 years ago,the Greek philosopher: "我们的祖先和我们过着一样的生活
"Our forefathers lived every jot as well as we, 他们靠自己的双手
when they provided and dressed their own meat 来获得食物 驻扎在大地上
with their own hands; lodged upon the ground, 还未受到黄金与宝石的诱惑"
and were not as yet come to the vanity of gold and gems." 这是塞内加 一个很有思想的哲学家说的
This is Seneca,a very thoughtful philosopher, 讲到他那个时代存在的
talking about the lack of physical exercise 缺乏锻炼的现象
that existed in his time. 现在这种现象严重了多少呢 今天在我们这个时代
How much more is it today? When today we are living in our age, 一两百年前连皇家都过不上的生活
the way that not even royalty lived just 100 or 200 years ago, 方便的 奢侈的生活
the easy life,the luxurious life, 这是特权中的非特权
and it's the under-privilege of the privilege. 我们要为此付出代价
We are paying the price for it. 让我们来看看心理学家是怎么说的
Let's see what our psychologist has to say about this. Ellen DeGeneres针砭时事
Ellen DeGeneres on the state of affairs. "此时此刻"
[VIDEO]Ellen DeGeneres "HERE AND NOW": 我们很懒 做什么事都一个按钮搞定
We're lazy.We have buttons doing everything. 做什么事都不用体力了
There is no physical activity attached to anything anymore. 即使是开车库门
Even the garage door opening- 我们曾经要下车 打开车库门
we used to get out of the car and open up the garage door. 现在就只用按一个按钮
Now there is a button you push,you know. 还有车窗
And the car window. 这太过分了
This became too much! 我不想按按钮 我只想呼吸新鲜空气
I don't want to turn buttons I just wanna fresh air! 我们现在还在用这个手势
We still use that gesture 如果想让某人把车窗摇下来的话
if we want someone to roll their window down in traffic. 我们还在用 虽然已经没人知道是什么意思
We still use that.Even now nobody's got it. 因为如果我们这样做就会像个傻子
Because we'd look like idiots if we did this. 我们很懒 我们以前有薄荷糖
We're lazy.We used to have breath mints. 现在有洗牙糖
Now we have breath strips. 它们帮我们把舌头上的东西都溶掉
They just dissolve all on our tongue for us. 真是懒啊 我们不能吸吮了吗
How lazy..Can we not suck anymore? 放上来吧 我累了 我今天好辛苦
Aa..put it on...I'm tired! Aaa...I had a hard day! 我和你们分享几个
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Let me share with you a few studies 关于这种生活方式的影响的研究
about the effect of this kind of life style. 是由Michael Babyak
This was done by Michael Babyak 以及他在杜克大学医学院的同事共同完成的
and his colleagues at Duke Medical School. 这是个很重要的研究
This was a very important study that 做了很多很多的实验
launched other numerous studies that 模仿这个 并显示出这有多现实
replicated this and showed how this applies, 锻炼有多重要 不仅对于抑郁
how exercise is important just for depression, 还有其他方面
also for other areas. Michael Babyak做的实验是
So what Michael Babyak did 找了156个抑郁症患者
was bringing in 156 patients with major depression. 这些人有各种各样的症状
These are people who have a number of symptoms, 包括失眠 饮食不规律 无精打采
among which are insomnia,eating disorders,listlessness- 不愿动弹 情绪低落
lack of desire to act,depressed mood, 其中很多人都有自杀的想法或倾向
many of them suicidal with attempts or thoughts about suicide 诸如此类
and on and on. 这些人身体都非常不好
These people who are in bad,very bad shape. 他将他们带到实验室
And he brought them into the lab 随机分为三组
and randomly divided them into 3 groups. 第一组是锻炼组
The first group was the exercise group; 第二组服药
second group was put on medication; 第三组既服药又锻炼
and the third group was put on medication and exercise. 他们所服用的药是抗抑郁药 左洛复
The kind of medication was the antidepressant,Zoloft, 继百忧解之后最普遍的抗抑郁药
the second most popular,common antidepressant after Prozac- 非常有效
very powerful; works. 很多研究 以安慰剂为对照 证明左洛复是有效的
A lot of studies,compared to placebos,showing that Zoloft works 是一种选择性5-羟色胺再摄取抑制剂
An SSRI. 他们所做的运动
The exercise that they were put on 是半个小时中等难度的
was 30 minutes of moderate difficulty- 有氧运动
so aerobic physical exercise- 可能是慢跑或者竞走 也可能是游泳
so it could be jogging or race-walking; it could be swimming. 不会太难 中等难度的运动
Not too hard,but moderate difficulty of exercise. 一周三次 每次半小时
Three times a week for 30 minutes. 然后跟踪调查这三组人
And then he followed these three groups: 锻炼组 服药组
exercise group,the medication group, 锻炼加服药组 跟踪调查了四个月
and the exercise & medication group- followed them for 4 months. 这是得到的结果
And here are the results. 你们预期会是什么结果
What do you want to see? – 这156个病人 或者每组52个病人中
How many of the 156 patients,or 52 per group, 有多少治好了抑郁症
how many of them get over their major depression? 他发现这三组中的每一组
And what he found was that in each one of the three groups, 四个月后都有超过60%的人情况有所好转
over 60 percent got better by the end of the 4 months. 他们不再出现
They were not experiencing 抑郁症的症状
the symptoms of major depression anymore, 或者大部分症状
or most of the symptoms at the very least. 他们不能再按照美国精神病诊断标准
They were no longer,could no longer be categorized by the DSM-IV 被诊断为抑郁症
as having major depression. 在各组之间没有显著的区别
There was no significant difference among the groups 只有一个区别 那个只锻炼的组
except for one difference: the group that exercised only- 需要更长一点的时间
it took them a little bit longer 来治好抑郁症
to get over their major depression. 在服药的情况下 一般要花上
So with the medication,it usually took probably around, 约一到两个星期 差不多十天来治好
between 1 or 2 weeks,around 10 days to overcome their depression 60%受试者的抑郁症
for the 60 percent who were helped. 对于仅仅锻炼的组 他们花了差不多一个月
For the exercise only group,it took closer to a month. 但在第一个月后 一旦他们好一些之后
But after the first month,once they got better, 就没有什么区别了
there was no difference. 三个组都出现了好转
All three groups benefited as much. 注意很重要的一点
Now very important point: 这并不代表我们就要废除抗抑郁药
this does not mean that we should do away with antidepressants 或者抗焦躁的药物 或者治疗多动症的利他林
or anti-anxiety pills or Ritalin for ADD/ADHD. 完全不是
Not at all. 他要说的是
What it is saying though that 我们首先要问的是锻炼
we need to perhaps first ask whether exercise is, 或者缺乏锻炼是不是其潜在原因
or lack there of is the underlying reason for the experience. 我们为什么不废除药物呢
Now why should not we do away 如果锻炼和服药的效果如此类似的话
if the results are very similar between exercise and medication? 我们为什么不废除服药呢 原因在于
Why shouldn't we do away with medication? Here is why. 比如说 让我画一个圆
You see,let's say...Let me just draw this circle. 假设
No.Let's say 这是所有抑郁的人的集合
this is the total population of people who are depressed. 我们知道左洛复
We know that Zoloft, 或者说抗抑郁症帮了他们60%的人
or antidepressant medication helps about 60 percent of them. 我们知道锻炼同样帮了60%的人
And we know that exercise also helps 60 percent. 但不是同一个60%
However,it is not the same 60 percent. 在定义上有重叠
There is overlap by definition, 因为多于50%
because it is more than 50 percent. 它们帮助的不是同一群人
But it doesn't help the same people. 有的人仅仅受了服药的好处
So there are people who are only helped by medication; 有的人仅仅受了锻炼的好处
there are people who are only helped by exercise; 还有的人两者好处皆有
and there are people who are helped by both. 所以不能说 废除服药吧
So it's not saying let's do away with medication. 它很重要 它确实有用
It is important.It helps. 但结果同时显示 "试试锻炼吧
However it also says "let's try exercise, 因为我有可能是得益于锻炼而不是服药
because I may be helped by exercise and not medication, 或者得益于两者
or I may be helped by both. 研究的关键在于
Here is the clincher though in the study: 我们在看这些研究时 想搞清楚的是
so what we are looking for,as I look in all these studies, 复发率 实验结束半年后
is the relapse rates,meaning 6 months after the end of the study 我们不再让他们服药
when we no longer give medication, 不再强迫被试者锻炼
when we no longer push the participants to exercise 每周至少三次 半年后如何了呢
three times a week at least,what happens after 6 months? 这是他们发现的结果
And here is what they found: 仅仅服药组的复发率只有
the relapse rate of the group on medication only- 60%多好转的人中有38%人回头
38 percent out of the 60+ percent who got better returned back 又有了抑郁症的症状 38% 超过了1/3
and had the major depression again,38 percent,over a third; 这个既服药又锻炼的组
the group that did medication 复发率为31%
and exercise- relapse rate of 31 percent, 刚好比三分之一少一点 在这些60%好转的人中
just under a third of the 60+ percent who got better; 仅仅锻炼的组的复发率
relapse rates of the exercise group only- 他们可以选择继续锻炼也可以不锻炼
and remember they could continue exercise or not; 完全看他们自己
that was entirely up to them- 仅仅锻炼的组的复发率 为9%
the relapse rate of the exercise only group,9 percent. 十分令人惊讶的结果
Remarkable results. 和2000年之前的实验结果非常相似
Similar results earlier than the year 2000, 追溯到1984年的精神抑郁症
all the way back in 1984 for dysthymia. 精神抑郁症通常持续时间较长
Dysthymia is usually longer lasting, 但没一般抑郁症那么急性
but less acute form of depression. 是一种深层的悲伤的情绪
So it's a deep feeling of sadness. 比抑郁症持续时间长很多
Lasts for much longer than major depression. 但锻炼对它也有帮助
But also exercise helps this. 在我第一次看到这个研究时
Now when I first saw this study again there are dozens, 现在已经有无数这样的研究了
there are hundreds of studies by now, 在不同的领域重复这样的现象
replicating this phenomenon on different, 我等下会讲到
different areas- as I'll talk about in a minute, 我说 "哇 太不可思议了"
I said,"wow! This is amazing!" 不锻炼就像服用抗忧郁药 效果很像
So exercise is like taking antidepressant- seems like it. 锻炼就像服用抗忧郁药物
Exercise is like taking antidepressant. 但我再仔细想想
But when I thought about further, 就发现并不是这样
I realized that wasn't the case. 不是锻炼就像服用抗忧郁药
It's not that exercising is like taking an antidepressant, 而是不锻炼就像服用抗忧郁药
it's rather that not exercising is like taking a depressant. 这不仅仅是语言上的区别
This is more than just a semantic difference. 这不仅仅是语言上的区别
This is more than just a semantic difference. 为什么 因为我们不是生来为了坐着的
Why? Because you see,we weren't made to be sedentary. 我们不适合长时间坐在电脑前
We weren't made to sit in front of the computer 或者教室里
or in the classroom. 我们本来应该去逐鹿 或者逃离狮子的追捕
We were made to run after that deer or run away from that lion. 而当我们无法满足这种需求时 正如之前讲的
And we frustrate a need,as we've talked about earlier, 我们无法满足需求 就要付出代价
we frustrate a need,we pay a price. 比方说上帝或者基因决定的幸福程度
So let's say our God-given or genes-given level of happiness, 基本的幸福程度有这么高
our base level of happiness is here. 我们固有的水平就这么高
Our set point or set range is here. 如果我们不锻炼
When we don't exercise, 我们就把这个基本水平降到这里
what we are doing is that we are lowering that base level to here 如果我们的正常水平在这里
If our normal level is here, 当我们不锻炼时
what we are doing when we don't exercise, 就会把它降到这里
we are lowering it to here. 然而我们是可以达到这样的幸福程度的
And then whereas we could have lived our life up here 即使有兴衰变迁 也可能是螺旋式上升的
with all the vicissitudes,and hopefully upward spiral, 而我们现在是经历了
what we are doing is we are living our lives 同样的起伏 只不过是在更低的水平上
the same ups and downs- only a much lower level here. 我们努力挣扎着到达上帝决定
And we struggle just to get to our God-given 或基因决定的幸福程度
or genes-given level of happiness. 我不是个临床心理学家 我不是心理治疗师
You know I'm not a clinical psychologist.I'm not a therapist. 但是
However, 如果我是的话 我治疗病人的一个前提
if I were one,a prerequisite for me for treating people, 就是体育锻炼
for working with people would have been physical exercise, 或者至少
or at the very least, 我对他们第一个要求就是要进行身体锻炼
being my No.1 priority of helping them to physically exercise. 因为他们通常都是
Cause very often they would come 没有体育锻炼的动力
because they don't have the motivation perhaps to exercise. 但那会是我的首要要求
But that would be my No.1 priority, 要么是治疗的前提条件
either to make it a prerequisite for being treated 要么就是首要的要求
or to make it a top priority. 为什么 因为我不想和自然作对
Why? Because I don't want to fight nature. 我不想和自然作对
I don't want to fight nature 所以我要治疗的那个人必须达到上帝或者
so that the person I'm working with gets to their God-given 基因决定的幸福程度
or genes-given level of well being. 我想和自然合作
I want to work with nature. 自然所要求的必须遵守
Nature to be commanded must be obeyed. 自然的命令之一
One of the dictates of nature 就是我们要活跃地运动
is that we need to be physically active. 我在晚餐时就讲了这个
Now I was just talking about this over dinner- 我和网球教练Dave Fish 以及他妻子
I had dinner with Dave Fish,the tennis coach and his wife, Bonnie Mosland 一个临床心理学家共进晚餐
Bonnie Mosland,who is a clinical therapist. 然后她跟我说 "对"
And she told me,"yeah." 她已经治疗了很多年病人了
You know she's been treating people for years. "我就是这样的
"That's what I do. 我治疗的前提条件就是你必须进行身体锻炼"
Prerequisite for treatment with me is physical exercise." 确实有心理学家
So there are apprently psychologists 能够理解锻炼的重要性
who understand the importance of exercise. 为什么要和自然作对呢
Why fight nature here? 当你可以在这个水平开始的时候
When you can start and the base level can be here? 还有其他好处 都是基于这个研究的
Some other benefits- again all based on research. 你们在阅读中可能读过一些
You've read some of it in your readings, 锻炼还有很多其他好处
but more benefits to exercise. 首先是心理上的好处 自尊
First psychological benefit: self-esteem. 从很多层面上说 首先是身体上的自尊
On a few levels- first of all,bodily self-esteem, 我们自我感觉更良好
we feel better about ourselves; 也包括整体的自尊 我们感觉更良好
and also general self-esteem,we feel better about ourselves. 不管是整体还是特征性的自尊都得到提升
State as well as trait self-esteem increases. 换句话说 不但锻炼之后我们马上就能感觉到
In other words,as we feel right after we exercise 而且长时间内我们都能感觉到
but also as we feel in the long term 如果我们保持规律的锻炼计划
if we have a regular exercise regime. 所以整体和特征性的自尊都会得到提升
So both state as well as trait self-esteem is increased. 焦虑和压力
Anxiety and stress- 是最容易被锻炼所影响的事之一
one of the things that is most susceptible to exercise. Tammy能够看出来
You know Tammy can tell, 我妻子能够看出来我48小时内有没有锻炼
my wife can tell if I have exercise for more than 48 hours. 我回到家时
You know when I come home, 她会说"你最近一次锻炼是什么时候"
she would say,"when did you last exercise?" 为什么 因为她有感觉
Why? Because she feels. 她能察觉到
she has the sense of you know, 是不是有点小小的变化 或者稍微有点压力
a little bit rough around the edges,a little bit more tense. 正如我在之前的课上讲过的
Again,as I mentioned in previous classes, 我有焦虑的倾向
I have inclination for anxiety. 锻炼就是我的药 我的灵药
Exercise is my drug.It's my wonder drug. 至少要保证每隔一天锻炼一次 每隔一天
At the very least,every other day.At the very least. 这对无数临床的病症都非常有效
It's been used very successfully for numerous clinical disorders. 包括精神分裂症
Even schizophrenia. 它并不是自己起作用
In conjunction with,not itself, 而是和治疗以及药物协同起作用
in conjunction with therapy and various drugs. 但它增加了成功的可能性
But it enhances the likelihood of a success 如果你去锻炼的话
if you exercise as well. 还有注意力缺陷多动症 不一定足以治愈 但通常十分有效
Also ADD and ADHD- not always enough,but very often enough. 那些坚持常规锻炼的人
People who exercise and exercise regularly- 更容易克服注意力缺陷多动症
much more likely to get over ADD and ADHD. 为什么呢 因为这对我们的大脑有无数的影响
Why? Because there are numerous effects on our brain, 对大脑有无数的影响
numerous effects on our brain. 比方说我们释放的那个化学物质
For example,the exact same chemicals that are released 当我们形成新的神经通路时
when we form new neural pathways- 还记得神经形成或者神经可塑性吗
remember neurogenesis or neuroplasticity- 正是这个形成新的
the exact chemicals that 神经通路时会释放的化学物质 就能在我们锻炼时产生
we need to form new neural pathways are created when we exercise. 换句话说 我们去跑个步之后
In other words,after we go for a run. 这时我们的大脑就最适合于
This is the time when our brain is most susceptible 形成新的神经通路
to creating new neural pathways. 所以如果你在早上去锻炼 那么一整天
So if you exercise in the morning,during the day, 你就能更好地吸收你阅读的东西
you retain much better the material you have read 或者你听到的东西
or you have heard. 锻炼之后你会更有创造力
You are much more creative after exercise, 如果你已经锻炼了一段时间的话
I mean if you have exercise for a few days. 同时它能帮助我们释放
And also it helps us release these chemicals 恰好够量的这种化学物质 不多也不少
in the exact right amount- no more,no less than we need. 为什么 因为这是自然 自然比我们更懂我们需要什么
Why? Because this is nature.Knows best what we need. 我们释放这刚好足量的化学物质
And we release these exact right amount of chemicals 就达到了我们的最好状态
that we are at our best. 这又是一种方式 我之前提到过的
This is by the way why again as I mentioned earlier religiously 我每堂课之前都去跑步 不是次次都能去跑
I run before every lecture.Well,I don't always run. 我喜欢在外面跑 但不是每次都可以
I like running outside but it's not always possible. 所以我有时会跳家里的蹦床
So I jump on my trampoline at home. 我有一个小的
I have you know one of the small ones. 我在上面跳 戴着脉冲计
And I jump on them.And I have my pulse meter on me. 不应该告诉你们这个吗 好吧
Shouldn't have told you this? No.OK. 我能感觉到如果我不这样做
And I can feel when I haven't, 在上课之前不做锻炼
when I don't exercise before lecture. 比如说我去旅行
You know,for example,when I travel, 刚好赶在上课前回来 没时间去锻炼
I arrive right before lecture and don't have time to work out, 我能感觉到我阅读时
I can feel when I read, 我的记忆保留率 集中程度
my retention rates,my concentration levels, 我之前说过 我有轻微的注意力缺陷多动症
cause as I said earlier,I have mild case of ADHD. 锻炼是我的药
And again,exercise is my drug. 身体上的好处
Physical benefits. 我现在跟你们讲的不是什么新内容
Again I am not saying anything new to you here. 但你要这样来想它
But here is a way to think about it. 我们都有一个基因决定的体重水平
We all have a genes/God-given level of weight, 适合我们的体重水平
of the right weight for us. 当我们锻炼时 我们在那儿
Now when we exercise,we are there. 这样就是健康的 是我们应该达到的
And that is healthy.That is where we should be. 当我们不锻炼时 体重就会超过这个
When we don't exercise we are going above this weight. 就像降低幸福水平一样
Just like we go below our base level of well being. 换句话说 锻炼的作用
In other words,what exercise does 就是将我们带回我们本来应有的水平
is simply bring us back to where we are supposed to be all along, 这也就解释了为什么大多数节食
which explains why most diets fail 如果不和锻炼一起进行 就很容易失败的原因
if not associate with physical exercise as well. 因为我们的身体会拼命想要回到原来的水平
Because our bodies will always fight to go back to the base level 我们本该有的水平
to where we are supposed to be. 如果我们不锻炼 就会挣扎得更辛苦
And if we don't exercise,we will struggle even harder. 慢性疾病 不管是糖尿病
Chronical disease,whether it's diabetes, 还是心脏病 抑或是癌症
whether it's heart disease,whether it's cancer. 数量是非常惊人的
Once again numbers are staggering,absolutely staggering. 糖尿病 有些糖尿病原本只有45岁以上的人
Diabetes,certain types of diabetes were only experienced 才会获得
by people 45 years and older. 现在小学生都会得这种糖尿病
Today kids in elementary school are getting this kind of diabetes 其原因很大程度上就是
and the association is mostly 因为营养问题以及缺乏锻炼
because of nutrition and lack of exercise. 经常锻炼的人
People who exercise 更不容易得慢性疾病
are much less prone to these chronical diseases. 患糖尿病的可能性大大降低
Reducing significantly the likelihood of diabetes; 减少了50%以上患心脏病的风险
reducing by 50 percent or more the likelihood of heart failure 以及得癌症的可能性
and the likelihood of certain kinds of cancer. 可以降低50%的可能性
By over 50 percent reducing their likelihood- 它是灵药
again,a wonder drug. 经常锻炼的人免疫系统更强
People who exercise regularly have a stronger immune system. 我要给你们打好提前量
Well I have to prep you for this. 最后 如果你现在还没被说服
And finally if you haven't been convinced until now, 希望这个能说服你
hopefully this will convince you. (更好的性行为) 不管男人还是女人
(Better Sex) Both men and women. 都能增强性欲 对性的渴望
Strengthens libido- their sexual desire; 能够增加高潮的可能性
enhances the likelihood of orgasms. 经常锻炼的人性生活会更美好
People who exercise more regularly have more and better sex. 很多研究都证实了这一点
Again,a lot of research showing this. 它适用于任何年龄
And by the way,this applies to all ages. 不是任何年龄 21岁以上
To all ages.Well,not all ages.I hope.21 and on. 但是关于锻炼要记住的很重要的一点是
Now the important thing to remember about exercise- 它不是万灵药
it is not a panacea. 它不是万能的
It's not a fix-all. 记住不是所有人都能从锻炼中获得好处
Remember not everyone benefits from exercise. 对于有的人来说 服药就是
There are some people for whom medication 很适合和很重要的方式
is absolutely the right thing and it's important. 然而在很多情况下 研究和调查都证实了
However,in many situations,and it's eveident by,by literature, 在大多数情况下 锻炼是有帮助的
by research- in most situations,exercise can help. 就算不是它本身的作用
Even it's not on its own. 即使是和别的东西协同作用的 它还是有帮助
Even in conjunction with something else.It helps. 为什么要和自然对抗呢
And again why fight nature? Why fight it? 自然所要求的必须遵守
Nature to be commanded must be obeyed. 还有很重要的一点在于恢复
What's very important is recovery. 我给你们读读
Let me read you something that Dienstbier和Zillig在《积极心理学手册》中
Dienstbier and Zillig write about in the Handbook 对研究者们这样写道
of Positive Psychology to researchers in the field: " "重复的过于密集的训练 以至于没法及时恢复
Repeated workouts that are too intense to allow complete recovery 可能会导致运动员感觉到'泄气'
may cause endurance athletes to experience 'staleness,' 典型的症状为
a syndrome that is characterized 更高的焦虑水平
by increased psychological symptoms of anxiety 更高的神经紧张度
with increased sympathetic nervous system, 更高的儿茶酚胺和皮质激素水平"
catecholamine,and cortisol base levels." 他们想说的是
Now what they are saying here 有时事情是过犹不及的
is that there can be too much of a good thing. 尤其是完美主义者要明白这一点
And this is especially important for perfectionists to understand 越多不一定代表越好
It doesn't mean that more is always better 说到锻炼的话
when it comes to exercise. 确实会过度锻炼 有些过度训练的症状
There is too much- and some of the symptoms of overtraining 会和训练不足的症状十分相似
are very similar to the symptoms of undertraining. 高水平的焦虑 高水平的泄气
Higher levels of anxiety,higher levels of staleness, 失去动力
lack of motivation, 最终也可能导致抑郁
as well as ultimately could lead to depression. 这是完美主义的一种症状
This is a symptom of a perfectionism. 我在做运动员时就经历过这样的事
This is something that I experience when I was an athlete- 过度训练 恢复不足 并为此付出了代价
overtraining,not recovering enough,and paying the price. 身体上自然是受了伤 而且心理上也受了伤
Physically of course with injuries,but also psychologically. 我推荐每周有一到四天的休息时间
What I recommend is between 1 to 4 days of rest a week. 理想情况下你想每周锻炼五到六次
Ideally you want to exercise 5 or 6 times a week; 我认为至少要保证每两天一次
at minimum I would say every other day. 这样每周就是三到四天
So it could be 3 or 4 days a week. 至少每两天一次
At minimum every other day. 理想状态下你们可能想更多一点
Ideally you may want a little bit more than that. 每次半小时 也可以增加到一小时
Each time,about 30 minutes; could go all the way up to an hour. 关键是要听从你身体的需要
The key here is to listen to your body. 如果你的身体很痛苦
If your body is hurting 超出了正常的不舒适范围 赶快停止
beyond the slight discomfort of exercise which is natural,stop. 如果肌肉开始酸痛 停下来
If your muscle hurts,stop. 宁可少也不要过度
Or on the side of too little rather than too much. 还有一种聆听你身体的方法
Also one of the ways to listen to your body 如果你没那么敏感的话
if you are not as sensitive to it, 就是戴个心率监控器
is putting on a heart rate monitor, 不是很贵 但非常非常有用
which is something not very expensive,very useful,very helpful. 这样我就知道我的锻炼
So I know my exercise 会保持在最高心率的70%左右
would be around 70 percent of maximum heart rate. 我最高心率的70%大概是128
70 percent of maximum heart rate for me is about 128. 于是我就在120到135之间锻炼
So exercise around between 120 and 135. 偶尔我又会加强一点
And then once in a while I also introduce interval training, 达到90%
while I go all the way up to 90 percent, 我的差不多是165
which is about 165 heart rate for me. 很容易发现你们的心跳
But very easy to find out about you know what your heart rate is- 通常在最大心率是220减去你的年龄
usually maximum heart rate is around 220 minus your age. 所以如果你20岁 最大心率就是200
So if you are 20 your maximum is to 200. 我37岁 所以就是183
Mine,being 37,is 183. 差不多吧
Again,more or less. 然后你就保持在70%的水平
And then you want to be around 70 percent of it. 65%到75%的水平
65 percent to 75 percent of it 来获得锻炼的最温和的效果
for moderate effective benefit of exercise. 记住数量确实会影响质量
And to keep in mind that the quantity does affect quality. 我们再次画个图表
And once again we have the graph that 我们经常看到的线性曲线图
we see so often: the curve linear relationship. 在图的这边
So if on this side of the graph, 是心理和生理的好处
we had psychological plus physiological benefit, 这里是运动量
and here we have effort or amount of work, 那么图画出来就是这样 太少了不好
the graph looks like this,where too little effort is not good. 我们要达到基本的幸福水平才行
We are compromising on our base level of happiness. 太多了也不好
Too much effort is also not good. 这时我们就会感到泄气和焦虑
That's when we experience the staleness and the anxiety.And 我们想要达到的是差不多到最适水平
what we want to get to is more or less around our optimum level. 而这个最适水平也在于我们能投入多少时间
And also optimum level given how much time we have. 在理想情况下
Yeah,in an ideal world, 我每周锻炼六次  每次一个小时
I would work out six times a week for one hour each time. 在理想情况下是这样 但我还想做很多别的事
In an ideal world.But I want to do many other things. 所以我每周至少锻炼四次 每次半小时
So I exercise at least 4 times a week,30 minutes each time. 这对我来说就足够了 要搞清楚什么对你是足够的
It's good enough for me.Identify what's good enough for you. 恢复也很重要
Recovery is important. 我们从心理学层面上讲过恢复
We talked about recovery on the psychological level. 恢复很重要
Recovery is very important. 我简要地和你们分享一下Derek Clayton的故事吧
Let me share with you just a quick story about Derek Clayton. Derek Clayton是60年代早期的一个长跑运动员
Derek Clayton was a runner in the early 60s, 世界上最好的长跑运动员之一
one of the best long distance runners in the world. 最好的之一 并不是最好的
One of the best- not the best. 他是跑马拉松的
He ran marathons. 很多人说 他之所以不是最好的
And the reason why he wasn't the best,many people said,well, 是因为从身体上讲 他不太适合跑马拉松
because physically he wasn't that fit or suitable for marathons. 他身高六尺二 1米88
He was 6 ft 2 in,tall- 1 meter 88. 并且他的最大心率
His veil too max,his maximum heart... 最大血液溶氧量不是很高
maximum oxygen capacity was not that high, 没有其他世界级选手那么高
as high as the top runners in the world. 但他的优势在于
But what he had going for him was that 他是最勤奋的一个
he was the hardest worker on the circuit. 他每周跑一百多英里
He would run in excess of 100 miles a week. 远远多于一百多英里 非常努力
Way over 100 miles a week.Worked very hard. 抱歉 我写下来了的
Sorry.I wrote it down. 对 每周一百多英里
Yeah,over 100 miles each week. 于是他成为了世界最好的长跑运动员之一
And he became one of the best runners in the world, 但从来没成为过真正的第一
but never got to be at the very best. 然后发生什么了呢 由于他的过度刻苦勤奋
And then what happened? Because of his hard work,over-exertion, 他受了很严重的伤
he got injured quite seriously 一整个月不能跑步
and couldn't run for a whole month, 他当时正在准备非常重要的一项马拉松赛事
as he was training for one of the most important marathons in- 这个马拉松在日本举行
this marathon was in Japan. 一整个月他都不能训练
So for a whole month,couldn't train. 走路都走不了
Hardly walked. 在比赛一周之前 他开始可以慢慢地跑
About a week before,he started just very lightly jogging. 他说他会去日本跑的
And he said he'll run in Japan. 他被邀请去参加了 他是世界最好的长跑运动员之一
He was invited there.He was one of the best runners in the world. 他说他会将其作为一次训练
He said he'll use it as a training run, 作为下一次马拉松比赛训练的一部分
as part of his training regime for the next marathon. 于是他去参加了这个马拉松
So he comes to this marathon, 一个月没有训练
having not trained for over a month, 结果提前八分钟打破他的个人记录
breaks his best personal records by 8 minutes 成为历史上第一个仅用了
and becomes the first person in history to run a marathon 两小时十分钟跑完马拉松的人
in under 2 hours and 10 minutes. 两小时9分36秒
Running it in 2 hours 9 minutes and 36 seconds. 1967年
1967. 他继续努力训练 两年之后再次训练过度
Continues to train hard.2 years later,over-trains again. 又再次受伤
Gets injured again. 又一次他没法跑步
And once again,for over a month he can't run at all 然后他去参加了比利时马拉松比赛
and then enters the Belgium marathon. 又打破了他的个人记录 也打破了世界记录
Breaks his own personal best,breaks the world record: 两小时8分33秒
2 hours 8 minute and 33 seconds, 世界纪录 保持了12年的世界纪录
a world record,world best that holds for 12 years. 这时教练和运动员就开始明白
This is when trainers and athletes began to understand 适可而止的重要性 适当休息的重要性
the importance of tapering,the importance of taking time off, 恢复的重要性
the importance of recovery. 有时过犹不及
There can be too much of a good thing. 很相似的故事 Joan Benoit
Very similar story.Joan Benoit. 最终赢得了1984年洛杉矶马拉松
Ended up winning the 1984 Los Angeles Marathon 在受伤了 被迫休息之后
after having been injured and having,was forced to take time off 还有丹麦足球队
The Danish Soccer team. 另一个例子 我想应该是1991年
Another example.I think that's 1991. 最终赢得了欧冠
Ended up winning the European Championship 之前都没在比赛中
after being out of the competition, 在最后一刻才加入
being brought in the last minute 因为当时南斯拉夫正搞分裂
because Yugoslavia was just breaking apart at the time. 于是他们作为了南斯拉夫的替补
So they came in as a replacement for Yugoslavia, 在预选赛淘汰了之后
literally taking the Danish team 把丹麦队又找过来
after it was eliminated from prelims, 把他们从沙滩上带来打冠军赛
bringing them from the beach to play the tournament. 因为他们恢复了 振作了 于是他们准备好了
But they had recovered,they were refresh,they were ready to go. 恢复在运动中很重要
Recovery is important in sports. 在心理层面同样很重要
It's important on the psychological level. 锻炼是很好的 是一种灵药
OK.So exercise is good.It's the wonder drug. 鸡尾酒的第一个成分
The first part of the cocktail, 我觉得算是最重要的成分
I would argue,well,one of the most important ones. 然而很多人 不仅仅在哈佛
And yet,most people,not at Harvard necessary, 世界上很多人都不锻炼
but most people around the world don't exercise. 为了将定期锻炼引入我们的生活
What are some of the barriers that we need to overcome 我们要跨越怎样的障碍
in order to introduce exercise regularly into our lives? 首先 这是痛苦的
First,it is painful. 锻炼不是件舒服的事
It's not comfortable to exercise 比如说到达70%最大心率的锻炼
at say 70 percent of our maximum heart rate. 并不会很痛 但显然没有坐在电视机前
Doesn't hurt that much,but it's more comfortable to sit 或者玩任天堂舒服
in front of the television or play Nintendo. 那我们该怎么办
So what do we do? 我们要做的第一件事就是把目标分割 各个攻破
The first thing that we can do is divide and conquer. 尤其是完美主义者会做的一件事就是
One of the things that especially perfectionists do is that "我要开始锻炼了
"OK,so I'm going to start exercising. 为了保持健康 我每天要跑六英里
And to be fit,I need to do 6 miles a day. 所以我一开始就要每天跑六英里"
And that's what I'm going to start running.6 miles a day." 很快会怎样呢
And of course what happens very quickly? 第二天你起床就会全身酸痛
The next day you get up and you are hurt. 但你是个完美主义者
But you are a perfectionist. 你很坚强 一分耕耘一分收获
You are tough.No pain,no gain. 于是你又出去跑步
And you go out for a run again. 然后会怎样呢 你第二天更疼
And what happens? You hurt even more the next day. 但你咬牙忍着疼痛
But you push through the pain. 几个星期之后你就会受伤
After a few weeks,you get injured. 但即使你不受伤 在你脑海中
But even if you don't get injured,the schema that is created 关于锻炼的概念是这样的
in your mind about exercise is the following. "锻炼就等于痛苦"
It is "exercise equals pain". 我们的意识是拒绝痛苦的 它总是极力避免痛苦
Now our mind does not like pain.And it tries to avoid pain. 比如说你去度了个假 中断了你的锻炼计划
So let's say you go on a holiday.You stop your exercise regime. 中断了一个星期或者两个星期
You stop your exercise regime for a week or two weeks. 然后你回来了
And you come back. 想重新开始锻炼就变得更难
It becomes exceedingly difficult to go back exercising. 为什么 因为你的思想 你的潜意识会说
Why? Because you mind,subconscious mind says, "我不想再经受这个了"
"I don't want to experience this again." 这会阻止你锻炼 使你瘫痪
And it prevents you.It paralyzes you. 这通常就是拖延症发生的时候
This is very often the procrastination that comes through. 因为我们不想经历这种痛苦
Because we don't want to experience that pain. 一种更健康的方式是
A much healthier approach is to say "OK. "我先从走路开始
So I'll start with walking for a mile. 走十分钟 二十分钟的路
For 10 minutes,20 minutes walk. 坚持一到两个星期 然后逐渐增加
Do it for a week or two weeks.And then build it up gradually. 宁可少也不要过度
And again,earn the side of doing too little rather than too much 因为那样锻炼
Because then exercise, 如果我逐渐增加 就不是种痛苦
if I build it up gradually,is not about pain. 它逐渐会成瘾
Overtime it even becomes sort of addictive 从积极的角度来看
in a positive sense of word, 我们想去做它 我们渴望它
that we want to do it,that we long for it. 所以要慢慢来 同时要应用让你分心的事物
So doing it gradually.Also use distracters. 当我在蹦床上跳时
When I jump on my trampoline- 在外面跑是不会有问题的
when I run outside,I have no problem- 但在蹦床上跳时 我就要用一些分心的事物
but when I jump on my trampoline,I have to add distracters. 我觉得蹦床太无聊了
It is so boring for me. 有的人可能会去骑一小时自行车
Again,some people can be on the bike for an hour. 那样也没问题
And they are fine. 我更喜欢冥想 这很好
For me it's meditation and that's great. 但很多人需要让他分心的事物 不管是音乐
But many people need distracters,whether it's music, 还是电视 还是小孩子在周围跑来跑去
whether it's TV,whether it's my kids running around, 但总要找些分散你注意力的事
but having something that keeps us going. 社会支持
Social support. 长期锻炼成功的最好预测方法就是
The No.1 predictor of exercise success for the long term 我是否是和其他人一起做的
is do I do it with other people; 有没有给我社会支持
do I have the social support to do it. 再次强调这不是对每个人都有用的
And once again,this is not right for everyone. 对有些人来说更好的方式是
There are certain people for whom the right thing 他们自己去做
is to do it by themselves. 有可能的情况是
This is the time, 尤其是内向的人 更喜欢自己去做
especially introverts will enjoy just being on their own. 闭上眼睛 听着音乐	
Just closing their eyes,listening to their music, 或者听着心跳
or listening to their heart rate,whatever it... 心跳的声音
You know heart beating. 他们会想要独自一个人的时间 这是没问题的
But they want time by themselves.And that's fine. 但对大多数人来说 社会支持是有益的 还有个研究
But for most people social support helps.Here is the study. 由Wing和Jerry 两名心理学家完成的
This is done by Wing and Jerry,two psychologists. 他们所做的是让人参与一个为期四月的项目
What they did was introduce individuals to a 4 month program 包括行为改变 包括饮食改变
that included behavioral change,that included diet change 包括锻炼上的改变 为期四月
and that included exercise change for 4 months. 分为两种情况 一种是有社会的支持
The two conditions were either with social support- 和你的朋友或者家人一起做
doing it with your friend and a family member, 或者没有社会支持
or without social support. 那些没有社会支持 自己完成的人
Those without social support,who did it by themselves, 有76%的人完成了这个为期四月的项目
76 percent completed the 4 month program 有24%的人还保持到了六个月
and 24 percent were still doing it 6 months later. 76%保持了四个月
So 76 percent did it during the 4 months; 只有24% 不到四分之一的人 保持到了六个月
24 percent only,less than a quarter,did it 6 months later. 能够保持行为上的 锻炼上的 以及饮食上的改变
Kept up with the behavioral,exercise as well as diet change. 有他人支持的一组
The group that had social support, 95%完成了四个月的项目
95 percent completed the 4 months. 95%而不是76%
95 as opposed to the 76 percent. 同时67%的人维持了这个计划
And 67 percent continued with the regime 保持到了六个月以后
once the study was over for 6 months later. 也就是成功的可能性大大地增加了
So it enhanced the likelihood of success a great deal. 再给你们看一个社会支持的例子
Let me show you one last example of social support. 录像
[VIDEO] 这不是我想说的意思
OK.So this is not exactly what I mean. 但社会支持确实是有帮助的
But social support helps. 所以如果你还没开始 那就从今天开始吧
So start if you haven't started,start today. 周四见
I'll see you on Thursday. [掌声]
[Applause] 



 Chapter 16: 运动与冥想


大家可能已经听说了
Students:OK.So as many of you may have already heard, 美国防癌协会生命接力募捐活动
the American Cancer Society Fund Raiser Relay for Life 定于今周五晚在Gordon田径场举行
is this Friday day night at Gordon Track. 本次活动旨在引起公众关注
The event increases awarenesses 并为防癌宣传 研究 治疗筹集资金
and raises money for cancer education,research and treatment. 我们随时欢迎大家的参与
It's not too late to get involved either. 大家可以在线注册，为参赛者捐款
By registering online,donating to a participant 或者出席观看赛事 了解活动
or showing upat the event to see what it's all about. 本次活动为大家准备了啤酒游戏
At the event,we will have Root Beer Beirut, 无伴奏合唱 乐队表演 接力赛小姐选举
Accapella and band performances,and Miss Relay pageant, 还有电影和游戏
and movies and games 最后大家都会沿着跑道走一圈
and all the wild people will be walking last round the track, 藉此缅怀被癌症夺去生命的人
remember those lost, 为癌症生还者庆祝 并展望未来
celebrate survivors and hope for a future here. 请大家查看邮件
Look up for emails 浏览我们的Foocbook小组 了解更多
and check out our Facebook group for more information. 希望到时能见到大家，谢谢
I hope to see you all there.Thanks. 大家早上好
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: Hi.Good morning. 我们接着讲上节课没讲完的内容
We are going to pick up where we are left of last time. 开始讲之前 上节课后有同学来找我
But before we do,a few of you came to me after the class 问我有没有其他的运动选择
and asked about alternative form of exercise. 我上次讲的研究 希望大家也去看看
So the study that I gave and also what you read- 就是Callaghan等人写的那篇文章
the article by Callaghan and others, 里面侧重讲的是有氧运动
is mostly about aerobic exercise. 我之前也提过
And as I mentioned earlier, 做这运动的目的是缓和高强度运动
this is about moderate intensity workout, 做这种运动 你会达到最大心率的70%
which would mean if you want to work with pulse about 70 percent, 大约在最大心率的65%到75%之间
between 65 and 75 percent of your maximum heart rate- 大家搜索心率运动
again you just Google heart rate exercise, 就能马上得到想查的各种心率表
you'll immediately get all the tables that you need. 这是其中一种运动形式
But that's one form of exercise. 有些同学问
Some of you asked, "举重训练行不行 间歇训练行不行?"
"what about weight training? What about interval training?" 快跑 休息 再快跑 再休息
So sprints and stop.Sprints and stop. 这种是划艇队经常做的训练
Something that you know the crew team does often, 运动员经常做的训练
athletes do often. 这些运动行不行?
What about this form? 我上节课没有专门提出
The reason why I didn't bring it up explicitly in the lecture is 是因为目前对其他的运动还没有定论
because the jury is still out on the different forms of exercise. 我可以告诉大家
But let me tell you 目前在研究中发现的一些趋势
what are some of the trends that we see in research. 目前看来
Right now it seems that 如果你只能做一种运动
if there's only one form of exercise that you do, 那么最佳选择
the best bank for the buck, 时间最花得其所的是有氧运动
best value for your time would be aerobic exercise. 理想地每周三四次半小时的有氧运动
3,ideally 4 times,30 minutes of aerobic exercise a week. 这是最低要求
That's at minimum. 但是
However,however, 如果你还能做举重训练以补充
if you can also do weight training and supplement the physic... 有氧运动 那也很好
the aerobic exercise,that's terrific.That's great. 一周两三次举动训练非常好
Twice a week,3 times of weight training is great, 尤其是年纪大了以后
especially as you get older. 举重训练更加有用
That...Weight training contributes more. 但在年轻时 举重训练也很好
But also at a very young age,weight training is good. 但是 它不能代替有氧运动
However,it is not a replacement for aerobic exercise. 研究发现它改善心理健康的效果
It hasn't shown to have the same psychological effect 不如有氧运动
as aerobic exercise does. 另外一种运动 在经过研究后…
The other form of exercise and it has been studied- 我要重申 这些都是初步结果
again these are all tentative results; 有人对这种运动做过初步研究
there've been pilot studies about it. 最后结果
The ends, 因为样本不足 暂时无法下确切结论
the sample sizes are not large enough yet to say definitively, 但我们可以确切地说有氧运动
just like we can say about aerobic exercise, 产生的效果能媲美
it has similar effect 一些强效精神病药物
to some of our most powerful psychiatric drugs. 这个结论是确切的 有大量研究来支持
That's definitive- there are tons of studies on it 包括Babyak2000年以来的研究 以及之前的
ever since Babyak in 2000 as well as before. 另一种开始被研究的运动
But another form of exercise that has begun to be studied 得出可喜的结果 那就是间歇运动
with some very promising results is interval training. 间歇运动就是 以跑步为例子
Interval training would be,say,running at, 达到最大心率的90%到95%
between 90 and 95 percent of your maximum heart rate. 如果你20岁 你最大心率就是200
So if you are 20,your maximum heart rate would be,would be 200, 计算公式是220减去年龄
because it's 220 minus your age. 所以你跑步的心率要达到180到190
Then you need to be running at around at 180 to 190 pulse rate, 强度非常高
which is hard,which is tough, 不能持续很长时间
which you can't do for a very long time. 但如果能持续30秒到一分钟
But doing it for as little as 30 seconds up to a minute 然后休息
and then resting, 让你的心率下降到最大心率的60%
letting your heart rate go back down to 60 percent 也就是120 然后重复这个间歇运动
of its maximum say 120,and then doing another interval. 有初步研究表明这种运动
That has been shown with pilot studies only 能产生显著效果
to have remarkable effects. 通常效果甚至比单纯做有氧运动更大
In fact,often more powerful than aerobic exercise on its own, 而且持续时间更长
and lasts for even longer- the effect. 所以 再说回来
So- again, 我没有在课堂上正式介绍这种运动
I did not introduce it officially as part of the class, 但很多同学问起 所以现在介绍一下
but since many of you asked,I am introducing it. 因为我只想给大家介绍
Because I want to introduce you only things 那些有确切结论的运动
that are with very robust results. John Ratey也谈过这种运动
John Ratey talks about this. 我等一下会讲John Ratey
And I'll talk a little bit about John Ratey in a minute. 他是哈佛医学院的精神医生
He's the Harvard Medical psychatrist 可以说他是一个前沿的倡导者
who is probably the leading proponent in research 在研究运动和精神健康这个领域
in the area of exercise and mental health. 他本身…虽然目前的结果是初步的
And he himself- even though the results are still tentative, 但他一周会做两次间歇运动
he introduces two interval trainings a week. 除了一周做六天运动以外
So in addition to working out six days a week, 其中两天还会做全速短跑 休息
two of them include full out sprinting,rest, 全速短跑 休息
full out sprinting,rest. 研究表明即使没有做够30分钟
And what they've shown was that even less time than 30 minutes, 但还能得到同等的效果
you can get the same effect, 同等的甚至更好的心理效果
the same psychological effect and even better. 我一周也会做两次间歇运动
What I do twice a week: I introduce interval training. 所以 举个例子
So for example, 今天早上我在蹦床上跳了30分钟
this morning when I was on my trampoline,I did it for 30 minutes. 在这30分钟里 我还做了4个短跑
And out of the 30 minutes,there were 4 sprints. 没错
Indeed.(Laughter) 你们不相信我会跳蹦床 是吧?
You don't believe that I do trampoline,do you? 我下次拍下来 还是不要了
I'll videotape it and I'll...Maybe not.Maybe not. 4次短跑 我戴着心率监测仪
So 4 sessions of sprints,and I have my heart monitor on, 快速跑一段 我的心率大约是165
going all way- for me it's about 165 heart rate, 165到170之间 然后休息 下降到110
between 165 and 170,and then resting,going back to about 110, 少于我最大心率的60%
which is less than 60 percent of my maximum, 如此重复四次
and then doing it four times. 这30分钟里其余的时间
And for the rest of the 30 minutes, 我只做缓和的有氧运动
I just do moderate aerobic exercise. 所以我也做间歇运动
So I also introduce the interval training. 举重训练就比较少做 因为我做瑜伽时
The weight training I do less of,because I get that from Yoga- 就有这种加强体能的效果
a lot of the strengthening exercises. 但最重要的一点是
The most important thing though that 我想说 间歇运动
I do want to say about interval training 特别是对于完美主义者来说
is that, especially for perfectionists, 很容易导致训练过度
it's very easy to over-train. 大家最好不要达到最大心率
You don't want to get to your maximum heart rate 并且持续一段长时间 即使你做得来
and keep it there for a long time,even if you can. 更多并不意味着更好
More does not necessarily mean better. 再说一次 除非你是备战奥运
Again,unless you are training for Olympics, 这种情况下有时你就要达到
in which case you do want to get to 100%的最高心率
100 percent of your maximum heart rate at times, 想练出最健康的身体 达到90%…
for maximum health you want to get to 90 percent, 最大心率的95%就行了
maximum 95 percent of your maximum heart rate, 所以戴上心率监测仪就很有用
which is why a heart rate monitor can help so much. 因为它能告诉你 运动是否强度太大
Because it can tell you when you are working too hard 或者强度不足
or when it's too easy. 总之 换换花样有助于运动
Bottom line: variety is good for exercise. 你可以跳舞 这也是好运动
If you can introduce dancing,it's great exercise. 你可以 偶尔去健身室健身
If you can introduce,once in a while working in the gym, 偶尔打篮球
once in a while playing basketball, 划艇 花样越多越好
rowing- the more variety,the better. 只要保证 至少对我们来说 一周四次
But the foundation: at least we,ideally 4 times a week, 一次30分钟的有氧运动
30 minutes of aerobic exercise. 上节课我们讲到克服障碍
So we stopped last time with overcoming barriers. 其中一些障碍包括
And some of the barriers are that 伴随运动而来的疼痛 使运动更难了
it's difficult there are some pain associated with it, 即使你只达到最大心率的70%
even if you are at 70 percent of your heart rate. 运动引起不适
It's still uncomfortable. 克服不适的最简单方法就是进入状态
And ways to deal with it is at least as you get into it, 因为通常我们跑步进入一种状态后
cause very often we enter the zone when we start to run, 我们就感受不到不适了
we don't feel the difficulty any more. 但必须开了头才行
But at least the beginning is important. 找别人来支持你克服困难 慢慢适应
Have social support to divide and conquer,to build gradually, 用一些东西分散注意力 例如电视 MP3
and to have distracters,such as TV,and your MP3, 能分散注意力就行了
and whatever it is. 另一个障碍
Another barrier- and this one is, 很不幸 这个障碍在校园很普遍
unfortunately very common here on campus, 那就是我们没有时间
is just we don't have time. 大家知道 在高中
You know in high school, 我经常去高中演讲
I do give a lot of talks in high schools,and 我注意到的其中一件事是 通常
one of the things that I see there is that students generally, 很多高中要求学生参加团队活动
in many high schools actually have to be part of a team. 他们除了体育课做运动以外
They have to,in addition to doing physical exercise,PE, 还要参加团队活动
they also have to be part of a team. 所以他们运动得更多 虽然还是不够
So they get not enough,but more exercise, 但是我们读大学第一件放弃的事
whereas one of the first things that go in college, 尤其是那些不参加团队活动的学生
especially or only for students who do not play on the team, 我们放弃的第一件事是运动
one of the first things that go is exercise. 我没有时间 我有很多事要做
I don't have time.I have so many things that I want to do. 大学是一个新世界
It's a new world. 在考试期间 大家也首先就放弃运动
Well,it's also the first things that goes during exam period, 因为我压力太大了
because I'm so stressed. 我有太多事要做了
I have so many things to do. 其实 最不能放弃的是运动
Well,it should be the last thing to go. 最不能放弃的是运动
It should be the last thing to go. 为什么?因为它是一项投资
Why? Because it is an investment. 虽然你失去了45分钟
You may be losing the 45 minutes. 你知道
You know, 运动30分钟 之后洗个澡　我推荐大家这么做
working out for 30 minutes and showering after which I recommend. 虽然你失去了45分钟
You may lose that 45 minutes. 但你获得了更多 这时间花得其所
But you'll gain so much more.It's such a good investment. 为什么?因为做运动 记忆力提高
Why? Because your memory actually gets better when you exercise. 所以你更能充分利用学习时间
So you'll get more buck for the bank in terms of time you study; 你的创造力提高了 精神更集中
your creativity levels go up; your concentration, 不管你是否有多动症 有就更要运动了
whether you have ADD or not,especially if you have 或者你有患多动症的趋势
or you have a tendency toward ADD or ADHD, 即使对于没有多动症的人来说
but even for people without it, 运动也能大大提高注意力集中
concentration goes up significantly. 活力显著提高 所以这时间花得其所
Energy levels go up significantly.So it's a very good investment. 大家还记得我讲过
Remember I told you the story 壁球赛季末我停止运动的事吗?
when I stopped exercising at the end of the squash season? 突然我觉得我有了很多时间
And suddenly I said,"oh I have so much time." 但我完成的工作反而少了
And I ended up getting so much less done. 第一因为我的生活规律打乱了
A,because I don't have the rituals; 第二因为我注意力没那么集中了
and B,because I wasn't as focused, 我创造力下降了 活力下降了
I wasn't as creative,I wasn't as energized. 最不能放弃的是运动
It should be the last thing to go,especially, 尤其是在考试期间这种压力大的时候
especially during a stressful period such as exam period. 克服时间不足这个问题
One way to overcome the time commitment again 不能靠自律
is not relying on self-discipline. 我们之前已经讲过了
We have established that before; 我们看过那个研究 人的自律是有限的
we saw the research- we have a limited amount of self-discipline. 我们要自己形成规律
Create rituals where, 例如一周中有三个早上做运动
say,3 mornings during the week you'll do it; 如果下午晚上才有空 那也行
or if a good time for you is the afternoon or evening, 形成一个时间规律
but have a ritual around it. 另一个阻碍定期运动的障碍
Another barrier to exercising regularly- 是一个有趣但经常被忽视的障碍
this is an interesting one and often overlooked 这个障碍非常强大 潜意识障碍
but extremely powerful- and that is the subconscious barrier. Nathaniel Branden谈过这点
Nathaniel Branden talks about this 我在我的书中也略谈过 引用了他的话
and I talked about it a little bit in my book,quoting him. 他谈到自尊
He talks about self-esteem and 自尊隐含了一个概念:我们值得拥有幸福
part of self-esteem is the notion that we are worthy of happiness 值得拥有幸福
The notion of being worthy of happiness. 当你问别人"你值得拥有幸福吗?"
And when you ask people,"are you worthy of happiness?" 大部人会说"值得" 但在潜意识中
Most people would say,"yes." But if you ask the subconscious, 通常很多人都会说"不值得"
very often,for many people,it's "no", 可能因为脑袋里有一把声音说"不值得"
whether it's because of the voice that we heard in the past 因为过去老师 教育工作者 父母 重要的大人
from teachers,educators,parents,significant adults, 社会大众都要我们向不现实的榜样看齐
society at large by comparing us to unrealistic models. 所以通常在我们潜意识里有一把声音说
But very often we have this voice,the subconscious level that "我不值得拥有幸福"
"we are not really worthy of happiness". 这是一个障碍 使我们无法更快乐
And that is a barrier; that stops us from becoming happier. 我们知道运动的其中一个作用就是
Now one of the things that we know of exercise is that 可以说它是让我们变幸福的最强效药物
it's one of the- if not the most power drug for making us happier 我知道运动使人幸福 使人感觉良好
Now I know that exercise makes me happier; it makes me feel good. 但如果我的潜意识认为
But if my subconscious thinks that 我不值得拥有这些感觉 不值得幸福
I'm unworthy of these feelings,unworthy of being happy, 它可能阻止我运动
it may in fact stop me from exercising. 为什么?因为 大家回忆一下
Why? Because remember, 意识不喜欢
mind doesn't like when there is an inconsistency 潜意识与外界不一致
between what's inside and what's outside. 如果我潜意识认为"不应该快乐"
And if what's inside is saying "shouldn't be happy" 我就会听从我的潜意识
then I try to match it to what's inside. 我就不会运动
And I don't exercise. 因为我运动的话 就会与潜意识不一致
Because if I do exercise,then there will be a disconnect- 我会比潜意识认为的更幸福
I'll be happier than I think I'm worthy of. 在这个问题上有过很多研究
There's a lot of research on this. 例如 心理学家Bill Swann
For example,by psychologist Bill Swann, 讲过自我确认理论
who talks about self-confirmation theory, 这是我们意识里一股很强大的力量
which is a very powerful force within us. 我们意识里有自我提高
There's a self-enhancement, 我们想在别人和自己眼里表现出好的一面
that we want to appear good in other people's eyes,in our eyes, 但还有一股反作用力 就是自我确认
but there is a counter-force,which is self-confirmation 我们想确认对自己的了解是否属实
where we want to confirm whatever we think about ourselves. 如果我们认为自己不值得幸福
And if we think we are not worthy of happiness, 通常我们就不会做让自己幸福的事
we very often not do things that actually make us happy. 在其他方面也存在 例如在恋情中
We see it in other areas- in relationships,for example. 如果我认为我不值得拥有好伴侣
If I think I'm unworthy of a wonderful partner, 不值得在恋情中得到幸福
of being happy in relationships, 通常我就会在潜意识里
very often I'll often inadvertently subconscious working here, 破坏这段恋情
jeopardize the relationship 积极寻找恋情中不顺利的地方
and look for things that are not working,actively, 潜意识中寻找方法伤害这段恋情
subconsciously look for ways of hurting the relationship. 所以我们需要注意这些潜意识力量
So we need to be aware of the subconscious level. 通常它能影响我们会不会去做运动
And very much it applies to whether or not we exercise. 我们该拿它怎么办?最好的办法就是运动
So what do we do with this? A best thing to do is to just do it. 再一次说回来 把它规律化
Again,ritualize it. 不要分析太多 尽管去运动就行了
Not analyze it too much.Just go ahead and exercise. 你知道一周三四次运动对你有益 尽管去做
You know 3,4 times a week is good for you,just do it. 再一次说到 即想即做法
And again it's the five-minute take-off that 潜意识会告诉你
subconscious mind will try to tell you, "不要做 你没时间 还有别的事要做
"don't do it.You don't have the time.There are other things. 你明天再做 你下周再开始定期运动"
You'll do it tomorrow.Next week you'll start the regime." 为了达到目的 潜意识会很聪明地
The subconscious mind is very smart in its attempt,and 用尽各种方法 几乎能使你的行动听从潜意识
will do anything that it can almost to create this congruency. 当你出去运动时 你就让自己看到
When you go out and exercise and you show yourself, "是的 我值得拥有幸福"
"yes I'm worthy of happiness." 通常潜意识就会听从这个想法
Very often the subconscious mind will follow suit. 所以尽管去运动
So just do it. 第二个是认识 这是认知层面的
The second thing is recognize.This is on the cognitive level. 认识运动的重要性
Recognize how important physical exercise is. 大家回忆Martin Seligman说的"大部分人都专注于脖子以上"
Remember what Martin Seligman said,"we mostly focus on neck up"- 心理学家是这样
and we do it as psychologists, 学术机构里的学生是这样
we do it as students in academic institution, 尤其是在这样的学校里
especially in a place like this. 大过专注于思考和认知
So much about thinking and cognition. 你们也正因此才能考上哈佛 才能成功
That's how you got here.That's how you were successful. 但专注于脖子以下 也同样重要
But it's no less important to think about neck down. 事实上 要获得幸福 脑袋的作用
In fact,the mind alone can only take us so far 是有限的 所以我要告诉大家
when it comes to happiness,which is why I told you 如果我是心理医生 我治人的第一件事就是
if I were a therapist,a pre-requisite for me to treat people 要求他们运动
would be to have them exercise regularly. 因为我不想违抗自然
Because I don't want to fight nature. 我想借助自然的力量来治人
I want to work with nature and build on it. 很大程度上 运动
Exercise in many ways 是心理治疗中的"无名英雄"
is the "unsung hero" of the psychological interventions. 它在很多方面都发挥了作用
It helps on so many levels. John Ratey 刚才提过他
John Ratey- mentioned him; 哈佛医学院教授 精神病医生 "某种程度上
Harvard Medical School professor,psychiatrist: "In a way, 它能对付焦虑症 恐慌症 普通的压力
It works on anxiety,on panic disorder,and on stress in general, 压力和抑郁症有莫大关联
which has a lot to do with depression. 运动能释放神经递质
And it generates the release of neurotransmitters- 去甲肾上腺素 血清素 多巴胺
norepinephrine,serotonin,and dopamine- 这些物质与重要精神类药物相似
that are very similar to our most important psychiatric medicines 做一轮运动就像吃了一点百忧解
Having a bout of exercise is like taking a little bit of Prozac 一点利他林 针对性很强"
and a little bit of Ritalin,right where it is supposed to go." 正确的分量 正确的身体部位
The exact right amount of it.The exact right location. 没有副作用
And without side effects, 也有副作用 积极的副作用
or with side effects- positive side effects, 身体 精神 和情绪的副作用
physical as well as mental and emotional side effects. John Ratey在他的一本很棒的书中呼吁
What John Ratey is calling for in his wonderful,wonderful book- 这本书今年一月份刚刚出版
just came out recently in this January- 他呼吁发起运动革命
what he calls for is an exercise revolution. 对于这个呼吁
And he backs up this 他用了大量科学证据来证明它的重要性
call with a lot of scientific evidence of why it is so important. 我给大家讲他谈到的一个方面
Let me show you just one area that he talks about. 他谈到各种年龄层
He talks about all ages. 孩子 成年人 还有老人
He talks about kids,adults,as well as the elderly population. 运动对每个年龄层都有积极作用 从0到120岁
And it has positive effects for every age,from 0 to 120. 我给大家讲几个研究和发现
Let me talk about a couple of studies and findings 这些研究是在学校推广运动
that were implement-that exercise was implemented in schools. 有几间学校实行把运动
So there are a few schools that introduce physical exercise 作为一门必修课程
as an integral part of the curriculum. 例如 这个方法已经有几间学校效仿了
For example,and this is,has been replicated in a few schools- 每天早上 做45分钟的运动
every morning,45 minutes of some form of exercise- 通常是跑步 有时划船 骑自行车 爬山
usually running,sometimes rowing,cycling,climbing. 新泽西州有一间学校
There is a school in New Jersey 甚至在运动场安装了一面攀爬墙
that actually put a climbing wall where students exercised. 一些有氧运动
But some form of the aerobic exercise, 有时换换花样 做间歇运动
sometimes intertwined with interval training. 每天早上在上课前 45分钟运动
Every morning,before school,45 minutes a day. 有些学校安排在上午以后
Some of the schools had it later during the day; 大部分学校安排在早上
most of them in the mornings. 这里就是其中一些学校得到的成效
Here are some of the results from some of the schools 那些推行运动的学校
that actually introduced it: 肥胖水平下降 这是意料之内的
obesity levels,not surprising,went down. 例如在伊利诺斯州的Naperville区
For example in Naperville in Illinois,in the district 那里的学校推广运动
there where physical exercise was introduced in school,- 这种做法很有趣 因为大部分学校
which is by the way interesting because in most schools... 昨天我在Horace Mann演讲
Just yesterday I gave a talk at Horace Mann 那里的老师告诉我
and the teachers told me that 纽约很多学校
in many of these schools in New York, 都取消运动训练了
physical exercise has been taken out 而不是提倡做更多运动
rather than more of it is introduces- 运动训练和艺术课都取消了
physical exercise and art both taken out. 为什么?为了考高分 专注于脖子以上
Why? Because they have to get the grades- neck up. 这样很可悲 他们因此付出了代价
And that's a pity.And they pay a price. Naperville的学校的肥胖水平下降
So obesity in a school in Naperville 或者说伊利诺斯州的Naperville区
or in the district of Naperville in Illinois, 肥胖水平下降
obesity levels went down 在学生中 从30%降到3%
from 30 percent to 3 percent among the students. 这不仅对学生目前的生活有影响
That has repercussions not just for the students lives there- 他们身体更舒服了 心情更快乐了
that they are more comfortable,that they are happier; 对他们以后的生活也有影响
it has repercussions and consequences for the rest of their lives. 他们不再那么易于
They are much less susceptible 患上慢性疾病 例如癌症 心脏病
and prone to the chronic illnesses such as cancer,heart failure. 从很多方面来看都是双赢的
It's a win-win on so many level. 患糖尿病的可能性也降低了
Much less susceptible to diabetics. 这是肥胖症方面的效果
So that's obesity. 他们在Naperville区还发现了
What they also find in Naperville is that 分数大大的提高了
the grades went up significantly. 其实美国学生通常
In fact,usually the US doesn't do very well, 在国际测试中表现并不是很出色
doesn't do very well when it comes to those international tests, 八年级考的那些数学和科学考试
maths and science tests that they do I think usually at 8th grade 但Naperville是一个例外
Well,Naperville is an exception. 他们的数学成绩全世界排16名
They scored No.16 in the world in mathematics 科学成绩全世界排第一名
and No.1 in the world in science. 有些人会反驳说
Now people argue that Naperville是一个富人区 确实如此
Naperville is an affluent neighborhood or district and it's true. 那其他地方呢?
How about other places? 一些很穷的内陆城市也推行了运动
Well they introduced exercise in very poor areas,in inner cities 例如
For example, 宾夕法尼亚州Titusville 很多人都低于
in Titusville,Pennsylvania,where many people are way below, 平均工资远远低于这个州的平均工资
the average is way below the average income for the state. 在推行运动之前 学校的教学成绩
When before they introduced the exercise,school performance- 远远低于州的平均水平
they were significantly below state average, 宾夕法尼亚州的平均水平
Pennsylvania's average. 推行运动一年后
After introducing exercise within a year, 成绩比州平均水平高17%
they went up to 17 percent above state average. 当年学校唯一的变化
With the only change being there in that year- 就是推行了运动训练
introducing physical exercise. 其他地区的学校也发现同样现象
They've seen this in other schools in other districts as well. 同时还发现在Titusville那所学校
And what they also saw in the same school, 他们发现 例如打架斗殴
in Titusville,that fist fights,for example they noticed, 因为推行运动训练 暴力完全消失
violence disappeared completely as a result of the exercise, 而在爱荷华州一间学校也发现
while they found also in a school in Iowa 在推行运动训练后
where they introduced physical exercise, 一年内纪律问题从225宗降到95宗
disciplinary problems went down from 225 to 95 in one year. 在另一间堪萨斯州学校里 也是内陆城市
In another school in Kansas,also inner city, 纪律问题下降了67%
disciplinary problems went down by 67 percent 这些都是在推行了运动训练以后
after they introduced exercise. 暴力变少了 运动使我们平静
We are much less likely to be violent; it calms us; 使我们的身体处于自然状态
it brings us to our natural state of being, 这种状态更为平静 而不是苦闷愤怒
which is much calmer as opposed to being angry and upset. 人们需要释放那股怒气
And people need to let out that steam. 很不幸的是 通常
Unfortunately very often 人们都通过打架斗殴来释放
that steam is let out in fights with aggression. 用运动将它转换成健康的活力更加有益身心
And this is a much healthier way to divert that healthy energy. 我给大家看一段我最喜欢的一部电影
Let me show you a clip from one of my favorite movies, 《律政俏佳人》
Legally Blonde. 在这个镜头里
And it's the part where 一个女人刚刚被控谋杀亲夫
a woman is just being charged with the murder of her husband.And 我们的法学院校友瑞茜·威瑟斯彭为她辩护
our very own law school graduate Reese Witherspoon defends her. 糟了 我找找看 谢谢
Whoops! Let me get to it.Thank you. 视频 律政 找到了
Videos.Legally...Here it is. (律政俏佳人片段)
[VIDEO- Clip from "Legally Blonde"] 我们要为Brooke Windham辩护 她的有钱丈夫
We're defending Brooke Windham,whose very wealthy husband 被发现死在他们的Beacon Hill大宅里
was found shot to death in their Beacon Hill mansion. 挖金女?
Gold digger? 这样想也不奇怪 那老头都60了
You'd think so since the stiff was sixty, 但她自己也很有钱
but she was rich on her own. 拥有一间庞大的健身公司
Some kind of fitness empire. 电视导购节目上还卖她的健身录像
You can buy her exercise tapes on infomercials. 你说的人是Brooke Taylor?
Are you talking about Brooke Taylor? 娘姓是Taylor 你认识她?
Maiden name--Taylor.You know her? 她是Delta Nu社团的 但她和我不是同期入会
She's a Delta Nu! She wasn't in my pledge class. 她比我早四年毕业
She graduated four years before me. 我以前上过她在洛杉矶运动俱乐部的班
But I used to take her class at the Los Angeles Sports Club. 她很厉害
She's amazing! 怎么个厉害法?
Amazing? How? 她可以帮你一节课减掉三磅
She can make you lose three pounds in one class. 她绝对是个天才
She's completely gifted. 很可能她也绝对是个杀人犯
In all likelihood,she's completely guilty as well. 我觉得Brooke不会杀人
I just don't think Brooke could have done this. 运动能产生内啡肽
Exercise gives you endorphins. 内啡肽能使人心情快乐
Endorphins make you happy. 快乐的人是不会杀自己丈夫的
Happy people don't shoot their husbands. 绝对不会
They just don't. 好了 对不起
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: There you go.Sorry. 大家知道在书里我谈过幸福革命
You know in the book I talk about the happiness revolution. 根据很多研究
And I think based on a lot of research 幸福革命的基础
that the foundation for a happiness revolution 一定伴随着运动革命而来
has to come with an exercise revolution. 为什么?因为如果我们不运动 就是违抗自然
Why? Because if we don't exercise,we are fighting against nature 所以幸福革命的基础
So the foundation,the basis for the happiness revolution 必须始于脖子以下的身体
has to start neck down through the body. 我们接着讲第二个身心疗法
Let me move on to a second mind body intervention 就是冥想
and that is meditation. 冥想是什么?我练瑜伽时第一次接触冥想
So what is meditation? I was first introduced to it through Yoga. 我当时打壁球弄伤了背
I got injured,playing squash,my back. 有人说练瑜伽有效果 我就开始练了
They told me Yoga would help.I started Yoga. 瑜伽不但治好了我的背 还有很多益处
It helped my back and I got so much more out of it. 太多益处了
In fact,so much more out of it that 所以我现在跟Debbie Cohen学当瑜伽老师
I'm doing my teacher training now with Debbie Cohen, 将来会当上一名瑜伽老师
and will become a Yoga instructor, 如果她让我通过 应该很快就能当了
hopefully very soon if she passes me. 还有其他形式的意念冥想 静坐冥想
There are other forms of mindful meditation- sitting meditation; 太极 气功
there is Tai Chi,Qi Gong; 还有把注意力放在呼吸上的冥想
there is meditation that just focuses on the breath; 有把注意力放在同情心上的冥想
there is meditation that focuses compassion. 这些冥想都有一个共同点
There are a few common elements to most types of meditation. 我们来提其中几个
Let me mention a few of them. 首先 它们都专注于一件事物上
First of all,it's focusing on one thing, 可以是动作 姿势
whether it's the movement,whether it's the posture, 呼吸
whether it's the breath, 同情心 爱 善心
whether it's compassion and loving and kindness, 可以是火焰
whether it's a flame. 可以是…但它都专注于…
Whatever it is,but it's focusing... 可以是祈祷 反正就是一件事物上
Whether it's a prayer.It's focusing on one thing. 通常大部分的冥想
Usually most forms of meditation- 基础都是深呼吸
the foundation is deep breathing. 就像婴儿呼吸一样
In a sense the way a baby breathes. 用腹部呼吸 把气一直吸进腹部
Belly breathing- breathe all the way to your belly 然后慢慢地轻轻地呼出来
and then slowly,gently,gracefully breathing out. 深呼吸是很多冥想的基础
Deep breathing is usually the foundation- 不管是太极 瑜伽 还是静坐冥想
whether it's Tai Chi,Yoga,or sitting meditation. 最后 冥想没有好坏之分
And finally,there is no good or bad meditation. 从某个方面讲 冥想没有目的
Meditation in a sense doesn't have a purpose 在你冥想时 没有目的
when you are meditating. 你不能强求自己
You are giving yourself the permission to be human. 不会说"我刚刚做了一次很棒的冥想"
There is no "ah I just had an amazing meditation," 或者"我觉悟了"
or "I just feel enlightened." 其实 我来给大家讲一个故事
In fact,let me tell you a story about 关于我是如何通过冥想觉悟的
how I became enlightened through meditation. 去年 我以前经常出行
So last year,I used to travel quite a bit. 我们那时住在以色列
We lived in Israel, 我平均每个月来美国几天
but I travelled once a month on average to the US for a few days. 当我来到这里时
And when I travelled here, 我通常都是演讲 还会借机静修
I used to give talks but also used that time as a form of retreat 我会做很多瑜伽
And what I would do was I practiced a lot of Yoga, 比我在以色列做得要多
much more than I did in Israel. 我做很多冥想 两场演讲之间有很多闲余时间
I did a lot of meditation.I had a lot of time between talks. 我经常利用这些时间静修
So plenty of time I used it as a retreat. 我记得有一次回到以色列
And I remember one time coming home back to Israel and- 我给大家讲一下当时的情景
I just give you the context. 在以色列 我们住在特拉维夫外的一个城市
In Israel,we live in a city just outside Tel Aviv, 叫Ramat Gan
called Ramat Gan. 我们的房子在一栋20层的建筑里
And we live- our house is in a 20-story building- 我们住在10楼
we live on the 10th floor. 景色美不胜收
And the view is just breath-taking. 以色列是一个很小的国家
You know Israel is just a very tiny country,so you can see... 我可以看到以色列的两边 一边是地中海
I can see both sides of Israel- the Mediterranean on one side; 另一边能看到萨米尔山区
I can see the Mountains of Samir on the other side. 非常美丽的景色
Just gorgeous view. 我喜欢每天早上…
And one of the things that I like to do is every morning- 因为我是一个早起的人
because I'm a morning person- 通常比家人起得都要早
I wake up usually before the rest of the family. 我在客厅坐下
I sit down in the dining room 透过玻璃窗看外面
and look outside through the glass window. 我们有一个玻璃窗
We have a glass window. 因为楼层很高
Since it's so high, 我们用的是强化玻璃 有些窗是开不了的
it's fortified glass of course and part of it does not open. 我透过那扇没打开的窗看外面
But I look through the part that does not open outside. 我经常这样看
And I do it very often. 我记得有一次从美国回来后
And I remember coming back from this particular trip and, 我看窗外 突然
from the US,and looking outside and suddenly, 所有颜色都变得鲜艳多了
all the colors seem so much brighter. 整个世界似乎都变得更明亮了
The world seems so much clear. 我心里想"我肯定觉悟了"
And I say to myself,"wow.I must've become enlightened." 因为我在书上看过有人说
Because I read in books and I heard people talking about it 当你觉悟时 一切事物都变得明亮
that when you become enlightened,everything becomes clear. 世界变得比原来更美了
The world becomes even more beautiful than it already is. 我坐在沙发上
And I were sitting there on the sofa, 欣赏着鲜艳的颜色
and just admiring the strong colors, 美景 明亮的世界
the beauty,the clarity of every thing. 我心想"经过这么多年"
And I said to myself,"after so many years"- 我冥想了十年了
I've been meditating for over ten years, "经过这么多年 我终于觉悟了"
"after so many years,I'm finally enlightened." 我的行为举止开始变了
And I started to act differently, 因为觉悟了的人
because you know enlightened people 不会到处告诉别人他们觉悟了
don't go around telling people they are enlightened. 这节课是一个例外
Well,this is an exception. 但…我没有告诉别人
But...So I didn't tell anyone. 我甚至没有告诉Tammy我觉悟了
I didn't even tell Tammy that I'm enlightened. 第二天早上 我步履轻盈了
But I was walking on air and the next day,the next morning, 我醒来又开始我每天例行的看景
I would wake up and again my ritual observation on off 看着远处的山 我想
the mountains in a distance and I said, "世界太美丽了 我觉悟了"
"wow.The world is so beautiful.I'm enlightened." 这种情况持续了几天
And that went on for a few days. 有一天 Tammy和我坐在休息室里
Then one day,Tammy and I were sitting together in the lounge, 我们在聊天
and just chatting. 她看着窗外 我也看窗外
And you know she was looking outside and I was looking outside. 她说"你去了美国的这段时间
And she said,"you know finally when you went away, 我终于能把窗户擦干净了"
after so long,I finally was able to clean the window."[Laugh] 我说"什么?"
I said,I said,"what?" 她说"我一直都够不着窗外
And she said,"you know I haven't been able to get out there. 但我买了一个机器
But I got this machine. 一个有两边的机器 有一块磁铁的
You know the two side machine with a,with a magnet. 我终于买到这个机器 把窗擦干净了"
I was finally able to get it.And I finally cleaned the window." 我的觉悟原来是一场空欢喜
So much for my enlightenment. 也许真的有觉悟这回事 我也不知道
So you know,maybe there is enlightenment- I don't know. 但冥想的关键并不是达到这种境界
But the key with meditation is not about reaching that stage, 看到一切都变明亮了
when everything suddenly becomes so clear. 要想这样 把窗户擦干净可能更快
You know I think the quicker path would be to clean the window. 但觉悟不是冥想的目的
But that's not what meditation is about. 冥想是专注于现状 此时此刻
Meditation is about being present,being in the here and now, 与此时此刻的存在作挣扎
struggling with being in the here and now. 当我们思想涣散了
And when we lose our thought, 当我们对呼吸分心了 集中回来就行了
when we lose our focus on the breath,simply bring it back. 这就是冥想 分心 集中
That is the practice- losing it and bringing it back. 分心 集中
Losing it and bringing it back. 这样我们就能把思想锻炼得更专注
And that's how we exercise our mind to be more focused, 更留神
to be more mindful. 我给大家讲几个对冥想的研究
So let me share with you some of the studies on meditation. 对了 一旦你开始做冥想或瑜伽
And once you start meditation or Yoga by the way, 你会摸索出适合自己的方式
you will find what is right for you. 我有多动症 很难静下来坐着冥想
Being ADHD,it was very difficult for me to do sitting meditation 做瑜伽对我更有用
Much more conducive for me to do Yoga. 因为我练瑜伽时很认真
Because I'm working hard. 瑜伽能把我的注意力集中在姿势上
It keeps my mind focused on the posture. 对其他人来说 静坐冥想更适合
For other people,the right thing is sitting meditation. 静坐呼吸
Just breathing. 有些人会想着某一件事物
For others,it's thinking about certain things. 很多人会祈祷
For many people,it's praying. 只要适合你就行了
Whatever works for you. 你甚至可以同时做几件事
And it can be of course a few things. 你可以一边祈祷一边做瑜伽
You can pray and do Yoga. 我来给大家讲几个研究
So let me share with you some of the studies. 关于冥想的严肃研究
The real serious studies on meditation 一开始是研究冥想界中的佼佼者
started by looking at the tip of the stem. 那些练习冥想很多年的冥想者
The meditators,people who have been doing it for many years, 练习了很久的人
for a very long time. 这些研究者包括Richie Davidson
And what they asked,the researchers like Richie Davidson, 任职于威斯康星大学
University of Wisconsin, 伍斯特大学的Jon Kabat-Zinn
Jon Kabat-Zinn from University of Worcester, 像Herbert Benson这样的人
people like Herbert Benson, 加州大学的Paul Ackerman 还有其他人
Paul Ackerman from one the UCs,and other people. 他们想研究冥想时
When they wanted to study meditation, 他们说"我们来研究最好的冥想者"
they said "let's study the best." 所以他们联系了达赖喇嘛 说
So they contacted the Dalai Lama himself and said, "你能推荐一些冥想了
"can you suggest some people who have been meditating 很久的认真的冥想者吗
for a very long time- serious meditators; 我们想研究他们的大脑"
and we want to study their brain." 他们找到了 把这些人找来
So they did.And they brought them in. 他们研究的第一样东西是 大家应该记得
And what they looked for,the first thing,remember, 左前额皮层和右前额皮层的比例
left to right prefrontal cortex ratio. 大家记得 我们之前谈过
And if you remember,we talked about it- 快乐的人通常更活跃的地方
people who are happier generally have more activation 是左前额皮层
on the left side of the prefrontal cortex; 不快乐的人更活跃的地方
people who are less happy have more activation 是右前额皮层
on the right side of the prefrontal cortex. 所以这个比例很重要
So that ratio is important. 它是测量快乐的一个"客观"手段
And it's one of the "objective" means of measuring happiness. 他们得出的一个发现是
One of the things that they have found is that 两者之间存在很大关联
there is very high correlation 在扫描器下看到的大脑
between what our brains look like under the scanner 和我们对自己是否快乐的自我报告
and our self-report about how happy we are- 当然不是100%的关联 但也不低 很高
not 100 percent correlation,not at 1,but pretty high, 这表明自我报告是很可靠的
suggesting the self-reports are pretty,are quite reliable. 总之 他们想研究这些冥想者的大脑
But anyway,so they wanted to look at the brain of the meditators 他们再比较普通大众
And when they looked at the general public, 我们都在一个钟形曲线内
we all exist on a Bell curve. 快乐的人更靠前
The happier people are further on 左侧皮层更活跃
more activation on the left side; 不快乐的人更靠后
the less happy people are further- 右侧皮层更活跃
more activation,higher ratio on the right side. 然后他们找来这些冥想者
And then they brought in the meditators. 测出他们左前额皮层和左前额皮层的比例
And they measured their left to right prefrontal cortex. 这是他们的研究发现
And here is what they found. 这是正常的钟形曲线
This is the normal Bell curve. 冥想者在这里
This is where the meditators were. 这是2001年的研究 他们找了很多冥想者
This is from 2001- since,they have found numerous meditators 他们几乎偏离了这个图
that are quite literally off the chart, 表明快乐的程度很高
suggesting very high levels of well being and happiness. 他们很容易感染积极情绪
Being susceptible to positive emotions, 对痛苦情绪的抵抗力很强
and resilient in the face of painful emotions. 这是一个很惊人的结果
So this is a remarkable result. 这些结果之前没人发现过
Again,results that are not seen before 直到他们研究了这些冥想者
until they measured these meditators. 另一个研究方面就是
The other things that 他们想看看另一个重要的指标
they were interested is looking at other important indicator 衡量健康和冷静的惊吓反应
for well being and calmness is the startle response. 当你听到一声巨响 你会吓一跳
When you hear a bang,you startle. 这个惊吓反应很重要
And the startle response is important, 因为你越容易受到惊吓
because the easier you get startled, 通常说明你焦虑程度更高
generally it's correlated to the higher levels of anxiety, 至少容易产生焦虑
susceptibility at least to anxiety. 大家都有一定的惊吓反应
And everyone has this startle response to some degree. 即使是军队里的神枪手
Even marksmen and women in the military, 他们每天都射枪
you know,who shoot their guns everyday 他们要完全集中注意力
and they are trying to remain completely focus. 当枪走火时 他们也会受到惊吓
Even they startle,when the gun goes off. 他们会微微地抖一下 这也是惊吓反应
They flinch.Very slightly,but they do. 要压抑惊吓反应是不可能的
So it's impossible to suppress the startle response. 或者说当时的人是这样想的
Or so they thought. Paul Ackerman找来这些冥想者
When Paul Ackerman brought these meditators in 叫他们保持绝对镇定和冷静
and asked them to maintain complete equanimity and calmness, 他吓他们
and he startled them. 他们一点反应都没有 有记录以来第一次
There was no reaction whatsoever.First time in recorded history. 有人能够抑压自己的惊吓反应
That people are,have been able to suppress the startle response. Goleman writes在他的书中这样写道
Here was what Daniel Goleman writes about this in his book, 破坏性情绪 "一个人惊吓反应越大
Destructive Emotions: "Given that the larger someone's startle, 那个人就越可能
the more intensely that 出现消极情绪
person tends to experience upsetting emotions, Oser的表现有着有趣的含意
Oser's performance had tantalizing implications, 表明他的情绪有着惊人的镇定"
suggesting a remarkable level of emotional equanimity." 这种镇定还会传染
That equanimity was also contagious- 如果有人想和这些喇嘛争吵
so people who tried to argue with these monks, 他们会很难生起气来
very often had a hard time becoming angry or upset 即使这个话题很容易让他们生气
even if the topic was upset,personally upsetting to them, 例如科学家争论上帝是否存在
such as scientists arguing about the existence of God. 他们说"我生不起气来"
And they said,"I couldn't get upset." 因为平静是会传染的 就是快乐会传染一样
Because calm is contagious,just like happiness is. 有些同学可能不百分百了解
Now some of you may not be 100 percent clear about 什么是惊吓反应
what the startle response is. 对于不了解惊吓反应的同学 我准备了一个短片
So for those of you who are not,I've prepared a very brief clip. (惊吓反应视频)
[VIDEO: Clip on Startle Response] 面具吓不了他
Oh sure the mask doesn't do anything to him. 你想知道什么吓到他了吗?
But you wanna see something really scary? 是爸爸
It's Dad![Laugh] 好了 现在大家明白了
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: OK.All right.Now you understand. 他们研究这些冥想者时
When they studied these meditators, 基本上他们方法就是应用
essentially what they were doing was applying 我们之前讲过的
what we've talked about, 生长锥数据 或者Maslow讲过的
the growing tip statistic or Maslow talks about, 生长锥数据 研究最好的
the growing tip statistic- studying the best. 因为如果你想推动知识发展
Because if you want to advance knowledge, 如果你想更好地应用可行理论
if you want to better apply ideas that work, 你不会研究普通老师 你会研究Marva Colins
you don't study the average teacher,you study Marva Colins. 你不会研究普通的冥想者
You don't study the average meditator, 自以为觉悟了的冥想者 你研究那些
who thinks he's enlightened,you study the meditators 冥想了很多年的冥想者
who have been doing it for for many years. 其中一个冥想者Oser喇嘛说
Lama Oser,one of these meditators: "冥想本身有一些与众不同的特质
"The process itself has some extraordinary qualities, 但这与进行冥想的人无关
but not necessarily the subject. 重要的一点是 冥想并非触不可及的
The important idea is that this process is within the reach of 只要你有足够的决心来练习它"
anyone who applies himself or herself with enough determination." 也就是说 冥想并不专属于少数几个人
In other words,this is not just for the selected few, 那些每天8小时地冥想了30年的人
who can meditate for 30 years,8 hours a day. 大家都可以冥想
It can be applied 因为这个过程对所有人来说都很简单
because the process is relatively simple to all of us. Daniel Goleman说"从神经科学的角度看
Daniel Goleman: "From the perspective of neuroscience, 这个研究的重点
the point of all this research 并不是为了说明
has nothing to do with demonstrating that Oser或者其他厉害的冥想者
Oser or any other extraordinary person 本身有什么过人之处
may be remarkable in him-or herself,but 而是为了扩展这个领域对于人体潜力的假设
rather to stretch the field's assumptions about human possibility 其中一些关键假设已经开始扩展了
Some of these key assumptions have already begun to expand, 部分原因是神经科学
in part due to a revolution in neuroscience's supposition 对大脑可塑性作出革命性猜想"
about the malleability of the brain itself." 大家记住 神经塑性 神经形成
Remember neuroplasticity.Neurogenesis. 这些概念 我和
These concepts that I and... 像Richie Davidson这样的科学家认为
how scientists like Richie Davidson identified 大脑是可塑的 可以改变的
that our brain is malleable,it can change. 改变的方法之一就是冥想
And one of the ways to change it is through meditation. 这种观点非常好
Now this is all well and good. 所以我们可以下决心把它应用于生活中
So we can apply this process with determination to our lives. 但这课室里有多少人会认真地说
But how many people here seriously would say, "听起来很好
"OK.That sounds great. 我想我的左前额皮层更活跃
I want my left side of the prefrontal cortex to be more active. 所以我要去喜马拉雅山
So I'm gonna go off to Himalayas 每天8小时地冥想30年"
and meditate for 30 years,8 hours a day. 有多少人真的准备这么做?
I mean,how many people are really prepared to do this? 有多少人每天有两小时做冥想?
How many people have time for 2 hours a day of meditation? 这个研究的第二个问题是 两者之间只是关联
The second problem with this research is that it's correlational. 但并没有因果关系
There's no causation here. 也许Oser喇嘛天生就是这样
Maybe Lama Oser was born that way; 所以他才对冥想产生兴趣
that's why he was attracted to meditation. 也许Matthieu Ricard…他写了一本关于幸福的书
Maybe Matthieu Ricard- he's written a book on happiness- 他是达赖喇嘛的翻译 一个右撇子
Dalai Lama's translator,right-hand man. 也许他天生就是这样
Maybe he was born that way 左前额皮层比右前额皮层活跃得多
with a remarkable left to right prefrontal cortex. 对了 他的比例完全超出钟形曲线
He's,by the way,literally off the charts. 除了因果关系 还有一个主要问题 时间
But the main problem still remains- beyond causation is the time. 我们有时间吗
Do we have the time, 我们有耐心经常长时间冥想吗?
do we have the patience to meditate so often and so much? 我发现当我开始冥想
You know when I found out,when I started to meditate, 开始做瑜伽时 我真的能看到益处
to do Yoga,I really saw the benefits of it. 我说"我每天做半小时
And I said,"OK.So I'm getting the benefits 就能收到成效了
when I am doing it for half an hour a day. 如果我进行一次长时间静修呢?"
What if I do a real,longer retreat?" 所以我想进行十天的静修
And I have some great 10 day long retreats. 我跟Tammy
And I said to Tammy, "我想去静修十天"
"you know,I want to go to a 10 day retreat." Tammy很了解我
And Tammy knows me pretty well, 她说"不如你试试…
and she said,"you know,why don't you try... 你不用要么不做 要么就做到足
You know it's not all or nothing. 不如你试试先静修一天
Why don't you try a one day retreat first 然后再进行为期十天的静修?"
before you go on a 10 day retreat?" 我说"这是个好主意"
And I said,"you know,it's a good idea!" 我开始为期一天的静修
And I went to a one day retreat, 离这里不远 就在剑桥
which is not very far from here,in Cambridge. 我踏上这段静修之行 非常激动
And I went to this retreat and I was very excited. 那天是星期六 我盼了一整周
It was on a Saturday.And I was looking for it all week. 我当时想"通过这一天的静修
I said,"I'm starting the process of enlightenment, 我就踏上觉悟之路了
of course,through this one day retreat. 等我做完这一天的静修
And once after that one day retreat, 等我向Tammy证明这对我有很大益处时
once I prove to Tammy that it's good for me, 她就会看到我静修后有多平静
she'll see how calm I am after. 她就会说'好的 去静修十天吧'"
She'll say,'sure.Go for the 10 day retreat." 所以我去了静修一天
So I went for that one day retreat. 那一天的静修 我们进去看到一个男人
And the one day retreat- we came in; there was a gentleman 长着胡子 坐在一班学生前
who was sitting in front of the class with the beard, 显得非常平静
looking very calm. 我想"静修完今天 我就能像他那样了
And I said,"I'm going to look like him at the end of the day. 除了没他的胡子" 我们坐下
And...Minus the beard." And we sat down. 他说"我们先从静坐冥想开始"
He said,"we are going to start with sitting meditation." 我们都坐下
So we all sat. 我们都有坐垫 我需要几个坐垫
You know we had our cushion.I need a few cushions there. 我们坐在那里 我把手放在这里
We were sitting there.I put my hands here. 他说"好了 深呼吸 从鼻孔吸进去
He said,"OK.Breathe deeply.Through your nostrils. 然后呼出来"
And then breathe out again." 我们跟着做 我坐在那里
And we did that.And I was sitting there. 我有多运症 我的思想开始涣散
And my mind- you know being ADHD- started to wander. 他说"如果思想涣散了 集中回来"
But he said,"if the mind wanders,bring it back to the focus." 我们坐了…
And we were sitting there and for- 我觉得很长时间
what it seems like- a very long time. 我坚持住 我想"你思想涣散了 没关系
And I stayed there.And I said,"OK.Your mind wanders.It's OK. 集中回来" 我继续坐在那里
Come back to it." And I continued to sit there. 我们坐了45分钟 最后他说
And we sat there for 45 minutes.And at the end,he said, "慢慢地轻轻地睁开眼睛 站起来"
"OK.Gently,slowly open your eyes.And stand up." 他说"接下来
And he said,"what we are gonna do now, 经过45分钟后 我们开始第二部分
the second part after the 45 minutes, 第一部分是静坐冥想
first part,the sitting meditation- 接下来我们要行走冥想"
we are going to do some walking meditation." 他解释了一下
And he illustrated it. 然后我们围成一个圈 跟着他走
And then we walked behind him,around in a circle. 我们走得很慢 很认真
And we walked very slowly,very diligently. 把注意力集中到每一步上 把腿抬起
Just focusing on each step.Lifting up the leg. 他说"集中到动作上
He said,"just focus on the movement. 专注于此时此刻 如果你思想涣散了"
Be present in the here and now.And if your mind wanders," 我经常这样 "再集中回行走上
which mine did constantly,"bring it back to the walking. 继续深呼吸
And continue to breathe deeply. 就像刚才静坐冥想一样"
Just like what you did in the sitting meditation." 所以我们绕着房间 走了很久
So we were walking around the room for a very long time. 继续走 绕着房间走
And we walked.And we continued to walk around that room. 我的思想继续涣散 我感到无聊了
And my mind continued to wander.And I got bored. 我开始四处看别人
So what I did was I started to look around at the other people. 他们都绕着圈子走着
And they were all walking in the circle. 然后我看了老师坐的地方
And then I looked to where the teacher was sitting. 老师旁边有一张纸
And next to the teacher,there was a piece of paper. 我想"真有趣 不知道上面写了什么呢"
I thought,"oh interesting.I wonder what it says there." 所以我继续走 又走到那张纸那里
So I continued to walk and I got to the piece of paper again. 我想"是时间安排表 真有趣"
And I said,"oh it's a schedule.How interesting!" 我不够时间看清上面写什么
And I didn't have enough time to read what it said. 我想"下一圈我就有盼头了"
So I said,"next round I have something to look forward to!" 所以我继续走 我看到…
So I continued to walk.And I see... 我看到我们刚上完的课 45分钟静坐冥想
Oh I see this is what we did- 45 minutes of sitting meditation 后面就是45分钟的行走冥想
and after that 45 minutes of walking meditation.Ha? 接下来是什么呢?我继续走
I wonder what's next.And I continued to walk. 我有盼头了 所以很高兴
And now I have something to look forward to.I was excited. 我往下看 45分钟静坐冥想?
And I look just below- 45 minutes of sitting meditation? 然后 45分钟行走冥想?
And then- 45 minutes of walking meditation? 又是静坐和行走
Wow! And another sitting and walking... 然后是午餐 午餐后面是什么呢?
Oh and lunch! I wonder what we do after lunch! 45分钟静坐冥想?然后是行走…天啊
45 minutes of sitting meditation? And walking...Wow. 然后是行走冥想?于是我心里想
And after that,walking meditation? So I thought to myself, "太恐怖了 再见 天啊"
"wow.This is incredible! I'll see you next time! Jeez!" 我走出去了 我受不了了 所以…
And I walked out.I just...I couldn't take it! So... 我跑回家了 说实话我感到很尴尬
And I ran home,but I must say,I was a little bit embarrassed. 所以我想"不如我在外面逛一天"
So I said,"wait.Maybe I'll spend the day outside." 回家时装出一副觉悟的样子
You know,just come back home and seem enlightened at least. 但我没有这样做 我打给Tammy
But I didn't.So I called Tammy. 我告诉她"你想和我一起吃早餐吗?"
And I told her,"do you want to have breakfast together?" 我们一起吃了 她明白这是人之常情
And we did.She gives me the permission to be human. 我觉得自己无法静修十天
I don't see myself going on a 10 day retreat. 我觉得自己无法静修30年
I don't see myself going on a 30 year retreat. 我的问题是 在这种情况下
And my question was that as it is now, 那些不想 或者无法长时间冥想的人
how can meditation help people who don't want to 冥想怎么帮得了他们?
or simply can't meditate for such a long time? 别误会我的意思
And don't get me wrong. 我推荐大家进行静修
I do recommend these retreats. 有些人去了静修以后
There are people who go to these retreats 变得不同了
and come out looking differently. 我见过 我有很多朋友去过
I mean I've seen...I know.Many of my friends have been there. 再说回来 静修一天还是十天…
But that's- again,a one day retreat or a 10 day retreat; 有些人静修了长达三个月
some people have gone as long to as 3 months retreat 他们都取得很好成果
and they are good. 但我坚持不来
Just not for me. 我们该怎么做呢?Jon Kabat-Zinn在他的研究中
So what can we do? Jon Kabat-Zinn in his research, 告诉了我们冥想如何应用于
showed how meditation can apply to people 那些没有一整天闲余时间 每天只能抽45分钟的人
who don't want to do full days,who just have 45 minutes a day 甚至如何每天抽15分钟冥想或者做瑜伽
or as little as 15 minutes a day for meditation or Yoga, 或者其他形式的意念练习
or some form of mindfulness. 他做了两件事
And he did two things. 第一件
First of all, 他表明了冥想不到30年的人从中得到什么益处
he showed how it helps for people who do less than 30 years. 第二件同样重要 他表明了因果关系的存在
And second,equally important,he showed causation. 他的一个研究中有两组人
So he took two groups in one of his studies. 两组
Two groups. 两组都想做冥想
The one group- both groups wanted to do meditation, 他们都有这个兴趣
so they expressed the interest- 他让其中一组等候
one group he put on a waiting list. 他说
And he said, 你们将在三个月后参加这个冥想班
you are participating this seminar in about three months. 是四个月 四个月后
Or...It was 4 months.In 4 months, 你们将参加这个报满了的冥想班
you'll be participating the seminar where all booked out. 第二组开始这个班的冥想练习
The second group started the meditation regime workshop then. 他们的练习就是每天冥想45分钟
And the regime was essentially 45 minutes of meditation a day. 周末时他们会聚到一起
During the weekend,they were together; 学习一些技巧
they learned some techniques. 但在工作日时 他们在家里
But during the week,when they were at home, 每天冥想45分钟
45 minutes a day of meditation. 然后他拿他们跟参考组对比
And then he compared them to the control group- 参考组就是那个等待参加冥想班的组
the group that was waiting for a retreat,waiting for the lessons 因为他希望实验对象都是
Because he wanted them to be the same kind- 想做冥想的人
people who wanted to do meditation. 一组已经开始冥想 另一组迟点再开始
One that has actually started; one that is going to start soon. 然后他测量焦虑程度 对比参考组
And then he measured anxiety and compared to the control group- 那个冥想了八周的人的焦虑程度
anxiety levels of those who did meditation for 8 weeks. 平均每天45分钟 只做了八周
Just 8 weeks.45 minutes a day on average. 焦虑程度大大降低
Anxiety decreased significantly. 然后他研究他们的快乐程度
Then he looked at their happiness level, 积极的情绪 他不只关注消极程绪
like the positive- not just the negative to the zero; 从消极到积极的都关注
the zero to the positive. 他们更快乐了 心情更好了
And they were happier.They had better moods. 仅仅八周 但关键还在后头
After as little as 8 weeks.But here are the clinchers. 他说
He then said, "这还不够 自我报告有可能产生安慰剂效应"
"well,it's not enough- just self-reported could be placebo,"- 这个想法很好
which is great, 他要不受安慰剂效应影响的证据
but he wanted to see something else beyond just placebo. 然后他有了这个发现
And here is what he found. 他研究他们的左右前额皮层比例
He looked at their left to right prefrontal cortex. 仅仅八周之后
And after as little as 8 weeks, 那些冥想的人
there was a significant difference 就出现显著的变化
in those individuals who meditated. 这是一个很惊人的结果
Now this is a remarkable result. 大家记住 1998年之前
Remember until 1998, 科学家都深信大脑是不可塑的
scientists were sure that the brain is not malleable; 过了三岁以后就不会改变
does not change pass the age of 3 or so. 突然仅仅八周的练习
And suddenly here with this little,with as little as 8 weeks, 这些冥想的人
these meditators,or individuals, 每天有规律地冥想45分钟的人
you know regular people doing 45 minutes of meditation a day, 改变了他们大脑的机能
are changing the way their brain functions, 使得他们更容易感染积极情绪
making them more susceptible to positive emotions, 对痛苦情绪的抵抗力更强
more resilient in the face of painful emotions. 我们哈佛医学院的Herbert Benson
Herbert Benson from our medical school here 发现每天做15到20分钟的冥想
are showing with as little as 15-20 minutes a day of meditation, 做了一段时间后 就能大大地改善健康
you see a significant change over time in levels of well being. 情绪健康和身体健康都改善了
Emotional well being as well as physical well being. 因为Jon Kabat-Zinn做了另一个研究
Because the other study that Jon Kabat-Zinn did 他给两组人都注射了…
with these meditators was injecting both groups- 那组等候冥想的参考组和进行冥想的那组
the control group who are waiting and the meditators. 他给他们注射了感冒细菌
He injected them with cold bacteria. 他想测的是
And what he wanted to do,what he wanted to measure was 他们体内的抗体会有什么反应
how would their bodies react in terms of antibodies. 他发现冥想者的免疫反应
And what he found was that the meditators' immune response 比那些没有冥想的人强了很多
was significantly stronger than those who didn't meditate, 那些在等候冥想的人
who were waiting to meditate. 只需八周的冥想 每天45分钟
Just based on 8 weeks of meditation,45 minutes a day. 我们知道
And we know that. 你们知道当我们更平静时
You know when we are calmer, 我们对疾病的抵抗力就会增强
we are less susceptible to illnesses. 我们焦虑时 就更容易患上疾病
When we are stressed,we are more susceptible to illnesses. 所以冥想能加强
So meditation strengthens both- 心理免疫系统 增强心理抵抗力
the psychological immune system in making us more resilient, 同时还能改善身体免疫系统
as well as the physical immune system. 意志训练应用于很多领域
Mindfulness has been used in numerous areas, 成为很多领域中的一种治疗方法
numerous places as therapy. 今天就更是如此了
More and more so today. 配合认知疗法
Both as in,together with cognitive therapy, 配合药物 冥想 或者单纯冥想
together with medicine,medication as well as on its own. 研究已经表明这种方法非常有效
And it's been shown to be extremely effective. 我推荐一本书
The book I recommend, 如果你想对这个领域有一个深刻的初步认识
if you want to get a good outline of what the field has to say 我推荐大家看《改善情绪的正念疗法》
is called The Mindful Way Through Depression. 这本书是讲
It talks about 意念如何能帮我们克服严重抑郁
how mindfulness can help us overcome major depression, 中度抑郁 或者焦虑
mild depression as well as things like anxiety 还能改善其他心理疾病
and how it can also help other psychological disorders. 例如这本书中讲到的一件事
And one of the things for example that they show there- 我们知道
we know from, 很不幸 一旦一个人患了严重抑郁
unfortunately we know that once someone has major depression, 复发的可能
the likelihood of it reappearing, 不管是一周后 还是一年后
whether it's a month later or sometimes years later 比从来没患过严重抑郁的人要高很多
is much higher than if we never have major depression. 为什么?回忆一下我们之前讲过的内容
Why? Think about what we have discussed before. 我们讲过大脑是如何形成神经通路的
What we talked about is how the brain creates neural pathways. 一旦神经通路形成
Now if a neural pathway has been created- 因为抑郁症的神经通路很强烈
and it's a strong neural pathway of depression, 通常一点相对不严重的事发生了
very often something which is relatively mild 都能让这条神经通路活跃过来
but happens can send us back to that neural pathway. 如果我们有一段时间情绪不好 哪怕是一点小事
So we through a relatively hard period,nothing that serious,but 马上大脑就会寻找最大的那条神经通路
immediately the brain looks for that the largest neural pathway, 形象一点说 最大的那条河流
the largest river metaphorically speaking. 它就会找到那条通路
And it goes there. 所以因为一点很小的原因 严重抑郁症复发了
And we have the major depression again with little reason. 复发了两三次后
And after we have it two or three times, 这条神经通道更强烈了 复发可能性更高了
the neural pathway is even stronger,even more likely to recur. 他发现 当他们进行正念冥想
What he found when they introduced mindfulness meditation or 或者正念疗法 再配以认知行为疗法
mindfulness therapy in addition to cognitive behavioral therapy 就能减少严重抑郁症复发的可能
was it reduced the likelihood of recurrence of major depression 那些患有 或曾经患过严重抑郁症的人
among people who have major depression or had major depression- 能减少50%的复发可能
reduces the likelihood by over 50 percent of relapse. 这是一个纵向研究 这种方法真的很有用
That is a longitudinal study.So that really helps. 还能改善中度以下的的抑郁症
It also helps deal with non major depression. 帮助处理悲伤情绪
It helps dealing with sadness. 这种方法是怎么起作用的?
Now how does it work? How does it work? 我简单地…再说一次 我很推荐这本书
Let me very briefly- again I do recommend this book; 光用这本书就可以开一门课程
we can have a whole course on this book. 这本书还介绍了一个很棒的八周疗法
This book also got an 8 week program which is fantastic. 第一步是察觉
Its first level is about awareness 并接受身体信号
and acceptance of the body signal. 这是什么意思?
What do they mean here? 当我们感受到一种情绪时
You see,whenever we enter experiencing emotion, 通常会伴有一个身体反应
there is always a physical manifestation to it. 例如像快乐这样的积极情绪 可能会忐忑
Positive emotions such as happiness- it could be butterflies or 可能只是会感到上半身豁然开朗
you know just feeling very broad in the upper body whatever it is 痛苦情绪也有身体反应
but also painful emotions. 例如
For example, 我个人来说 当我感到焦虑时 这里
if I experience,personal when I experience anxiety,it's here. 我能感受到它在这里
I feel it here. 或者这里 我以前讲过 就像胃打了个结一样
Or here.The knot in my stomach that I talked about. 感受到抑郁甚至悲伤的人
People who experience depression or even sadness, 会感觉到它在某一身体部位 可能在胃
feel it somewhere- again whether it's in the stomach, 可能在肩膀
whether it's in the shoulders, 一个情绪
there is always a physical manifestation 总是伴有身体反应的
to an emotional experience. 研究者认为 以及研究发现表明
And what they are saying and what the research has shown 当我们开始感受到痛苦情绪时
is that when we begin to experience a painful emotion, 我们马上就要开始运用意念
immediately going and becoming mindful, 开始找出这个身体反应在哪里
aware of where the physical manifestation is. 而不要钻角头尖
So instead of beginning to ruminate "为什么我会抑郁""怎么回事"
and to dwell on "why am I depressed","what's going on", "发生什么事了""又犯了""千万别又犯了"
"what's happening","not again","I hope this won't start..." 我们不要马上想到这些
Instead of going in to this rumination, 而是马上找出这个情绪的身体反应
going immediately to the physical manifestation of it, 想到身体
to the body. 我开始感到有压力 好的
So I'm beginning to feel stressed.OK. 把注意力集中到这里 接受这个结
And focusing on it and accepting that knot. 不要尝试去消除它 这点我们稍后会谈
Not trying to fix it as we'll talk about in a minute. 只需接受它的存在 看着它想
Simply accepting it for what it is,looking at it and saying, "真有趣 很大的一个结"
"oh.That's interesting.Oh it's quite a big knot. "不 很小 在变大了"
Oh no it's small.Oh it's getting actually bigger." 而不要想
As opposed to saying "我想它消失 它消失了 真有趣"
"I want it to go away.Oh it is going away.That's interesting." 这不是这一步的目的
But that's not the purpose. 这一步的目的只需察觉到它的存在
The purpose is simply to become aware of it, 只需察觉到
simply to become aware of 这种情绪引起的身体反应
whatever the physical manifestation of the emotion is. 为什么这样能行得通?
Now why does it work? 它能行得通是因为它形成了一条新的神经通路
It works because it creates an alternative neural pathway. 在原来的神经通路下 当我们感到不适时
With a usual pathway that it's created,when we feel dis-easy, 脑袋就会发现不适 苦苦思索它
it's going into the mind,ruminating about it 通常就会走回原有的通路里
and usually going to the channel that existed before. 这些原来的通路
The channels or channels that existed before, 是和我们的抑郁相连的
and these channels are associated with our depression 和我们之前的消极情绪相连 并且得到增强
or previous negative experiences that have been reinforced. 我们现在要做的
What we are doing now, 不是走回我们脑袋里这些增强了的通路上
instead of going into these enforced channels inside our mind 并且再一次增强它们
and further reinforcing them, 而是形成一条新的通路 痛了?
we are creating an alternative one- oh pain?! 我们进入身体
Let's go to the body. 那条新通路
And that alternative channel- 这个方法管用是因为当我们形成新通路时
the reason why it works because that's when we are drawing, 它通往我们身体的自然治愈能力
that's when we are going to the body's natural ability to heal. 我们患上的大部分疾病
Most of the illnesses that we face, 不是全部 但大部分病身体都能自行治愈
the body has- most not all- has the compacity to heal itself. 大部分切伤的伤口
Most of the cuts that you get- 你不用管它
you don't need to do anything about it. 事实上 你不应该处理小伤口
In fact,you shouldn't do anything about small cuts. 你不用弄它 看它 摸它
You know play with it.Look at it.Touch it. 让自然的力量来治愈它
Just let nature take its course. 它会自己愈合的 消化也一样
It will fix it by itself.Same with digestion. 你不用想着消化
You don't need to think about digest... 身体有自己的内在智慧 内在医生
The body has its own internal wisdom,its own internal healer. 同样道理
And this is exactly what happens 当你不再集中注意力想
when you go and you divert attention from "我该怎么消除它 怎么回事
"oh what I'm gonna do about it; What's happening; 太难受了 我不想这么难受
it's so terrible; I hope I wouldn't feel this way; 我希望快点好起来
I hope I feel better soon; 为什么我会这么难受 因为什么原因"
and why I'm feeling this way; what's the cause." 有时候这样想它 分析它
Somtimes it's important to do it and to analyze it, 把它写下来很重要 但不要钻牛角尖
to write about it,as opposed to to ruminate about it, 或者跟人谈谈 但不要钻牛角尖
or to talk to someone about it,as opposed to ruminating about it 最有效的
But the most effective, 在大部分情况下 就是马上想到身体的感觉
in most situations is just to go to the body,bodily sensation. 察觉它 接受它 不要尝试去治好它
And be aware of it.Accept it.Don't try to fix it. 让它留在那里 观察它
Just let it be there and just observe it. 我们身体内的医生就会治好它
And the,our internal healer will take care of itself. 要熟练运用这种方法 关键是练习
The key,in order to become adept at it is to practice. 练习
It's to practice it. 一次又一次地练习
To do it over and over again, 就像我们在课堂上讲到的其他方法一样
just like everything else that we've discussed in this class. 没有捷径
There are no quick fixes. 我们怎么练习?
How do we practice it? 首先 这是书中的八周疗法中的一部分
First- and this is part of their 8 week program, 我现在也在练 首先是身体扫描
which is what I'm doing right now- the first is body scan. 了解你的身体
Become aware of your body 躺下来 思考 观察
just by lying down and thinking and observing. 先从你的脚开始 然后了解你的膝盖
First of all,your foot and then becoming aware of your knee, 了解你胯部的感觉
becoming aware of sensations in your crotch, 了解你胃的感觉
becoming aware of sensations in your stomach. 每一个身体部位都是
Wherever it is. 了解整个身体
Going through the whole body. 多练习 多了解
And practicing it,becoming more aware. 这是冷状态下的练习
And this is doing it in a cold state. 在模拟状态下的练习
This is doing it in the practice,in a simulator. 当我们在热状态下
Then when we are in a hot state, 当我们真正感受到那种痛苦情绪时
when we actually experience that emotion,that painful emotion, 我们就准备好用这种方法 我们知道怎么用
we are ready to go to it and we know what to do. 练习时 如果我们精神分散了 再集中起来
Practice also means when we lose focus,we go back to it. 这是练习
And that's the practice. 练习并不表示30分钟都要完全集中注意力
The practice is not remaining completely centered for 30 minutes. 练习时 精神分散了 再集中
The practice is losing and coming back. 精神分散了 再集中
Losing focus and coming back again. 然后在现实生活中也要练习
And then,also practicing in the real life. 所以当我感到压力时 我想"好的
So whenever I feel stressed,merely going"OK. 这种情绪引起什么身体反应?"
So what's the physical manifestation of it?" 现在我们谈了情绪
Now here we are talking about the emotions; 谈了身体
we are talking about the body. 你们也可以用认知重建来练习
You can also practice by using cognitive reconstruction. 怎样练习?举个例子
How? For instance. 例如我想到今晚我要做的一个讲座
Let's say I'm thinking about a talk that I have to give tonight. 我感到很紧张
And I'm very nervous for it. 很多观众 重要的观众
Large audience.Important audience. 每次想到这 我第一个反应就是紧张
And every time I think of it,my initial inclination is stress. 我感受到这里的肾上腺素 很难受
And I get this adrenalin feel here and I don't feel good about it 感到我胃打了一个结
Or the knot in my stomach. 我怎么办?每次想到这讲座 我就会想
So how do I deal with it? Each time I think about it,I say, "好的 这个身体反应在哪里?"
"OK.Where am I feeling it in the body?" 另一个方法就是用认知重建它
Another way of dealing with it is cognitively reconstructing it, 不要觉得它是压力 觉得它是荣幸
saying instead of stress,what a privilege. 我刚才说过
Remember I told you that 我要跟一个很大的客户谈
I had a very large client that I had to speak to, 我为这次演讲感到很大压力
I was very stressed about that talk. 每次我脑袋想到这压力时
And every time my mind went to stress, 马上我跟自己说"不 这是荣幸
within half a second I said,"no,it's a privilege. 我能有这样的机会做讲座真是太棒了"
It's so wonderful that I have the opportunity to do it." 重申 这不同于逃避
Again,this is different from avoiding. 不同于抑制
This is different from repressing. 有时候只需要接受它
There is a time to simply accept 明白这是人之常情
and to give ourselves the permission to be human. 但是 苦苦思索这种情绪上是没用的
However it's useless to just constantly ruminate about it 只会加强这条神经通路
and simply strengthen the neural pathways. 这种反应 或者专注于身体
So this reaction of either going to the physical body 或者专注于认知重建
or sometimes going to the cognitive reconstruction 都很有用
can be very useful. 记得 当我们想改变时
Remember when we want change, 我们要想到尽可能多的可能性
we want to draw as much as possible on A,B and C- 想到情感 行为 认知的方法
on affect,on behavior,and cognition. 这只是其中两个有用的办法
And these are just two very helpful techniques. 我经常用这种方法 或者专注于身体
I use it constantly,whether it's going in the body 或者专注于认知重建
or going in cognitive reconstructing. 非常有用
Extremely helpful. 有数据证明它多有用
Again the data shows how helpful it is. 我们也来做一次简单的正念冥想
Let's try it.Let's do a quick mindfulness meditation 运用我讲过的一些方法
and incorporating some of the ideas that I discuss now 和我们以前讲过的一些内容
and things that we've discussed in the past. 大家尽可能舒服地坐在座位上
So sit comfortably in your seats as much as possible. 后背挺直
Your back straight, 如果背靠着椅子更舒服的话 就靠吧
leaning on the back if that is more comfortable. 把脖子尽量伸长
Elongate your neck as much as possible. 上半身形成一条直线
Create a straight line in your upper body. 把脚尽量舒服地放在地板上
Plant your feet as comfortably as you can on the floor. 如果觉得交叉着腿不舒服的 就放下来
If there's a cross and you feel uncomfortable,uncross them. 可以把你的手放在腿上
And rest your hands either on your legs 也可以合起来 你觉得舒服就行了
or fold it however you feel comfortable. 如果你觉得闭上眼睛舒服的 就闭上
And if you feel comfortable,close your eyes. 不管现在你的注意力在哪里
Wherever your attention is now, 都把它集中在你的呼吸上
wherever your focus is now,bring it to your breath. 深深地吸进腹部
Breathe deeply into your belly 然后慢慢地轻轻地呼出来
and then breathe slowly,gently,gracefully out. 深吸一口气 慢慢地轻轻地呼出来
Take a deep breath and slow,gentle,quiet exhalation. 重复几次
And repeat this a few times. 如果你精神分散了
If your mind wanders, 慢慢把它集中回呼吸和练习上就行了
simply,gently bring it back to the breath and practice. 一边呼吸 一边转移你的注意力
As you continue to breathe,shift your attention, 转移到你的身体上
your focus to your body- 你的脚 小腿 腿 手腕 腹部 背
your feet,shins,your legs,your wrist,your belly,your back. 扫描你全身 你的胸膛 脖子 头
Just scan your whole body- your chest,neck,your head. 找出你身体感到微微紧张的地方
And find one area in your body that is slightly tense, 比其他部位更紧张的地方
that you feel more than others, 没有其他部位那么放松的地方
that is less relaxed than the rest of the body. 不管是哪个身体部位
And whatever that part of the body is, 把你的注意力转移到上面 观察不适
shift your attention there and observe the discomfort, 观察这股紧张感
observe the tension. 观察它 接受它
Just observe and accept it is. 继续一边深呼吸
Continue to breathe deeply 一边观察这个身体部位
as you are observing that part of the body. 看看这多有趣
And just look how interesting it is. 你那个部位有这样一个感觉
That you have that sensation there. 每呼吸一次 就接受它
With each breath,embrace it. 你的感觉
There's nothing right; 没有对错之分
there's nothing wrong with how you feel. 它只是一种感觉
The feeling simply is. 继续深呼吸
And continue with the breath 吸进那个部位 再从那里呼出来
to breathe into that part and out of that part. 只需观察它 接受它 与它同在
Simply observing it,accepting it,being with it. 继续与你那个身体部位同在
Continue to be with that part of your body, 一边呼吸 一边感受这种感觉
with your breath and experience the experience. 不管是什么感觉 感受它
Whatever it is,it is. 然后轻轻地把注意力从那个部位移开
And then gently say goodbye to the focus on that particular part. 轻轻地
Very gently, 因为你已经接受它了 你要回到呼吸上
because you just embrace it and return to your breath. 用你的呼吸洗涤整个身体
And with your breath,wash,cleanse your entire body. 从你的灵魂开始
Starting with your souls, 从下到上 一直到你的头
going all the way up to the top of your head. 每次呼吸 平静加深了
And each breath introduces a deeper calm, 接受加深了 存在加深了
deeper acceptance,deeper being. 体验 感受这股轻松感
Just experience,just feel the lightness, 因接受而带来的轻松
the light that comes from acceptance, 自然状态下的轻松
from our natural state of being. 再深吸一口气
Take another deep breath in. 慢慢地轻轻地呼出来
Slow,gentle,quiet exhalation. 呼完下口气 睁开你的眼睛
And with the next exhalation,open your eyes. 如果你旁边的同学睡着了
If the person next to you is asleep,again, 轻轻地推他们一下 或者抱一下他们
just gently nudge them or embrace them. 正念冥想 正念疗法
The effects of mindfulness meditation,mindfulness therapy- 真的能改变我们的思维
it's quite literally mind boggling. 我们练习这种正念冥想时
What we are doing and what mindful therapy does 我们的注意力从作为转移到了不作为上
is change our focus from doing to being. 什么意思?
How is that? 通常当我们感到有压力时
You see usually,usually when we experience something stressful, 或者当我们头脑陷入悲伤情绪时
or when our mind goes to a sad place, 我们第一个反应就是 怎么解决它
our immediate reaction is how can I fix it. 我怎么解决它?
How can I fix it? 我们通过想其他办法来解决它
And we try to fix it by thinking about alternative, 或者想办法让自己好受点
or by getting ourselves to feel better, 或者分析我们面对的问题
by thinking through the problem that we are facing. 为什么?因为我们这种解决问题的思维管用
Why? Because this fixing mind works. 因为有解决问题的思维 我们才有科学
I mean because of the fixing mind that we have science, 才有技术和进步
technology and progress; 因为解决问题 分析问题的思维
and because of the fixing mind,the thinking mind, 你们才考进哈佛
that you got in here. 你们能考进来不是因为你们是成功的冥想家
You didn't get in here because you are a great meditator. 你们能考进 是因为你们考试成绩好
You got in here because you did well in your tests. 你们能解答SAT上的问题
You are able to solve problems well on the SATs. 这是好事 这是重要的技能
And that's a good thing.That's a important skill. 但通常它有反作用
But very often it's counter-productive 尤其是用它来处理思维和心理问题时
when it comes to dealing with mental,psychological issues. 我们会不由自主应用它 我们想解决问题
We gravitate toward it.We want to fix it. 但通常会适得其反
But very often it's counter-productive. 同样会有反作用的
Just like it would be counter-productive 是我们想干预体内的
to try a meddle with the digestion that our bodies go through, 消化过程时
the digestive process. 消化不受我们控制
It happens independent of us. 如果我们想左右它 看清它 分析它 促进它
If we try playing with it,open it,look at it,help it, 我们只会伤害它
we'll only hurt it. 为什么?因为我们体内的主宰 体内的医生
Why? Because the internal mind,the internal healer, 体内的智慧最擅长处理某些事
the internal wisdom knows best to deal with certain things- 不是所有事 但是某一些事
not everything,but certain things. 例如消化 还有通常的 不是所有的
Such as digestion.Such as very often,not always, 通常的精神问题 痛苦情绪
but very often with mental afflictions,with painful emotions. 所以我们要把注意力
So we are moving,we are shifting our focus 从解决这种情绪转移到与它同在
from trying to fix to simply be with that emotion, 感受这种痛苦的身体反应
with that experience,with the manifestation of the pain. 在他们的书中 在牛津任职的William说
In their book,William who teaches at Oxford: "想消除抑郁是通常的解决办法
"Trying to get rid of depression in the usual problem-solving way 想解决不对劲的地方 只会让我们陷得更深
trying to 'fix' what's 'wrong' with us,just digs us in deeper. 苦苦思索是问题症结之一 不是解决方法"
Rumination is part of the problem,not part of the solution." 这里强调苦苦思索
Now the emphasis here is on rumination. 它并不等同于…我们之前谈过
It's not- and we've talked about it at all, 它并不等同于写日记 它是没有益处的
it's not like if you write in your journal,it's not helpful. 把你面对的问题写进日记里
It's good for you to write about issues 是有益于你的
that you are dealing with in your journal. 和亲密朋友谈谈 是有益于你的
It's good to talk to a very close friend. 但如果钻斗角尖
But just rumination, 一次又一次地思索这个问题
going over the same scenario over and over again. 苦苦思索它 想解决它 通常会使它恶化
Ruminating about it,trying to fix it very often makes it worse. 如果我们只是感受这股情绪
And we would be better off just going to the emotion, 感受身体反应 反而会更好
going to the physical manifestation. 大家试试 看哪种方法适合自己
Try it.See what's right for you. 也许适合你的方法是
It may be right for you to you know, 找个时间写半小时
write half an hour on one occasion 然后冥想10分钟
and then just meditate on it for 10 minutes. 也许光是写更适合你
Or it may be right for you to only write about it. 每个人的方法都不同
It's different for different people. 我给大家讲这些
But what I'm doing here 只是希望教会大家另一个心理工具
is I'm adding another tool to your psychological tool box. 例如我们可以借助认知重建
And just like we can cognitively reconstruct, 把威胁看成挑战
as opposed to seeing it as a threat,to see it as a challenge; 把威胁看成荣幸
as opposed to seeing it as a threat,to see it as a privilege; 把失败
as opposed to seeing it as a failure, 看成一次学习机会
just to see it as a learning opportunity. 我们也能情绪重建
We can also have emotional reconstruction, 不要对情绪苦苦思索
where instead of just thinking and ruminating about it, 而是去感受它
we go to the experience. "不再尝试无视和消除身体不适
"With the shift trying to ignore or eliminate physical discomfort 而是抱着关怀之心去关注它
to paying attention with friendly curiosity, 我们就能真真正正地改变我们的感受"
we can transform- quite literally transform our experience." 今天我教大家最后一个方法
I'm going to leave you today with a last tip. 这个方法很重要
And this is something that is very important 我非常推荐 你们所有人都要学 没有例外
and that I highly recommend doing- for all of you,no exception. 我非常推荐的方法是呼吸
What I highly recommend doing is breathing. 呼吸很重要
It's very,very important to breathe. 事实上 它是唯一
And in fact,it's the one thing 所有正念冥想的共通点
that's common to all the mindful meditation practices 你可以把它应用于生活中
and something that you can introduce to your life- 当然我所说的呼吸是正确呼吸
of course I mean proper breathing. 你可以应用到你的生活中
Something that you can introduce to your life, 即使你没有一天冥想15分钟 或45分钟
even if you don't meditate for 15 minutes or 45 minutes a day. 我所说的呼吸是深呼吸
What I'm talking about here is deep breathing. 因为现实情况是
Because here is what happens: 在现代世界 我们经常感到紧张焦虑
in our modern world,we are mostly stressed and anxious. 因此我们的呼吸变得很浅
As a result of this,our breathing becomes shallow. 因为呼吸很浅
And as a result of shallow breathing, 当我们呼吸浅时
when our breathing is shallow, 我们就变得更紧张焦虑
we become even more stressed and anxious. 我们就会陷入一个恶性循环
And we go into this vicious cycle, 一个"或战或逃反应"的恶性循环
vicious downward spiral of the "fight or flight" response. 我们平常就是这样处理的
And that's how we go through most of our days. 庆幸的是我们可以扭转这种循环
Fortunately we can reverse this. 我们可以马上扭转它
And we can reverse this very quickly. 因为我们还知道
Because we also know that 平静和健康促进我们深呼吸
calm and well being leads to deep breathing; 深呼吸又能反过来促进平静和健康
and deep breathing in turn leads to calm and well being. 我们可以扭转这种"或战或逃"的反应
We can reverse the "fight or flight" response 进入Herbert Benson所说的
and enter what Herbert Benson calls, 放松反应 只需三个深呼吸的时间
the relaxation response within as little as three deep breaths. 我们可以把这三个深呼吸的方法
We can introduce these three deep breaths 有计划地应用在一天的生活中
strategically throughout the day. 上课前 下课后
Just before class starts; just when the class ends; 早上醒来时
just when I wake up in the morning; 或者上床睡觉前
or the last thing before I go to bed. 三个深呼吸
Three deep breaths, 有计划地按排到一天的时间点上 能改变你的人生
strategic points through the day can transform a life. Andrew Weil 我们医学院的毕业生
Andrew Weil,graduate of our medical school, 现在任职于亚利桑那州大学 在他很棒的CD中
now at the University of Arizona,in his wonderful CD, 他这样说呼吸
talks about breathing: "如果我只能说一条健康生活的建议
"If I had to limit my advice on healthier living to just one tip, 答案很简单 学习正确呼吸"
it would be simply to learn how to breathe correctly." 这意味着 像婴儿一样呼吸
And that means breathing like a baby breathes. 吸进腹部
Into the stomach. 我说过 这节课不会教什么新知识了
I told you,I'm not going to teach you much new in this course. 你们都知道怎么呼吸
You know how to breathe. 你们一出生就知道怎么呼吸
You learn how to breathe when you were born. 现在我们要做的只是去掉多余的牵绊
All we are doing now is chipping away the excess stone 求助于你的自然智慧 自然医生
so that you go back to your natural wisdom,your natural healer. 在一本很棒的书里
In a wonderful book, Alia Crum的父亲 她和Ellen Langer写了这篇文章
Alia Crum's Dad- she did the article with Ellen Langer- 她父亲Thomas Crum提了几个很好的建议
Thomas Crum gives some good advice about 如何扭转"或逃或战"反应
how we can reverse the "flight or fight" response. 他的其中一个建议
And one of the things that he advises- 就是每次遇到红灯
he says that each time you get to a red light, 把它当作一个深呼吸的机会
use it as an opportunity to breathe deeply- 不管是走路 还是遇到红灯
whether when you are walking and you get to a red light, 或者在车里
or in the car. 以前…我用过这种方法
Now in the past...I introduced it. 以前每次遇到红灯时 都很烦躁
In the past,every time I got to a red light,it was annoying, 尤其是刚刚从绿灯转成红灯时
especially if the light had just changed from green. 现在每次遇到红灯
Now whenever I get to a red light, 我都把它当作一个机会 深深呼吸
it's an opportunity and I breathe deeply. 在生活中学会深呼吸
Introduce deep breathing to your life. 一天几次
Just a few times a day. 能产生深远影响
And that can have far-reaching consequences. 我们下周见
So I'll see you next week. 在此之前 大家深呼吸
And until then,breathe. 掌声
[Applause] 



 Chapter 17: 睡眠、触摸和爱情的重要性


大家好 我叫Jenny Spria
Student:Hi everyone.My name is Jenny Spria. 我在这向你们介绍
And I'm here to introduce you guys 一个我发起的团体
to an organization that I'm starting up. 这个团体叫做哈佛舞蹈实验
The organization is called the Harvard Dance Experiment. 我们的初衷是
And the idea is 想把哈佛所有不同的舞蹈团体都聚在一起
to bring together all the different dance groups at Harvard and 让他们为零起点初学者提供完备场所
have them offer self-contained workshops for complete beginners. 所以我们的想法是
And,so the idea is that 让那些不懂跳舞
people who really don't know how to dance 却对学习舞蹈有兴趣的人
but are interested at learning, 能够从别的同学那尝试各种
could try out a varieties of styles that 哈佛现有的舞蹈风格
are already here at Harvard from other students, 并且有一个非正式的空间让大家聚到一块
and just have a really informal space for people to get together 一起练习 享受乐趣
and exerciseand just have fun. 所以如果你觉得自己可能感兴趣的话
So if you think you might be interested, 我们想核算感兴趣的同学的人数
we are trying to gauge how many people might be interested 看看我们能否把这件事做成
and see if we can make this reality. 请加入Facebook群
Please join the Facebook group, 哈佛舞蹈实验或者发邮件到hdancexp@gmail.com
Harvard Dance Experiment or send an email to hdancexp@gmail.com. 谢谢
Thank you. 掌声
[Applause] 嗨 早上好
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: Hi.Good morning. 下面我们开始今天的内容
So here is what we are going to do today. 今天 我们将讲完身心疗法
Today,we are going to finish up with the mind body. 我们将会讲到睡眠
We are going to talk about sleep. 讲到触摸
We are going to talk about touch. 然后我们将继续到一个
And then we are going to move on to a topic that 本人绝对很喜欢的主题 就是爱情
I'm absolutely in love with which is love. 我们会谈到人际关系
We are going to talk about relationships. 这个是我们上次课讲完的
Where we were finished of last time- 我们讲了身心的联系
we talked about mind body connection, 我们讲了运动的重要性
we talked about the importance of exercise, 我们讲了正念冥想的重要性
we talked about the importance of mindfulness meditation- 它是如何实实在在地转化 改变我们大脑的形态
how it quite literally transforms,changes the form of our brain, 使得前额皮质的左半边
making the left side of prefrontal cortex more active 相对于右半边要更为活跃
relative to the right side. 接着我们讲了呼吸的重要性和如何呼吸
And then we talked about the importance of breathing and 如果我们能在一天中有计划地进行深呼吸
how breathing if it's introduced strategically throughout the day 就能真正的改变我们的生活
can quite literally change our lives- 不管是等红灯时
whether it's standing in front of a red light, 还是早上醒来的第一件事
whether it's the first thing when we wake up in the morning, 还是我们进入教室时或是就现在
whether it's as we enter the class or right now. 深呼吸 深深的腹式呼吸
Deep breathing,deep belly breathing 让我们从或战或逃反应改变为
changes, shifts us from the fight or flight response 放松反应
to the relaxation response. 记住我们在本课程一开始
Remember one of the things that 就说过的一句话 那就是
we talked about at the very beginning of the course is that 我不会教给你们很多新的东西
I will not be teaching you many new things here. 这就是一个很明显的例子
And this is a clear example of that. 你们都知道怎么深深地 正确地呼吸
You all know how to breathe deeply,properly. 你们从出生那天
You knew it from the day you were born 或出生那刻起就知道了
or the moment you were born. 但多年以来
But over the years, 随着压力的不断升级并缺乏恢复
with increasing levels of stress and the lack of recovery, 多年来承受着逐渐增加的压力
over the years with the mounting pressure 逐渐加快的现代生活速度
and the speed of modern life, 我们给自己施加了限制
we've had limitations imposed on us. 我们一直承受着压力
We've been put under stress; 却没人教过我们如何恢复
we haven't been taught how to recover. 我们现在需要做的是逐渐去除这些限制
And what we need to do now is chip away those limitations; 回到我们生来就喜欢的深度呼吸
go back to our innate inclination of breathing deeply. 当我们这么做时 我们扭转了或战或逃反应
And when we do that,we reverse the fight or flight 并创造了一个
and create a growth spiral 由平常的幸福和深呼吸组成的生长螺旋
between common well being and deep breathing- 它会带来更多平常的幸福和更多的深呼吸
that leads to more common well being and more deep breathing. 下一个我想谈论的主题
The next topic that I want to talk about 大家不要在课堂上应用 回去再应用 这主题是睡眠
but I don't want you to apply to right now but later is sleep. 下面是一些关于睡眠的数据
Here are some statistics about sleep. 在爱迪生发明电灯泡之前
So before Edison invented the light bulb, 人们每24小时就平均睡10小时
people slept on average about 10 hours every,every 24 hours. 每天10小时
10 hours a day. 大多是在夜里睡觉 但有时也在白天睡觉
Most of it at night,but sometimes during the day as well. 现今平均每人在工作日期间
Today the average person gets about 6.9 hours sleep 有6.9小时的睡眠时间
during the week 周末则是7个半小时
and 7 and a half hours of sleep on the weekend. 这是全国的平均数据
That's the national average. 至于大学生 数据则有些不同
For college students,it's a little bit different. 有多少人…这样我们来举手表决
How many people- just so I get a show of hands- 你们除了我之外有多少人
how many of you 一晚上能睡足8小时的?好的
other than me get a full 8 hours of sleep a night? OK. 肯定不止这些人 没举手的可能睡着了
I'm sure there are many more.They are probably asleep now. 全国平均数据是:18岁到29岁的人中
So here is the national average: between 18 and 29 year olds, 大约有4分之一的人有8小时的睡眠时间
about a quarter get 8 hours of sleep. 75%的人没有足够的睡眠
75 percent don't get enough sleep. 有些人需要7小时的睡眠
Now for some people they need 7 hours; 有些人需要9小时 有些人16小时 不
some people need 9; some 16- no. 平均需要睡眠时间是8小时
The average is 8. 我们的睡眠时间都就在这个数上下波动
We all vary somewhere around there. 很少有人需要很少的睡眠
there are very few people that need very little sleep 也很少有人真的需要很多的睡眠
and there are very few people that actually need a lot of sleep. 那我们如何知道自己需要多长的睡眠呢?
And how do we know how much sleep we need? 你什么时候自然醒?
When do you wake up naturally? 我们什么时候睡觉 我们什么时候疲劳?
When we go to sleep,when we are tired? 我们可以这样估计睡眠时间 大约是8小时左右
And that's how we can gauge it.It's around 8 hours. 现在有些人会说 "好吧
Now many people are saying,"OK. 对我来说 要睡8小时的话 我一天要有30小时才行
For me to get 8 hours sleep,I'll need 30-hour days. 没有足够的时间去…那是一天的三分之一啊
It's not enough to...It's a third of 24 hours. 太多了 我腾不出那么多时间"
That's too much.I can't afford it." 你可以腾出那么多时间 如果你把它视作一种投资的话
Well you can afford it if you look at it as an investment, 如果你把它当做一件优先要做的事的话
if you make it a priority. 你知道
You know 就像是商人去谈生意说
it's like a business person going making a deal and saying, "在这笔交易上我负担不起10万美元"
"well I can't afford spending 100,000 dollars on this deal." 你要是白送出去自然负担不起
Well you can't afford giving it away.But 但是你会收到每年20%投资的回报
what if you will get return on investment of 20 percent a year. 这就不一样了
Then it changes. 也许我可以负担得起10万
And yeah,maybe I can afford 100,000 if there is ROI- 如果投资是有回报率的话
return on investment on it. 睡觉也是同样的道理
The same with sleep. 这些8小时的投资有很大的回报
And there's a lot of return on investment on these 8 hours- 许多研究都表明了睡眠的重要性
a lot of research showing how important sleep is 和我们把它优先考虑的原因
and why we need to make it a priority. 所以让我简要地列出来几点
So let me just list a few very briefly. 首先 显著增强身体的免疫系统
First of all,physical immune system strengthens significantly. 我是说 我们都知道当我们睡得很少
I mean we all know when we are,when we go on little sleep, 我们会
we end up get- 或者我们在考试周结束后更容易不舒服
or we are more likely to be unwell after an exam period. 这当然也和压力有关
It's of course related to stress as well. 但睡眠本身
But sleep in and of itself- 充足的睡眠增强了我们的免疫系统
enough sleep strengthens our immune system. 精力水平
Energy levels. 有很多理论认为
There are a lot of theories going around that well, 睡5个小时比7个小时好
it's better to sleep five hours than seven hours 由于某些循环
because of certain cycles. 是的 这些循环存在
And yeah,these cycles exist. 但普遍来说 在一定程度上睡多一些更好
But in general,more sleep to a point is better. 如果我们一天睡眠时间超过10个或者11个小时
If we are sleeping more than 10 or more than 11 hours a day,- 有时可能是因为生活上碰到困难
sometimes it's associated with going difficult times; 有时可能是因为抑郁
sometimes it's associated with depression. 抑郁会导致失眠或者另一个极端
Depression can lead to insomnia or can lead to the opposite- 睡得太多
sleeping too much. 但正如我所说 如果你一天睡10个小时
But as I said,you know if you are sleeping 10 hours a day, 这可能意味着你需要一天睡10个小时
it may mean that you need 10 hours a day. 而不是说你抑郁了
Doesn't mean that you are depressed. 而不是说你有什么毛病
Doesn't mean that there's something wrong. 不过看一看
But check it out. 看看你整个生命中
See throughout your life, 你平均需要多少睡眠时间?
how many hours of sleep did you need on average? 在某些程度上说越多的睡眠通常越好
More sleep is generally better up to a certain point. 我们讲过身体动运 当我们不运动时
We talked about physical exercise and that when we don't exercise 我们的体重就会超出基准水平
what we are doing is our weight goes up beyond its base level, 超出天生的或者基因决定的 我们的自然状态
beyond its God given or genes given,our natural state, 这就是为什么越来越多不配合锻炼的
which is why more diets fail 节食减肥会失败
when they are not associated with exercise. 对于睡眠也是同样的道理
The same applies to sleep. 如果我们的睡眠不充足 我们会超出我们的基准体重
If we don't sleep enough,we go beyond our base level of weight- 实际上是相关的 不只是相关 而是因果关系
actually correlational,not just correlational- causation. 缺乏睡眠导致体重增加
Lack of sleep to putting on weight. 如果我们尝试节食 我们又在和自己的天性作斗争
And if we try diet,we are fighting our nature again. 仅仅是充足的睡眠时间
Simply sleep enough- that's 就能有效地改善我们的体重控制
one of the contributing factors to effective weight management. 驾驶技术
Motor skills. 每年有平均10万起车祸
100,000 road accidents on average each year 是由缺乏睡眠引起的
as a result of lack of sleep; 在美国一年有4万人受伤 1500人死亡
40,000 injuries;1500 people killed a year in this country 因为缺乏睡眠
as a result of lack of sleep. 受害人中有的人是没睡好的司机
Either themselves being the drivers who didn't sleep 有的是被没睡好的司机害的
or being the other receiving end of the accident. 在工作场所 日复一日
In the workplace,day in and day out, 由于缺乏睡眠引起的事故
accidents are caused because of lack of sleep 估计造成了1000亿美元的经济损失
costing the economy an estimated 100 billion dollars a year. 认知功能 无论是创造力
Cognitive functioning- whether it's creativity, 生产力还是记忆力 都会在我们不睡时受损
productivity as well as memory that is hurt when we don't sleep, 这就是为什么睡眠是如此重要的一项投资
which is why sleep is such an important investment. 你知道我们经常说
You know very often we say, "让我再熬两个小时学习"
"let me stay up two more hours so I can study." 然而实际上你会完成更多的学习
Whereas in fact you'll get much more studying done, 你会把学习材料记得更好 更有创造性
you'll remember the material better,be more creative, 如果你得到这额外两小时的睡眠的话
if you get these extra 2 hours of sleep. 投资的良好回报
Good return on the investment. 经常我们能在婴儿身上学到很多关于自己的东西
Very often we can learn a lot about ourselves through babies. 为什么?因为婴儿不压抑情绪
Why? Because babies don't suppress emotions. 当婴儿没有得到充足的睡眠会怎样?
what happens to a baby when he or she doesn't get enough sleep? 他们会变得暴躁 会哭 会很痛苦 会很焦虑
They are cranky; they cry; they are miserable; they are anxious. 我是说我们知道
I mean we know that. 我们学会了不要看起来像我们看到的那个婴儿一样
Now we learn not to look like that baby that we saw 这一刻哭 下一刻笑
when we talked about permission to be human, 在我们讲为人之许可时讲过
to cry one moment and to laugh the next. 所以我们压制这些情绪 但我们依旧有这些情绪
So we suppress these emotions but we still have them. 同样 如果我们没有得到充足的睡眠
No different when we don't get enough sleep 我们的导火索就变短了
that's when our fuse is shorter; 那时候我们就更容易大发脾气
that's when we,you know,blow up more often. 我们就会感到焦虑
That's when we feel anxious 生理水平上变得不健康
and getting unhealthy on the physical level; 当然心理上也不健康
of course it's unhealthy psychologically. 睡眠对抑郁的影响更大 原因有二
Affects depression in a even more significant way for two reasons 第一个原因是
The first reason is that 缺乏睡眠容易导致抑郁是因为
lack of sleep is likely to lead to depression is because, 在生理水平来说 正如你看到的婴儿
for the physical level again,just like you see a baby- 他累了的时候就变得暴躁 我们在累了的时候也暴躁
it's cranky when it's tired- we are cranky when we are tired. 这只是纯生理层面上对睡眠的需要
So that's just the pure physical level of needing sleep. 第二个原因是
The second reason is 有一点点微妙也有一点点有趣
a little bit more subtle and a little bit more interesting. 晚上
What happens at night is that 我们的大脑要处理很多
our mind processes a lot of the things that 我们白天经历的事情
we have gone through throughout the day. 它经常解决我们白天经历过的
And very often it solves unresolved issues that 未解决的问题 这就是为什么
we have gone through throughout the day,which is why, 你知道 你带着一个数学问题入睡
you know you go to sleep with a math problem, 经常你会在早上醒来时得到解答
often you wake up in the morning with a solution. 但不只是数学问题在晚上得到解决
But it's not just math problems that are solved at night. 还有其他人际问题
It is also other interpersonal, 内心里的问题要在整个晚上解决
intrapersonal issues that are solved throughout the night. 比如说梦
And if you look at dreams- 通常我们晚上做得比较早的梦
usually the dreams that we have early on during the night 都是比较不愉快的梦
are actually less pleasant,enjoyable dreams. 我们在夜里晚些时候做的梦更容易是愉快的梦
We are more likely to have pleasant dreams later on in the night. 为什么?因为晚上的第一部分
Why? Because the first part of the night, 是我们解决问题的时候
that's when we are working on problems, 我们在解决问题 有些是有意识的
we are dealing with issues- some were conscious; 有些问题则没有意识
some were not conscious during the day. 我们解决了一些问题之后
Later on after we have resolved a few of these problems, 我们的梦就变得更为愉快了
our dreams become more pleasant. 这并不意味着你在上午11点半就不会做噩梦
Again,this doesn't mean you can't have a nightmare at 11:30 am. 它的意思是
But it means that 你睡眠初期做噩梦的可能性更高
you are more likely to have bad dreams earlier on. 当我们不给自己机会去
And when we don't give ourselves the opportunity to "完成梦想"-
"complete our dreaming"- 不可能在一夜睡眠中完全解决问题
complete problem solving through that night, 不可能我们醒来的时候问题解决了
we wake up with that problem unresolved. 这个问题还在
And then it's there, 不管你意没意识到
whether it's on the conscious or subconscious level. 问题还没解决 我们要为此付出代价
It's unresolved.And we pay a price for it. 随着时间过去 我们有许多未解决的问题
And over time,we have a lot of unresolved issues, 特别是当它们被压抑或抑制的时候
especially when they are suppressed or repressed 那时候我则更有可能变得抑郁
when we are more likely to enter depression. 所以为了生理的睡眠需要睡觉
So sleep for the physical need of sleep 同样也为了心理的睡眠需要睡觉
as well as for the psychological need of sleep. 现在大家都谈论美容觉
Now everyone talks about beauty sleep. 为什么?因为那是被证明的 是显而易见的
Why? Because that's manifested.That's obvious. 如果一个人24 36小时没睡过 你能看得出
You can tell when a person hasn't slept for 24,36 hours. 眼睛周围是有黑眼圈的 黑眼圈可以掩藏起来
There are rings around eyes.So you can hide them. 但你仍然可以看出一个人是否衰弱
But still you can see someone is enervated. 睡觉不只是为了美容
But it's not just about a beauty sleep. 还是为了幸福
It's also about happiness sleep. 更是为了智力
It is also about intelligence sleep. 因为我们知道没有睡觉的人
Because we know that people who haven't slept, 比如说24小时没睡 24小时后
say for 24 hours,after 24 hours, 他们的智商降低10个百分点甚至更甚
their IQs reduce by 10 points or more. 所以毫无疑问睡觉能保持美丽
So there is beauty sleep for sure; 不仅如此 睡觉还能保持幸福和智力
but there is also happiness sleep as well as intelligence sleep. 在每个层面上睡觉都是个好投资
It's a good investment on every level. 下面是些非常简要的睡眠小贴士
Here are just very briefly some tips on sleep. 第一件事 一天差不多睡8小时
The first thing- more or less 8 hours a day. 找到适合你的睡眠时间
Find,you know,what is right for you. 你可以晚上睡7小时 午后1小时
But that could mean 7 hours at night and 1 hour in the afternoon. 或者晚上6小时 午后2小时 但总的来说 我们一天需要8小时
Or it could mean 6 and 2.But generally we need 8 hours a day. 如果你一天没有8小时睡眠的话
If you can't get these 8 hours a day,- 你生命里有些时候确实没法做到
there are periods in your life when you won't be able to. 比如考试周
Such as exam periods 那时候睡8小时觉可能有些困难
where it may be a little bit difficult to get the 8 hours. 或者其他压力时期 或者你有小孩的时候
Or another stressful period.Or when you have children. 那要怎么办?小睡
So what do you do? Naps. 小睡实际上被证明极其有效
Naps have actually been shown to be extremely effective. 白天打个瞌睡
Catnaps during the day. 比如睡个20分钟
You know sleep for 20 minutes. 虽没有晚上多睡两小时的效果好
It's not as good as sleeping extra two hours at night. 但也比白天不睡
But it's certainly a lot better 要强得多
than not getting any sleep during the day. 所以小睡也是非常好的投资
So naps are also very good investment. 你知道白天有效地小睡个15 20分钟
You know take a power nap for 15,20 minutes during the day 在一定程度上 虽不及夜晚充足的睡眠
that to an extent- not like a full night sleep- 但在一定程度上恢复了某些认知
but to an extent restores some of the cognitive 和情绪能力
as well as emotional capacities. 许多人入睡有困难
Many people who have problems falling asleep- 是因为他们吃得太晚了或者锻炼得太晚了
the reason is because they eat too late or they exercise too late 你知道 血液依然流得很快
and you know,the blood is still flowing fast; 心脏依然跳得很快 他们很精神
the heart is still beating; they are energized. 所以不要在睡前吃太多…
So not to eat too much before you go to... 有些人是可以边吃着边睡着的
Some people you know can fall asleep as they are eating. 但对于某些人
But there are certain people 吃了太多 是很难入睡的
for whom it's a little bit more of an issue. 所以注意点自己的饮食
So just watch your diet a little bit. 注意下自己的锻炼安排 不要在太晚的时候锻炼
Watch your exercise regime- not to exercise too late. 还有患有失眠症的人
Also other people who have insomnia- 确实有很大数量的人有失眠症
large numbers do have insomnia: 这些人不要强自己所难
it's to give yourself the permission to be human. 我想这个教室里没有哪个人
I don't think there is one person in this room 没遇过偶尔入睡困难的情况
who hasn't at times had difficulty falling asleep. 在考SAT前 在考试前 在约会前
Before the SATs; before an exam; before a date. 这是很正常的
And it's natural. 你知道 在过去
You know in the past, 总的来说 我没有入睡难的问题
generally I don't have problems falling asleep. 我10点上床 然后就不省人事了
I get to 10 pm- then I'm zonked. 但有时 在困难时期 压力时期
But sometimes when I did have problems during difficult periods, 我遇到问题的时候 最初的时候我告诉自己
stressful periods,initially I would tell myself, "好吧 现在睡觉 现在睡觉 睡觉" 对吧?
"OK.Fall asleep now.Fall asleep now.Fall asleep." Right? 就像是"别焦虑 别焦虑"一样
It's like "Don't be anxious.Don't be anxious." And 然后你有了幻觉 它阻碍你入眠
then you have pink elephants preventing you from going to sleep. 不要强自己所难
Instead give yourself permission to be human. 现在我入眠有困难 我就对自己说
Now I have difficulty falling asleep I said to myself, "嗯 这是个思考和反省的机会"
"well,it's an opportunity to think and reflect." 常常我会想得烦了就睡着了
And very often that bores me and I fall asleep. 不要强自己所难
Permission to be human. 最后 你内在的节律是什么?
And finally,what are your internal rhythms? 如今因为我们有了电灯
Now because we have the light bulb today, 因为我们住在室内而非暴露的小屋
because we are living indoors as opposed to living in huts 和与大自然相联系
that are exposed or caves that are in touch, 直接相联系的洞穴
directly in touch with nature. 我们把自己从大自然中隔离了出来
We have separated ourselves with,from nature. 我们也为此付出代价
And we pay a price for it. 不论是因为我们不需要狩猎和收割
Whether we pay a price for it because we don't exercise enough 因而锻炼不足而付出代价
since we don't have to hunt and gather. 还是因为我们不注意
And we pay a price also because we don't pay attention, 我们不再认识
we are no longer cognizant, 留意或关心自身的内在节律而付出代价
mindful or heartful of our internal rhythms. 你晚上需要多少时间?
How many hours in night do you need? 你是夜猫子还是早起鸟?
Are you a night person or a morning person? 你需要晚上10点睡觉吗?
Do you need to go to sleep at 10 pm? 或者你需要早上5点睡觉吗?什么时间适合你?
Or do you need to go to sleep at 5 am? What's right for you? 试着去创造一个和你天性需求一致的生活
Try and create a life that is in line with your natural needs. 这并非总是能做到
That's not always possible. 如果你去上班 在大学里这相对来说还是可能的
If you go in work- in college it's relatively possible. 你的时间非常有弹性
You are quite flexible. 因为你知道你可以…这堂课是11点半上的
Cause you know you can come...This class is at 11:30. 这堂课也被拍了录像
It's also videotaped. 所以如果你想睡到中午 那也没问题
So if you want to sleep till noon,that's fine too. 你可以下了课从头看 所以你可以自由安排时间
And then you'll watch it started.So you can play around with it. 在你将来工作的时候 或者在你上中学的时候
When you work in the future,or when you were in high school, 中学是7点半或者8点上课 你不得不到
the high school started at 7:30 or 8,you had to be there. 还是尽可能地知道
Still as much as possible trying to be aware, 认识到自己的内在节律
cognizant of your internal rhythms 比如你需要多少睡眠时间
in terms of the hours that you need 和你什么时候需要睡觉
and also when you need those hours. 关于睡眠有很多研究
There's been a lot of research on sleep. 很多研讨会和课程
I mean there are entire seminars and classes 只研究睡眠需求
just on the need for sleep. 让我来总结一下William Dement的研究工作
Let me summarize through the work of William Dement, 他是斯坦福大学的教授
who is a professor at Stanford 在他醒着的时候做了很多关于睡眠的研究
and does a lot of sleep research when he is awake: "剥夺睡眠对健康
"Effects of sleep deprivation on health 和幸福的影响已被研究证明
and well-being have been documented by research. 睡眠剥夺会使认知能力和生理机能
Cognitive skills and physical performance 受到损害
are impaired by sleep deprivation, 对心情的影响则更甚
but mood is affected even more. 夜晚睡眠不足的人
People who get less than a full night's sleep are 易于感觉不快乐 更紧张 身体虚弱
prone to feel less happy,more stressed,more physically frail 和精神和身体上愈发疲劳
and more mentally and physically exhausted as a result. 充足的睡眠让我们感觉更好 更快乐
Sufficient sleep makes us feel better,happier, 更有精力和活力"
more vigorous and vital." 再一次我认为
Again I don't think 教室里没有哪个人是不知道这些的
there is one person in the room who didn't already know this. 再说一次我们没有教任何新的东西
Again we are not teaching anything new. 我只是让提醒你们已经知道的东西
I'm just reminding you of the things that you already know. 让我继续下一个主题 和我最爱的主题有关
Let me move on to a topic that is related to my favorite topic- 那就是触摸
and that is touch. 美国人普遍 再一次 这是个普遍的平均数据
Americans are in general- again,this is a generalization average 普遍来说属于世界上触觉最迟钝的人
in general are among the least tactile people in the world. 我们花了很多时间沉浸于我们其他的感觉中
We spend a lot of time indulging our other senses- 去好餐厅
going to great restaurants, 把我们自己和男朋友用香水喷得香香的
perfuming ourselves and our boyfriends with the best smell. 但我们触摸的不够
But we don't touch enough. 正像睡眠 像锻炼
And it's physical need just like sleep is,just like exercise is, 像人际关系一样 它是身体的需要
just like relationships are. 它是人际交往中重要的一部分
Ant it's an important part of relationships. 在这一领域中最出色的研究工作是Tiffany Field做的
The best work in the area was done by Tiffany Field 她本来是按摩治疗师 看到了按摩的功效
who was a massage therapist and saw the effects of massage, 就去研究了这个课题
went out,studied this topic, 拿到她的博士学位 现在是迈阿密大学的教授
got her PHD and now is a professor at the University of Miami. 她的研究
And what she shows through her research 及其他人的研究显示了
and other people's research 在人与人的接触中触摸的重要性
is how important getting in touch with touch is. 例如 对于身体健康来说 不论是
For example,for physical health- whether 我们的免疫系统因为触摸而大大增强
it's our immune system strengthens significantly with touch, 还因为缺少足够的触摸而严重地降低
weakens drastically without sufficient touch. 触摸有助伤口愈合
It helps overcome injuries. 不需要专业的按摩师
And that's not just professional massagist, 不需要专业的理疗师
or professional physiotherapist. 简简单单的触摸就可以了
Just the act of touch. 儿童在受到触摸时成长得更好
Children grow more when they are touched. 我们一会会谈到一些研究
And we'll talk about research in a minute- 一些叹为观止的研究
some mind-boggling research. 它关系到身体健康 也关系到精神健康
It's physical health; it's also mental health. 再一次
Once again, 儿童的认知发展受到触摸的影响
children's cognitive development is affected by touch- 在心境障碍
mental health in terms of mood disorders, 饮食失调方面的精神健康常常与缺乏触摸
eating disorders are associated very often with lack of touch 或触摸不足有关
or not enough touch. 由缺乏触摸引起的抑郁和焦虑
Depression and anxiety are caused by lack of touch, 可以通过加强触摸得到克服
can be overcomed often with more touch. 希望你们现在确信了:触摸能改善性生活
Hopefully you are convinced now: better sex life with touch. William Johnson 抱歉William Masters和Virginia Johnson
So William Johnson- sorry,William Masters and Virginia Johnson, 两位最重要的性治疗师及研究者
two of the most important sex therapists and researchers. 他们的研究表明性功能障碍
What they have shown is that sexual dysfunction, 大部分性功能障碍
most sexual dysfunctions- 实际上 有70%到95%是可以
in fact,between 70 and 95 percent of them 简单地在触摸的帮助下得到解决的
can be solved simply with the help of touch. 所以他们所认为的实际上是
So what they are saying actually is that 前戏不应该只是达到目的的手段
foreplay should not be just used as a means toward an end; 他们认为前戏本身也可以是目的
they are saying that it can be an end in itself. 触摸起到的作用本质上来说
And what touch does is essentially 正是幸福心理学的内容
what positive psychology is all about. 性 不 那个…
Sex.No.So... 我刚才是不是说得很大声?好吧 我想是的 好的
Did I say that out loud? Yes,I guess I did.All right. 所以幸福心理学的目标就是
So what positive psychology is about is- 记住 让我们从消极达到零点
remember,getting us from the negative to the zero, 再让我们从零点到达幸福
but then getting us from the zero to the positive. 所以他们在研究中表明了
So what they have shown in their research is that 触摸有助性功能障碍
touch helps sexual dysfunction- 好的 让我们运行起来
OK so let's function; 让我们到达这里 但他们也认为
let's get to here- but they are also saying is that 触摸能活跃性生活
touch contributes to a thriving sexual relationship. 所以它不只是解决问题
So it's not just helping with problems; 它还让我们从零点变成活跃
it's also making,taking us from the zero to the thriving. Martin Seligman有本书
Martin Seligman has a book 是关于普遍心理干预的
about looking at generally psychological interventions- 哪些起到作用的 哪些没有
those that work,those that don't. 正如我们在课上讲的
And as we've talked about in class a lot, 大部分干预没有作用
most interventions do not work. 这点我们可以从剑桥萨默维尔研究中得出
We saw it with the Cambridge Somerville study 一个5年的干预实际上长期看来
where a 5 years interventions actually had a negative effect 起到了负面的作用
in a long term. 我们看到那么多自助
We see it with so many of the self-help books 提供权宜之计的书
offering quick fixes. 它们不起作用
They don't work. 他研究了 Williams Masters和Johnson的研究
He researched,Williams Masters and Johnson's studies 通过综合分析发现
and what he found doing a meta analysis is that 70%到95%的时间里他们的方法是有用的
between 70 and 95 percent of the time their prescription works. 再一次 这几乎在社交心理学中
Again this is almost unheard of in social psychology 或社会科学干预中前所未闻 但它起效了
or social sciences intervention that these things work. 触摸是一个需要 如我之前所说 正如…
Now touch is a need.As I said earlier,just like... 触摸是一种需要 正如身体锻炼是一种需要
Touch is a need just like physical exercise is a need, 正如吃饭睡觉是需要一样
just like food and sleep are needs. 这有个关于医院早产婴儿病发的故事
So this is a story about a hospital ward for premature babies. 他们发现
And what they found there was that 早产婴儿病房有一个区域的
one of the sections in that hospital ward for premature babies 成功水平要远远高于
had a much higher level of success compared to the other sections 同病房其他区域
in the hospital ward. 换言之
In other words, 就是婴儿的身体好得更快
the babies were getting better much more promptly. 他们更健康了 在后续对他们的长期跟踪里
They were healthier; when they followed them in the long term, 他们实际上显示出了更好的认知能力
they actually showed better cognitive 和生理发育
as well as physical development. 他们对此感到很奇怪 他们就想 我是说
And they were wondering about it and they thought,I mean "可能是因为空气 可能是因为在医院的位置"
"it could be the air; could be the location in the hospital." 因为其他所有东西都是一样的 他们吃一样的食物
Because everything else is identical- they got the same food; 受到一样的治疗
they got the same treatment. 有一位医生就特别想弄清楚
And one of the doctors really wanted to find out what was it 这个早产婴儿病房的这个区域
about this specitic section in the hospital for premature babies 有什么对他们的健康那么有帮助
that actually contributed so much to their well being. 于是他观察了那个地方
So he was,you know,watching the place. 一天晚上
And one night, 他坐在一个看不见的地方 听到了一个声音
he was just sitting somewhere out of sight and he heard a sound. 他看了看 不想被人看到他
And he looked- didn't want to be seen. 一个护士进来了 一个他认识的护士
And a nurse came in- a nurse he knew. 他在这家医院很长时间了
He'd been in the hospital for a long time. 这个护士走进病房 抱起一个早产婴儿
And the nurse walked in,picked up a premature baby, 这是违反医院规定的
which was against the rules in the hospital. 因为他们不能被人触摸 他们必须呆在保育箱里
Because they cannot be touched; they had to be in the incubators. 她抱起婴儿
Picked up the baby, 轻轻抚摸他 轻轻地触摸他
and just stroked him,just touched him very gently, 跟他讲话 然后把他放下
talked to him and then put the baby down, 再走到下一个育儿箱 抱起婴儿
and then walked to the next incubator,picked up the baby, 非常温柔地轻抚他 把他放下
just very gently stroked him and put him back down, 她把病房那个区域所有的婴儿都抱了
and did that to all the babies in that section of the ward. 她在她值班时晚上这么晚做这些
Now she did it late at night during her shift 是因为这是违反规定的
because it was against the rules. 然后她走出去
And then she walked out. 这件事衍生了一堆
And that incident spun off a whole line of research 对婴儿的触摸的重要性的研究
about the importance of touch,with babies in general, 特别是对早产婴儿
specifically with premature babies. 于是Tiffany Fields做了这个研究
So Tiffany Fields did this study where 她让早产婴儿在医院里
premature babies were subject to 45 minutes a day of massage 一天做45分钟按摩
while they were in the hospital. 非常轻的按摩 他们很幼小
Very gentle massage- I mean they are tiny. 他们发现
And what they found was that 这些婴儿在医院里
these babies put on 47 percent more weight 增加了47%的体重
while they were in the hospital. 一年后 已经出院回家了
A year later when they are already at home, 他们身体上
they had better development physically 认知能力上和运动技能上有了更好的发展
as well as in terms of cognitive skills as well as motor skills. 只是因为被更多地触摸了
Just as a result of being touched more often. 我们需要触摸 这是先天本能的需求
We need touch.It is an innate instinctual need. 实际上 有关于触摸剥夺的研究
In fact,there's been research on touch deprivation. 但并不是在人类身上进行的研究
And it wasn't done on human beings; 是在猴子身上进行的研究
it was done on monkeys. Harry Harlow
Harry Harlow, 非常著名的心理学家 他研究的是一群猴子
a very famous psychologist worked with a group of monkeys, 他把这些猴子从它们的母亲身边带走
whom he took away from their mothers. 不给他们任何触摸
Didn't provide them any touch. 其他需求都满足
Every other need was provided. 他发现
And what he found was that 这些猴子身体上的成长不如其他猴子
these monkey didn't grow physically as much as the other monkeys; 他们的认知发育受到了损害
their cognitive development was impaired; 他们表现出自闭症的行为 例如
and they displayed autistic-like behavior- for example, 他们会坐下 抬起脚然后摇晃
they would sit down,put their legs up and then rock. 你们看过这场景吗?
You've seen this? 你知道就像在 那个达斯汀·霍夫曼演的电影?
You know like in the- what's the movie with Dustin Hoffman? "雨人"
The Rain Man! 在那部电影里 他就坐下然后这样摇晃
You know where he would just sit down and rock this way. 许多猴子表现出了完全一样的行为
So many of these monkeys displayed exactly this behavior- 这种摇晃 自闭症的行为
this rocking,autistic behavior. 残忍的研究 无论是在蚂蚁还是猴子身上
Cruel study whether it's done on ants or monkeys, 自然也会在人身上做
certainly on human beings. 不幸的是 这研究在人身上做过
Unfortunately it has been done on human beings. 这是人类实施过的最大的 悲剧的
This is one of the largest,natural,tragic 自然实验之一
experiments ever carried out. 这个实验是在齐奥塞斯库统治下的罗马尼亚完成的
This was specifically done in Romania under Ceau?escu- 那个残暴的独裁者统治着这个国家直到1989年
the cruel dictator that ruled over the country until 1989. 他做的一件事就是把许多孩子从父母身边带走
One thing that he did was take many kids away from their parents, 特别是那些父母与之政见不同的
especially if the parents were dissident, 那些父母不是"有文化"的共产党员的
the parents were not "cultural" communists. 所以他把15万个孩子带到收养所养育
So he took their kids and raised 150,000 kids in homes 远离他们的父母
away from their parents. 现在这些收容所 因为那是个非常贫穷的国家
Now these homes- because it was a very poor country, 没有钱提供看护 足够的看护
had no money for nurses,for enough nurses, 没有钱请足够的工作人员
had no money for enough supports staff in general. 这些孩子的身体需求得到满足
So while these kids got all their physical needs 有食物 水 还能洗澡
in terms of food water and they were cleaned, 但他们并没有得到爱
they did not get much affection, 不是因为那些看护不愿意给他们爱
not because the nurses did not want to give them affection. 而是她们没有那个时间
They just didn't have the time. 在1989年 战争爆发 齐奥塞斯库被驱逐
In 1989,the war fell.Ceau?escu was ousted. 这些孩子被从这些收容所里释放
And these kids were released from these homes. 心理学家去收容所里
And psychologist went in and 他们看到的是这个悲剧的自然实验的后果
what they saw was the result of this tragic,natural experiment. 在身体成长方面
In terms of physical growth, 这些孩子中只有3%到10%的人
these kids were between 3 and 10 percent 与他们同年龄段孩子的体型是相当的
in size relative to their age group. 认知力发展方面 水平远远低于100的平均智商
Cognitive growth- the level of,way below the 100 IQ average. 运动发育方面
Motor development- 同样也由于缺乏触摸而严重受损
also impaired significantly as a result of lack of touch. 许多孩子抱着腿坐着
And many of these kids were sitting down 不停地摇晃
with their legs to their chest and just rocking. 触摸剥夺的影响
The effect of touch deprivation. 现在触摸是很重要的 再一次 让我们到达这里
Now touch is important- once again to get us here. 我们在零点 我们很好
And we are here and we are fine- 问题是我们如何才能向前?
the question is how do we get beyond this? 触摸也可以把我们带到那
Well touch can take us there as well: 不只是好 还要非常好
not just to being OK but also to thriving. 触摸的重要性
The importance of touch. Virginia Satir 一位心理学家如是说
Virginia Satir who's a psychologist has this to say: "我们一天需要4个拥抱才能存活
"We need 4 hugs a day for survival. 我们一天需要8个拥抱才能维持
We need 8 hugs a day for maintenance. 我们一天需要12个拥抱才能成长"
We need 12 hugs a day for growth." 她是以诗歌的形式说出来的
Again she says the half,you know,in gest. 尚没有实质上的研究表明要多少个拥抱…
there's not actual research showing how many hugs... 很好 你今天还差11个拥抱
Very good.You have 11 more left for today. 不过…很好 很好
But...Good.Good. 不过还有一个关于拥抱的研究
So there is though actual research on hugs. 这是Jane Clipman做的研究
So this is Jane Clipman who did research. 属于一个心理干预 很简单
And here is the intervention- very simple. 一天至少5个拥抱
It was every day give at least 5 hugs. 面对面的拥抱 不是和你的情侣…
These are frontal hugs,you know not with your partner- 就是拥抱 拥抱不同的人 朋友
just hugs to different people,friends. 也可以是你的情侣
Can be your partner as well. 但这些明确地是和性无关的拥抱
But these are specifically nonsexual hugs. 然后她发现4周后
And she found after 4 week was that the people 这一组的人 与对照组不同
who were in this group as opposed to the control group- 对照组的人要写出他们每天读了多少小时的书
and the control group had to write how many hours a day they read 对照组的幸福水平明显没有提高
The control group's level of happiness obviously didn't go up. 每天拥抱5次的那组却显著提高
The group that hugged 5 times a day went up significantly. 她谈论起这个实验时说
Now this exercise,this experiment when she talks about, 对某些人来说 拥抱要困难得多
she says it was much more difficult for some people, 特别是男人
especially for men. 但即使这样 参与这组的男人 大部分还是拥抱了
But even the men who were part of it,most of them hugged. 他们可以在运动场上拥抱
So they would do it on the sports field. 他们可以找机会或者想方设法地一天拥抱5次
They would find opportunities or somehow got in 5 hugs a day. 而这些这么做了的人真的变得更快乐了
And those people who did that actually became happier. 我本来想把这作为本周课后作业
Now I was going to assign this as your response paper this week. 我现在不布置了 但我推荐你们去做
I am not going to do it,but I recommend it. 强烈推荐和建议
So it's a very strong recommendation and suggestion 从现在开始
from now on till, 在你以后的日子里 至少5个拥抱 12个更好
and the rest of your life- at least 5 hugs,preferably 12. 拥抱的好处就是它是双赢的
The nice thing about hugs is that it's a win-win. 因为当我们拥抱某人时 我们也被拥抱了
Because when we hug someone,we are hugged back; 当我们触摸某人时 我们也被触摸了
when we touch someone,we are touched back. 就像幸福 当我们分享它的时候 它就越来越多
It's like happiness.When we share it,it grows. 这是个双赢 正正得正的游戏
It's a win-win,positive sum game. 关于拥抱和触摸有个重要的事要记住
Important thing to keep in mind about hugs, 那就是要尊重对方
and touch in general is to respect the other person. 因为不是每个人被触摸时都会像我们一样感觉良好的
Because not everyone feels as comfortable being touched as we do. 或者我们被触摸可能感觉会不舒服
Or we may not feel comfortable being touched. 那没有关系 有许多原因
And that's fine for many reasons. 你知道有人可能比较有教养
You know one could be upbringing; 有人可能只是身体上不习惯 人和人是不同的
one could be just physically people are different- 有些人更喜欢被触摸
there are some people who enjoy touch much more than others. 那没关系 这是自然的
And that's fine; it's natural. 所以我们需要尊重别人的界线
So we need to respect other people's boundaries 也要让别人尊重我们的
as well as have others respect our own. 不过总的来说 触摸是很重要的 触摸很好
But in general,touch is important.Touch is good. 我们需要变成触觉更敏锐的人
And we need to become a more tactile individual 同样 一个触觉更敏锐的社会
as well as a more tactile society. 让我来给你们看个例子
Let me show you an example now of 就是一些人是如何比别人更喜欢拥抱的
how some people like hugs more than others. 好了 再一次 这是我们的药方
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: OK.So once again,here is the prescription. 非常简单
Very simple. 一周至少4次 一次至少30分钟的身体锻炼
4 times at least a week,30 minutes of physical exercise at least 正念冥想
Mindfulness meditation. 如果你方便的话 每天10或15分钟
If it's good for you,every day 10,15 minutes. 如果不方便 至少
If not,at the very least, 全天也要有安排地做几个深呼吸
a few deep breaths strategically place throughout the day. 晚上8小时的睡眠 一天至少5个 最好12个拥抱
8 hours of sleep at night and at least 5,ideally 12 hugs a day. 这可能是你听说过的
This is probably the most powerful psychological prescription 最有效力的心理学药方了
that you will ever get or hear about. 它能让我们自然健康状态
And all it does is bring us back to our base level of well being, 我们天生的或者基因决定的水平 幸福水平
our God given or genes level,genes given level of happiness. 让我们现在继续到 另一个主题
Let's move on now to another topic. 下面是我今天想对你们说的
Here is what I want to talk to you about today. 音乐:Let's Talk About Love 席琳·迪翁
[SONG: Let's Talk About Love BY CELINE DION] 让我们来谈谈爱
Let's talk about love 让我们来谈谈我们
Let's talk about us 让我们来谈谈生活
Let's talk about life 让我们来谈谈信任
Let's talk about trust 让我们来谈谈爱
Let's talk about love 好了
OK.[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] 那么咱们来谈谈爱 被谈论得最多的话题
So let's talk about love- the most talked about topic, 是让人有感触的话题 到处都在谈论
the most felt topic talked about everywhere 从餐厅到卧室 到教室 现在就是了
from the dining room to the bedroom,to the classroom evidently. 然而它也是最受误解的话题
And yet it's the most misunderstood topic out there. 人际关系 亲近的 亲密的关系
Relationships- close,intimate relationships, 无论是和爱人 还是和家人
whether it's with lovers,whether it's with family members, 还是和亲密的灵魂伴侣 朋友
whether it's with close soul mates,friends, 这些爱都是头号的幸福预言者
is the No.1 predictor of happiness. 我们今天的重点会是
Our focus today will be on- 下节课也是 情侣关系
and the next lesson will be on- romantic relationships. 但是 我们仅仅重点讨论情侣关系
However,we are focusing on romantic relationships simply 因为在很多方面 它是具有代表性的
because in many ways it's the tip of the stem; 它包括了其他关系中的许多东西
it includes many of the things that other relationships include. 我们所讲的观点
But the ideas that 也可以应用到亲密的友情
we talk about apply as much to close friendships, 家庭关系中去
family relationships as well. 一开始我给你们看一个
Let me begin by showing you a ? 电影"偷穿高跟鞋"中的片段
excerpt from the movie "In Her Shoes"- 当卡梅隆·迪亚兹向她在电影中
when Cameron Diaz reads something, 结婚的姐姐
a beautiful poem to her sister 读了一首优美的诗
in the movie who is getting married. 把声音开大 谢谢
Just the volume please. 电影片段
[VIDEO: CLIP OF MOVIE "IN HER SHOES"] 此刻非常神圣的时刻
And now a very special moment. 小姐?
Young lady? 这不在婚礼的程序中
Uh,this isn't in the program. 因为这是个惊喜
Cause it's a surprise. 我经常给Rose惊喜
I surprise Rose a lot. 通常 她讨厌那些惊喜
Uh,usually,she hates it. 我想 我希望她喜欢这个
I think,or I hope she likes this. 这是E.E.Cummings的一首诗
It's a poem by E.E.Cummings. 献给你
For you. "我将你的心带在身上
"I carry your heart with me. 用我的心将它妥善包藏
I carry it in my heart. 天长日久也不会遗忘
I am never without it. 无论我前往何方 都有你伴我身旁
Anywhere I go,you go,my dear. 即便我单独成事 那也是出于爱人 你的力量
And whatever is done by only me is your doing,my dearling. 面对命运我从不恐慌
I fear no fate. 只因你就是我命运的方向
For you are my fate,my sweet. 世间万物于我皆如浮云 只因你在我眼中就是天地四方
I want no world,for,beautiful,you are my world,my true. 这秘密无人知晓 在我心底埋藏
Here's the deepest secret no one knows. 它是根之根 芽之芽 天之天
Here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud 都是生命之树所生长
and the sky of the sky of a tree called life, 这大树高于心灵的企望 也高于头脑的想象
which grows higher than the soul can hope or mind can hide. 是造化的奇迹 能够隔离参商
It's the wonder that's keeping the stars apart. 我将你的心带在身上
I carry your heart. 用我的心将它妥善包藏"
I carry it in my heart." 那是什么?
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: What is that? 根之根 芽之芽?
Root of the root,bud of the bud? 能够隔离参商?
The thing that keeps the stars apart? 让我们试着来理解它
Well let's try and understand it. 只是比我们已知的要多那么一点
Just a little bit more than we already do. 再一次 人际关系是一种天性的需求
Once again,relationships are a natural need. 没有人是孤岛 没有人能脱离人际关系
No person is an island.No one can survive. 而生存 而成长
No one can certainly thrive without relationships. 让我们再看一遍
Let's revisit the research that 我们几个月前讲过的关于极度幸福的人的研究
we talked about couple of months ago of the extremely happy people. 还记得在晚餐时
Remember at dinner Martin Seligman选择了这10%的最幸福组
and Martin Seligman chose the 10 percent happiest group, 最拔尖的 并研究了他们
the tip of the stem and study them. 他们的发现之一 如果你还记得的话
And one of the things that they found if you remember was that 是他们和别人一样也经历了困难
they experience hardships just like everyone else. 他们有时会经历焦虑 紧张 抑郁 沮丧
They experience anxiety,stress,depression at times,frustration 但是 他们和其他人的区别
However,the difference between them and the rest- 那些不是最幸福的人
those are not the tip of the stem- 是他们恢复得更快
is that they recover more promptly. 换言之 他们有更强大的免疫系统
They have a stronger immune system in other words. 为何他们有更强大的免疫系统的原因之一
One of the reasons why they have a stronger immune system, 他们对自己经历表现与他人不同的原因之一
one of the reasons they interpret their experience differently 是因为他们有…
is because they have- 这是他们和其余人的不同之处
and this is differentiator between them and the rest- 他们有很强的人际关系
they have thriving personal,interpersonal relationships- 无论是和情侣 还是和灵魂伴侣
whether it's with romantic partners,or with soul mates, 还是和家人 或者以上这些都有
or with family members,or all of the above. 这是这组人与人不同的一个特点
But this is one distinguishing characteristic of this group- 他们有亲近 亲密的关系
that they have close,intimate relationships. 这就大有不同了
And that makes all the difference. 为什么?两个原因
Why? For two reasons. 首先 因为当你快乐时
First of all,because when you are happy, 你会和你亲近的 真正在意的人
you share your happiness with someone close to you 分享快乐 那就增加了
who truly cares about- that enhances, 放大了你的快乐 同样也是他们的快乐
amplifies your happiness as well as their happiness. 这是个双赢
That's the win-win. 当你经历艰难困苦时
When you go through hardships and difficulties, 拥有亲密的关系能帮助你克服困难
having close relationships helps us overcome it. 所以再一次 无论是从消极到零点
So again,whether it's from the negative to the zero, 还是从零点到幸福 亲近的亲密关系
or from the zero to the positive,close intimate relationships 显著地有助于变得幸福
contribute significantly to becoming happy. 但是人际关系中的关键是认识自己
The key though in relationships is to know yourself, 就是知道自己的需要
meaning to know your needs. 因为我们每个人需要的人际关系都不一样
Because we don't all have the same relationship need. 没有统一的药方
There is no one prescription. 不可能说 一天5个拥抱然后你就更幸福了
You know,there's no,OK,five hugs a day then you'll be happier; 5个密友 你知道 一个或两个爱人还有…
5 close friends,you know,one or two lovers and... 没有这样的药方
There is no such prescription. 是因人而异的
It's different for different people. 我还想回顾一下千层面定律
And I want to revisit the lasagna principle. 还记得幸福书里的千层面定律
Remember the lasagna principle from the happiness book. 那就是我们都需要…
And that is that we all need- 比方说 我很爱我的家人
example I gave there is so I love my family- 家人对我来说是世界上最重要的
the most important thing in the world to me. 但是 那并不意味着我愿意一天
However,that doesn't mean I want to spend,you know, 花8个或者10个小时和家人在一起
8 or 10 hours a day with my family every day all day. 你知道我还需要独处的时间配额
You know I also need my quota of solitude. 我需要练瑜伽 我需要锻炼 写作 教学
I need my Yoga.I need my exercise,my writing,my teaching. 那并不意味着我的家人对我来说就不重要了
That does not mean that my family is any less important to me. 或者说我喜欢写作 我确实喜欢
Or let's say I love to write,which I do. 我一天能写3个小时 不能再长了
I can write for three hours a day,not longer. 为什么那是千层面定律…
And the reason why that's the lasagna principle- 如果你们还记得 千层面是我最爱的食物
if you remember lasagna is my favorite food. 我每次回家 我妈妈总给我做千层面
And whenever I go home,my mom makes lasagna. 但那并不是说我需要每天整天都吃千层面
But that does not mean I want lasagna every day all day. 你知道一周吃5顿对我来说就够了
You know five times a week is more than enough for me. 或者一周吃一顿
Or once a week. 但是你需要找到自己的配额 人际关系也是一样
But you need to find your quota- the same with relationships. 人际关系也是一样
The same with relationships. 问问自己 每天和别人相处多少小时
Ask yourself: how many hours a day is good for me, 我就觉得愉快 觉得和人相处是一种享受
pleasant for me,enjoyable for me to spend with other people. 决定这个合适时间的因素
One of the things that differentiates people 就是看你是内向还是外向
in terms of the right amount is introversion and extraversion. 我们都有一个
We actually have physiological, 相对于最优水平而言的心理基准水平
base level of where we are compared to the optimum. 让我来画个图
Let me illustrate. 这是所谓的最优激励水平
So there is what's called optimum level of arousal, 在认知学上说
cognitively speaking. 激励的最优水平
Optimum level of arousal. 这是 比如说是我们的最优激励水平
And this,let's say is our optimum level of arousal. 我们生来就在这附近 有些人高 有些人低
And we are all born somewhere around this,either above,below- 极少有人正好在这条线上
very few people are right on the line. 内向的人有更高的激励水平
Introverts have a higher level of arousal, 更高的先天激励水平
higher innate level of arousal. 这是内向的人
This is the introversion. 相对于最优水平而言
Extraverts have a lower level of arousal, 外向的人有较低的激励水平
compared to the optimum level. 现在我们都身体上 或者精神上
Now we all physically see,or emotionally, 认识上并身体上
cognitively and physically 寻求体验的最优激励水平
look for experiencing the optimum level of arousal 因为那是最方便的
because that's the most convenient. 那时候我们在最佳状态
That's when we are at our best. 那时候我们心情更愉快
That's when we enjoy ourselves more, 内向的人的天生自然状态
which is why introverts whose innate natural state 是高于最优激励水平的
is above the optimum level of arousal, 所以他们实际上需要降低刺激水平
actually need to reduce level of arousal. 所以他们喜欢自己单独呆着
So they enjoy spending time by themselves. 与之相反 外向的人有着较低的激励水平
In contrast,extraverts have a lower arousal level. 这个水平没有他们达到最优水平时那私愉快
And it's not as pleasant as when they get it to the optimum level 于是他们出门去参加派对 那里有很多刺激
So they go out to a party where there is a lot of arousal, 有很多事情发生
a lot of things happening, 有很多为了达到自己最优水平的人
a lot of people in order to get their optimum level of arousal, 这就是为什么普遍来说…
which is why generally... 酒精起什么作用?
What does alcohol do? 酒精降低我们的激励水平
Alcohol reduces our level of arousal, 这就是为什么内向的人常常需要
which is why introverts very often need a glass of wine 在他们跳舞前喝杯酒或喝瓶酒
or a bottle before they dance. 因为当着
Because to dance 其他人的面跳舞会刺激水平上升
while other people are watching increases level of arousal. 所以酒精的作用是降低他们的刺激水平
So what the alcohol does is reduce their level of arousal. 然后跳舞就容易接受了
And then dancing is comfortable and they are fine with it. 与之相反 外向的人需要咖啡
In contrast,many extraverts need coffee 咖啡是保持清醒的刺激物
which is a stimulant in order to stay awake. 因为咖啡让他们上升到自己的最优激励水平
Because the coffee gets them up to their optimum level of arousal 再一次 我给了你们一个梗概
Again,I'm giving you a sketch of- 再一次 自Issac后数十年里有很多
again there's a lot of research 关于内向和外向的研究
ever since Issac for decades about introversion and extraversion. 顺便说下 这不是意味着我们不能…
Now by the way this does not mean that we cannot act,- 用Brian Little的话说 我们的举止不能脱离本性
in the words of Brian Little,- we cannot act out of nature, 就是说一个内向的人可以举止像外向的人
meaning an introvert can act like an extravert. 我站在这里 我是个内向的人 顺便说下这是心…
Here I am- I'm an introvert and- by the way this is physio... 我们生来就是这个状态 这是天生的
We are born with this state.It's innate. 我生来就是内向的
So I was born an introvert. 但当我站在教室前
And yet when I'm standing in front of the class, 唱着优美的歌曲 我的行为像一个外向的人
and sing beautiful songs,I'm acting like an extravert. 但是当我们的举止脱离本性时
However the important thing while we can act out of nature 明白这样通常会让我们衰弱这点很重要
is to understand that very often this enervates us. 它会带走我们的精力
It takes away energy. 这对我们来说很难 因为我们在假装 所以如果我在这
It's difficult for us because we are acting so if I'm here, 当我上课时 我会变得更兴奋
when I teach,I go even higher- 离我的最优激励水平更远
even further from my optimum level of arousal. 这会消耗精力
And that takes away energy 这就是为什么内向的人在表现得像外向的人之后
which is why introverts after acting like an extravert 无论是参加派对还是讲课
whether it's at a party or in a lecture, 都需要Brian Little所说的恢复龛
need what Brian Little calls a restorative niche. 恢复龛 一个恢复精力的地方
A restorative niche- a place to restore. 在那个地方
And that would be a place 人们可以和人一对一相处
where they would spend time one on one with someone, 也可以给自己一点时间独处 恢复
or some hours of solitude,of recovery. 记住 这个问题不是压力
Remember,the problem is not stress. 这个问题不是压力
The problem is not stress. 而是我们没有恢复
The problem is when we don't have recovery. 内向的人需要恢复
And introverts need recovery. 有事是靠自己 有时需要一对一
Some time on their own.Some time one on one. 比如说我的生活 恢复的形式的坐办公室
So life for me,for example,form of recovery is office hours- 让我一连4个小时面对学生更容易
easy for me to meet students you know for 4 hours straight. 这是一种恢复的形式
It's a form of recovery. 如果我只是上课 只是站在听众前面
If I was only teaching,and only standing in front of audience, 那最终会导致过度工作 会导致我毫无生气
that would ultimately lead to over work and to me being lethargic 外向的人也是一样
Same with an extravert. 如果你是个外向的人
If you are an extravert, 有时你需要做点内向的人的事情
sometimes you have to do introverts' stuff. 比如说你需要为了考试学习
So for example you need to study for an exam. 你是可以和很多人一起学习备考
And yet it would be nice to study for an exam at the Cog, 但可能效果并没有那么好
but may be not that helpful. 所以你自己一个人或者和另一个人一起学习
So you are studying by yourself or with one person. 而在那之后你需要的就是一个恢复龛
And what do you need after that is a restorative niche, 因为对一个外向的人来说
because it's enervating for an extravert 远离其最优激励水平是消耗精力的
to be far from their optimum level of arousal. 你需要一个恢复龛
You need a restorative niche. 恢复龛在哪?
Where is that restorative niche? 我需要和朋友出去参加派对
I need to go out for a party with friends. 这对他们来说就是一个恢复龛
And that for them is a restorative niche. 所以再一次 认识你自己
So again,know thyself. 知道你自己人际关系的需求是什么
Know what your relationship needs are. 不是说你的行为不能脱离本性
Doesn't mean you cannot act out of the nature. 你可以
You can. 但同时你必须要有一个正式的恢复
But at the same time it must be able to have a formal recovery, 一个与你本性相对应的恢复龛
a restorative niche according to your first nature, 不管你是内向的还是外向的
being an introvert or an extravert. 简而言之 你需要的人际关系数量
To summarize,the number of relationships that you need that 取决于你个人的 独特的需要
would be best for you- depends on your personal,unique needs. 你想和别人在一起相处的时间
The number of hours you want to spend with other people 因人而异
differs for everyone. 这里无分好坏
There's no right or wrong here. 一些人喜欢每天和朋友相处10小时
Some people enjoy spending 10 hours a day with friends, 那些特别外向的人
you know more than extraverts; 其他人则喜欢一对一 亲密的时间
other people,one on one,intimate time, 每天就需要2到3小时
2-3 hours a day is what they need. 这里没有什么好或不好
There is no right or wrong here. 并不意味着你对别人的爱就冷淡了
Doesn't mean you love people any less. 也不意味着
Or neither does it mean that 你不需要亲密的关系如果你是前一种或者后一种的人
you don't need intimate relationships if you are one or the other 两种人都需要亲密的关系
Both need close intimate relationships- 和灵魂伴侣 情侣 家人 都可以
soul mates,romantic partners,family members- whatever it is. 都是一种需要
It's a need. David Myers说:"几乎没有什么能比
David Myers:"There are few stronger predictors of happiness 一段和好友之间亲密的 悉心培育的 公平的
than a close,nurturing,equitable,intimate, 亲近的 长达一生的相伴更能预言幸福了
lifelong companionship with one's best friend." 关于异性关系所做的研究要比
There's been a lot more research done 同性关系多
on opposite sex relationshipthan same sex relationship. 但是 过去几年 特别是经过
However,over the last few years,especially through 华盛顿大学John Gottman的研究工作
the work of John Gottman from the University of Washington, 他可以说是这一领域的领先专家
probably the leading researcher in this area. 他在同性关系上做了更多的研究
He's been doing much more work on single sex relationship. 他们的发现…
And what their finding- 非常相似的结果 但略有不同
some very similar results with some differences. 我们会讲讲这些有趣的…
And we'll get to some of those interesting- 因为它们是我们没见到过的不同
because they are informing differences. 可能今天不讲 但下节课会讲
Probably not today,but next time. 所以当我谈到关系时
So when I talk about the relationship, 我说的是关系
I'm talking about the relationship 而那位David Myers说的是长达一生的相伴
and that David Myers is talking about is companionship, 浪漫的关系
romantic relationship that is life-long. 同性或者异性
Same sex or opposite sex. 关于关系有趣的事情是
The interesting thing about relationships is that 每个人都能从中获益
everyone benefits from it. 但如我之前一次提到的那样 男人获益更多
But as I mentioned already once before,men benefit more. 为什么他们获益更多?
Why do they benefit more? 因为首先 通常
Because for the first time often, 男人有可以分享事情的人
men have someone they can share with, 而女人 通常 更可能…
whereas women have-more often,more likely- 和特定的女性朋友谈论特定的话题
have their girl friends whom they talk to about certain issues. 分享快乐和悲伤的女性朋友
They share their happiness as well as their sorrow with. 但是 两种性别的人不管是异性恋还是同性恋
However,both sexes in opposite and same sex relationships 都能从亲密的关系中获益
benefit from intimate relationships. 我来放一个前段的视频片段
Let me show you a quick video 关于什么是婚姻的
excerpt of a description of what marriage is all about. "人人都爱雷蒙德"的片段
[VIDEO: Clip of Everybody Loves Raymond] 这就是婚姻
Raymond: Look this is marriage. 你早上一睁眼 她在那
You wake up in the morning,and she's there. 你夜晚回家 她在那
You come home at night,and she's there. 你吃饭 她在那
You eat,she's there. 你…你睡觉 她在那
You--you go to sleep,there. 我知道这听起来很恐怖
And I know that sounds like a bad thing. 但是不是 不是
But it's not.It's not. 如果你… 如果你找到了合适的人
Not if it's the-- if it's the right person. 这样结婚就很好 很好
Then it's good.It's good. 真的真的很好
It's really,really good. 我想要一分钟时间来反驳
Frank: I would like a minute for rebuttal. 那么我们来看看各种关系
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: So let's look at relationships. 首先 我们来看看婚外恋
First of all,let's look at the state of affairs- 看看到底今天
as what's actually going on with relationship, 长期的关系出了什么问题
long term relationships today. 婚姻或是其他长期关系
Marriage or other. 我们看到可不是非常好看的景象
What we see is not a very pretty picture. 就婚姻而言
So when it comes to marriages, 如今三分之二的婚姻都以离婚收场
2/3 of marriages today end up in divorce. 这并不意味着剩下那三分之一就过得很好
This does not mean that the other third are thriving. 因为经常 经常
Because very often,very often, 人们在一起是因为责任感 习惯
people stay together out of a sense of duty,out of habit, 因为没得选了
because of a lack of alternative, 因为他们认为这就是他们的命运
because they think this is their lot in life. 现在 我当然不是要去论证
Now this- and I'm certainly not going to argue for the fact that 所有婚姻或关系都不应该破裂
there are no marriages or relationships that should be dissolved. 当然有
Of course there should be. 不是每一段关系都是合适的 我们常常会犯错
Not every relationship is right and we often make mistake. 但我要表达的是
But what I am gonna,the argument that 很多结束了的关系
I am going to make is that many of the relationships that end, 或者许多变成
or many of the relationships 用梭罗的话说"安静的绝望"的关系
that reach a state in the words of Thoreau,"quiet desperation", 毫无生气 成了一种惯性
of just being there,just sort of an inertia. 许多这样的关系
Many of these relationships 要么不应该终结 要么实际上可以很好
either should not have ended or can actually thrive. 然而问题是
The problem though is that 我们看到 当然有三分之二的人以离婚收场
we see certainly with the two thirds who end up in divorce, 但还有三分之一的人 常常
but also with the other third very often 无法长期维持爱情
there's a failure to sustain love over time. 我还不知道在婚礼上
I don't know anyone who has gone to the wedding ceremony 或者在别的结婚仪式上
or exchanged vows in another setting. 会有哪对夫妇说
I don't know any couple who did that and say, "这只是暂时的 我们将…你懂的
"well,this is just temporary.We are going to do it for you know, 携手2年 直到死亡把我们分开 但也不见得"
2 years until death do us part,but not really." 你知道当人们步入一段关系中时
You know when people go into a relationship, 他们的想法 他们的希望
their thought,their hopes 是延续他们在关系最初时
is to continue the exact same love and passion 拥有的那份爱与热情
that they have at the beginning of the relationship. 这就是关系如何开始的 这是爱的承诺
This is how relationships start.This is the promise of love. 但是通常 很显然
And yet more often than not,evidently things don't turn out 事与愿违
as we expected them to have turned out. 一个主要原因
One of the main reasons for it,and one of the reasons that 一个被许多性治疗师和心理学家引用的原因
is cited by numerous sex therapists or psychologists- 再一次 你不需要研究它
again you don't need to research for that, 因为这是如此地不证自明
because it's so self-evident. 一个原因是因为爱情
One of the reasons is because love, 特别是欲望和热情会随着时间磨灭
and especially lust and passion wears over time. 因为我们知道新鲜事物产生更高的激励水平
Because we know that novelty produces higher levels of arousal, 或者用康奈尔大学心理学家Daryl Bem的话说
or in the words of Daryl Bem from Cornell University,psychologist "新奇的总是引人性致的"
"the exotic is erotic." 如果是新鲜事物 它总是更有趣 更让人着迷
If it's new,it's more interesting,more fascinating. 这就解释了为什么这么多关系都破裂了
And this explains why so many relationships end. 但问题是…这必然是我们本性的一部分吗?
The question though is- is that necessarily part of our nature? 是也不是
And the answer is yes and no. 是
Yes, 新奇的事物更能刺激我们 我们适应变化
it's necessarily part of our nature that novelty excites us more, 这必然是我们本性的一部分
that we adapt to what happens. 记住 我们是会改变的探测者
Remember we are change detectors. 当新事物出现时
We become much more aroused, 我们变得更加受激励 不论是从认知 心理学
whether it's cognitively,psychologically,or physically, 还是身体 生理学上说
physiologically when there's something new. 我们随着时间变化适应着 不论好与坏
And we adapt over time it for good and ill. 所以如果不是以好结果为目标的事件
Now it would be wonderful 如果不是找情侣这样的积极的经历
if that wasn't the case for positive events, 这种能力是很好的
for positive experiences such as finding a romantic partner. 可惜不是
But it isn't. 问题是 我们该怎么办?
The question is- what do we do with it? 在我们开始讲"我们怎么办"之前
Let me first share with you 我先跟你们分享
before we get to "what do we do with it"- 一个我做的研究
let me share with you a study that I ran. 希望它能尽快发表在
Hopefully it would be published 一个有名的学术期刊上
in a respectable academic journal soon. 但我研究的问题 是个非常重要的问题
But my research question- it's a very important one- 就是谁是世界上最帅的男人和最靓的女人?
was who is the hottest woman and the hottest man in the world? 说得科学点 谁是商场里最美的人?
Or scientifically put,who is the fairest of the mall? 我把这个问题提给了我一个大二的班
And I posed this question to my sophomore class, 我当时教一个大二班的心理学
when I taught a sophomore tutorial in psychology. 我们有了很长时间的辩论
And we had a long debate about it. 但最后 我们得到一个科学的结论
But at the end,we came up with scientific results. 没有看过PPT的同学告诉我
So those of you who don't have the powerpoints in front of you, 你们认为谁被选为了最美的男人?
who do you think is chosen as the hottest male? 你得了A
[Inaudible.Laugh]You get an A. 还有人想要A吗?不
Anyone else wants an A? No. 谁被选为了世上最美的男人?
Who was chosen as the hottest male in the world? 比尔·克林顿?不是
Bill Clinton? No. 谁?乔治·克鲁尼?很接近但还不对
Who? George Clooney? Close but no cigar. (布拉德·皮特!) 答对了
(Brad Pitt!) You got it. 这张图是他站在特洛伊城前
Here is standing right outside Troy, 告诉海伦他去去就来
telling Helen that he'll be right over. 谁是这世上被大二班科学地证明是
Who is the hottest female in the world 最美的女人?
as scientific proven by the sophomore tutorial? 你!对!另一个A
You! Right! Another A. 她是谁?(安吉丽娜·朱莉) 安吉丽娜·朱莉?不是
Who was she? (Angelina Jolie.) Angelina Jolie? No. (哈莉·贝瑞)哈莉·贝瑞
(Halle Berry.) Halle Berry. 这张图是她跟阿德里安·布罗迪说
Here she is telling Adrien Brody that 他要是再敢接近她一步 她就杀了他
she'll kill him if he comes step closer to her. 现在想象一下 想象一下
Now imagine this.Imagine this. 想象你找到了你的布拉德·皮特或者哈莉·贝瑞
Imagine that you find your Brad Pitt or Halle Berry- 你理想中的男人或女人
your ideal man or woman. 他们不仅美得冒泡
Not only are they sizzling hot, 而且特别感性 聪明
but they are also extremely sensitive,wise, 老成 圣洁 慷慨 仁慈
way beyond their years,saintly,generous,benevolent, 一部电影挣1000万美元
make 10 million dollars a movie. 而且最重要的是
And most importantly, 他们爱你绝不少于你爱他们
they love you just as much,if not more than you love them. 想象一下如果这发生了的话
Just imagine if that happens. 你遇到了你的布拉德·皮特或者任何一位你的致命情人
And you meet your Brad Pitt or whoever your Achilles heel is. 或者你遇到了哈莉·贝瑞或者女超人或者女蜘蛛侠
Or you meet Halle Berry or superwoman or spiderwoman, 或其他真命天女 想象一下
whomever it is for you.Imagine that. 你看到他们 你跟他们讲话
And you see them.You talk to them. 然后你爱上了他们 他们爱上了你
And you fall in love; and they fall in love with you. 然后你们结婚了
And you get married. 你婚后的第一晚 或者婚前第一晚
And the first night after your marriage- or before. 你们选
That's your choice. 你回到家
You get home. 没有盔甲会阻挡你
No armour is going to stop you. 没有枪会把你赶走
No gun is going to drive you away. 你们成小时 成天 成周 成月地激情不休
You make passionate love for hours and days and weeks and months. 你甚至不来上幸福课
You don't even turn up for positive psychology. 感觉太棒了
It's so good. 想象一下 想象一下
Imagine that.Just imagine. 然后当然银幕落下
And then of course the screen comes down, 你们永远幸福快乐精力充沛地生活在一起
and you live happily and lustily ever after. 对吗?也许
Right? Maybe. 现在想象一下 相爱5年
Now imagine this.Five years into the relationship. 和这样一个感性 智慧 性感 富有的人
With this amazing sensitive,wise,hot,wealthy person. 相爱5年
Five years into the relationship. 你参加了一个心理学实验
You take part in a psychological experiment. 这个实验是
And here is the experiment. 他们把你挂在各种各样电极上
They hook you up to all these electrodes, 各种各样生理学的 认知学的测量工具上
to all these physiological,cognitive measurements. 然后他们测量你的生理兴奋水平
And they measure your level of physiological arousal. 然后你的布拉德·皮特或者哈莉·贝瑞
And then your Brad Pitt or Halle Berry 或者谁走进了这个房间
or whoever it is walk into the room 看看你的生理兴奋水平如何
and they see how physically aroused you become. 然后他们离开
And then they leave. 再然后另一个有适当魅力的人
And then someone else,who is moderately attractive- you know, 不是布拉德·皮特和哈莉·贝瑞
no Brad Pitt and Halle Berry, 但是个有相当魅力的人走进这个房间
but someone who is moderately attractive walks into the room. 你什么时候身体上 本能上
When would you become more physically,instinctually- 你什么时候身体上更兴奋?
when would you become more physically aroused? 总得来说 不是总是发生
In general- does not always happen- 但大多数情况是
but overwhelming majority of times. 你会在那个生人进来时
You'll become more physically aroused 身体上更兴奋
when the new person comes in. 为什么?因为新奇的总是引人性致的
Why? Because the exotic is erotic. 因为新鲜的事物有刺激
Because novelty excites. 现在我们在这笑
Now you know we laugh about this, 其实在一定程度上也解释了这个统计数据
but it actually to some extent explains this statistics, 这就是为什么这么多关系破裂了
which is why so many relationships go soar 尽管它们一开始抱着最美好的意愿
when they start off with the best of intentions, 最真诚的意愿 但结果它们深陷泥潭
with the most honest intentions,and yet they flounder. 这是部分的原因
And this is the part of the reason why. 所以这是不是个坏消息?不尽然
So is this bad news? Not necessarily. 它不坏也不好 就是这样
It's not bad or good.It is. 就像我们说万有引力定律
It's like talking about the law of gravity. 万有引力定律 不好吗?不 没什么不好
The law of gravity- bad? No.It's not bad. 好吗?也没什么好的 它就是这样而已
It's good? It's not good either.It simply is. 就像我们说痛苦情绪 它们不好吗?不
So like we talked about painful emotions- are they bad? No. 它们好吗?不 它们只是如此
Are they good? No.They simply are. 如果你想过幸福的生活
And if you want to lead a happy life, 如果我们想有良好健康的关系
if we want to have a thriving healthy relationship, 我们需要做的是首先接受本性
what we need to do is first and foremost accept nature. 这不是什么好或坏消息
It's not good or bad news; 只是真实的消息或者不是消息 因为这是我们都知道的
it's simply real news or not news because again we all know this. 问题是我们要怎么做?
And the question is what do we do with it? 我们要怎么遵循本性才能驾驭它?
How do we obey nature so that we can command it? 我今节课和下次课要讲的
And what I'm gonna talk about today 是我们该如何对待关系
and even more so next time is how we can take relationships, 鉴于新鲜事物带来兴奋的事实
given the fact that novelty excites,given the fact that 鉴于生理兴奋水平会升高的事实
on the physiological level the arousal will be higher- 顺便说一下这对男女一样适用
by the way that applies for men and women. 当新人出现时兴奋会升高
The excitement will be higher when there's a new person. 鉴于此
Given all that, 我们怎样才能创造一个活跃 进步
how can we create relationships that thrive,that soar, 超过零点到达幸福的关系
that go way beyond the zero to the positive. 这是可能的
And it's possible. 幸福心理学可以帮助我们做到
And positive psychology can help us do it. 在接受现实前的第一步是
The first step before accepting reality 理解真爱的真正含义
is understanding what true love really means. 因为许多人 许多人会问这样一个问题
Because many people,many people ask this question: 真爱在现实中存在吗?
does it even exist in reality? 是的 它存在于小说中 存在于电影里
So yeah it exists in fiction; it exists in movies. 但这些电影荧幕上的角色
But you know these characters on the movie screen 实际上是比生活中的夸张了
are literally larger than life. 他们说着完美的台词 他们创造着完美的爱情
They deliver perfect lines; they make perfect love. 我要怎么才能做到
How am I going to be able to do that? And 我要怎么才能去经历他们所经历的?
in fact how am I going to experience what they are experiencing? 真爱真的存在吗?
Does true love really exist? 我能做到拥有
Because can I ever live up to the kind of the relationship 英格丽·褒曼和亨弗莱·鲍嘉那样的爱情吗?
that Ingrid Bergman and Humphrey Bogart had? 我能到达4万英尺的高度吗?
Can I reach the heights of 40000 feet? 我能拥有梅格·瑞恩和汤姆·汉克斯
Can I have the same mystical connection 那样的心灵感应吗?
as Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks had? 我会不会有可能和英国首相一夜风流?
And will I ever be able to sleep with the British Prime Minister? 或者和休·格兰特?可能吗?会是真的吗?
Or Hugh Grant? Is it possible? Is it real? 你知道自助书帮不了多少
And you know self-help books don't help much. 我最爱的自助书作者之一 Leo Buscaglia
One of my actual favorite self-help writers,Leo Buscaglia- 他也是南加大的教授
who's also a professor at University of Southern California. 非常棒的作者
Wonderful writer. 富于同情心的热情演讲者 帮助了我很多
Compassionate passionate speaker- helped me a lot. 这是我读的第一本
It was the first self-help book that I read- 关于生活 爱情和学习的自助书
was about living,loving and learning. 关于爱情和关系他如是写道
Here is what he writes about love and relationships: "完美的爱情确实是稀有 因为作为一个爱人
"Perfect love is rare indeed -for to be a lover will require 需要你一直拥有智者的敏锐
that you continually have the subtlety of the very wise, 儿童的灵活性 艺术家的感性
the flexibility of the child,the sensitivity of the artist, 哲学家的领悟
the understanding of the philosopher, 圣人的包容
the acceptance of the saint, 学者的宽容和笃定者的刚毅"
the tolerance of the scholar and the fortitude of the certain." 多美的文字
What a beautiful passage. 如此美 如此严苛的条件
So beautiful and so detrimental. 谁能做到这些?有谁吗?
Who can live up to this? Anyone? 你瞧 完美的爱情是不存在的
You see there is no perfect love. 去期望自己 自己的情侣
To expect this of myself,of my partner, 自己的关系这么完美 注定会失败
of our relationship is to set us up for failure. 我不希望Tammy对她的伴侣有这样的期望
I would not want Tammy to expect this in her partner. 因为我能向你们保证我会辜负她的
Because I can guarantee you I would fail her. 根据这些标准我辜负了她
I have failed her,according to the standards. 我对她也是一样 这是不可能的 是不现实的
As she me.It's impossible.It's unrealistic. 当我们的期望高于生活时
And we set ourselves up for failure 当我们的期望是完美的台词 或完美的爱情时
when our expectations are larger than life. 我们就在为自己的失败做着准备
When our expectations are perfect lines,or perfect love. 但我们读到的都是完美
And yet this is what we read about. 我们看到的都是完美
This is what we see. 我们开始把这些
And we begin to internalize this- 这条我们关系的直线
this straight line of our relationship, 完美又不真实
which is perfect and unreal. 但是尽管完美的爱情不存在 真爱却存在
But while perfect love doesn't exist,true love does. 真爱存在于不完美的人中
True love exists between imperfect humans. 什么是真爱?
What is true love? 幸福心理学又怎么帮你识别它?
How can positive psychology help us identify it? 首先 问这一领域里
First,by asking different questions 最经常被问及的问题
that have been mostly been asked in this area. 其次 不仅关注什么起了作用
Second,by focusing not just on what works, 还要关注什么在这些少数真的很好
but on what works best on the few relationship 没有破裂 没有走到尽头的 没有到达安静的绝望状态
that really thrive that have not dissolved,that have not ended, 或者弗洛伊德所说的"惬意的麻木"的
that are not just here in a state of quiet desperate, 毫无生气的关系中
or as Pink Floyd said,just "comfortably numb"- 什么起了最大的作用
but relationships that are here. 让我们从他们身上学学 向最佳情侣学学
Let's learn from them.Let's learn from the tip of the stem. 所以我们需要做的第一件事就是重新组织一下这个问题
So the first thing that we need to do is reframe the question. 还记得我们在讲冒险的青春时也是这么做的
Remember we did the exact same thing with at risk youth. 我们对那些快乐 健康 成功的人
We did the exact same thing 也是这么做的
with people who are happy,healthy and successful. 讲几何形状时我们也是这么做的
We did the same thing when it came to the geometric shapes. 因为问题引起了探索
Because questions start a quest. 问题定义了现实
And questions define reality. 传统心理学问过
And traditional psychology has asked- 夫妻咨询师 这一领域内的研究者问过
couple's counselors,researchers in the area have asked- 为什么这么多长期的关系失败了?
why do so many long term relationships fail? 为什么这么多人在一起一年两年或者5年之后
Why do so many people after a year or two or five years together 结束了他们的关系?
end their relationship? 为什么许多人
Why is that many people 在一起后就不再幸福了?
who do stay together are no longer thriving? 他们得到的答案之一就是
And one of the answers that 因为新鲜事物刺激我们
they got was because novelty arouses us. 因为寻求刺激是人类本性的一部分
Because it's part of human nature to seek excitement. 新奇的是引人性致的
The erotic is the exotic. 那是一个答案 并且是个正确的答案
That's one of the answers and again it's a true answer; 也是一个我们要考虑的重要因素
it's an important thing to take into consideration. 这是现实的一部分 不管我们喜欢或不喜欢
It's part of the reality whether we like it or not. 但那个问题还不够
But that question is not enough- 就像当我们问风险人群时
just like the similar question was not enough 或者当我问你们几何形状时
when we asked about at risk population, 类似的问题一样并不足够
or when I asked you about the geometric shapes. 当我们只问这个问题时
And when we only ask this question, 我们实际上忽略了一部分现实
we quite literally miss a part of reality 非常重要的一部分现实
and a very important part of reality- 这一部分现实能引导持续 良好
a part of reality can lead to lasting,thriving, 激情的关系
passionate relationships. 幸福心理学所问的问题是
And the question that positive psychology asks is "什么让一些关系发展良好
"what makes some relationships thrive 并随着时间越来越好?"
and grow stronger over time?" 因为这样的关系确实存在
Because there are such relationships. 我有幸看到了这样的关系
You know I was fortunate to see a relationship 我跟你们讲过的我祖母和
like that between my grandmother 我祖父之间的关系
whom I told you about and my grandfather. 他们结婚53年
They were married for 53 years. 我们有一些拍他们一起的照片
The pictures that we have of them,and the way they were together 在照片里 我祖母 她是家里的女家长
is that my grandmother who was the matriarch of the family- 非常强势的女人 一直也非常幽默
you know a very,very powerful woman,always,also very humorous- 她坐下来
was of her sitting down 我祖父挨着她 把他的手搭在她肩头
and my grandfather next to her with his hand on her shoulder, 看着她
just looking at her. 就像16岁相爱的小年青
Just like a 16 year old in love. 他们结婚53年
They were married for 53 years. 当然也有起起落落
Of course with their ups and downs 有过纷争和失望
and disagreements and disappointments. 他们也不完美
They are not perfect either. 但他们有一段发展良好的关系 充满激情的关系
But they had a thriving relationship,passionate relationship. 这些关系有什么特别?什么让它们如此成功?
What is about these relationships? What makes them successful? 重要的问题是
And the important question is "我们能学到什么并应用到我们的关系里
"what can we learn and apply to our relationships, 如果我们想
if what we are interested in 维持一段激情的关系?"
is a long term passionate relationship?" 所以让我们学习那些成功的范例
So let's learn from what works. 不只是学习成功的关系
Let's learn not just from what works, 还要学习最好的 我们能研究并学习的
but let's learn from what works best- the best relationships that 最好的关系
we can look at and study and learn from. 下面是一些我们能从
Here are some of the lessons that 这些关系上学到的东西
we can learn from these relationships. 我要从研究者们那借鉴
And I'm going to draw on to researchers. 首先是John Gottman 我之前提到过的
First,John Gottman whom I mentioned before. 然后是David Schnarch
And the second- David Schnarch. David Schnarch和我之前提到的John Gottman
David Schnarch as well as John Gottman as I mentioned earlier 在异性关系和同性关系方面
have done research, a very good research 做了一个非常好的研究
on opposite as well as same sex relationships. 下面是一些我会讲到的他们的发现
Here are some of the things that they find I will talk about. "首先 当我想出怎么预测离婚时
"At first,when I figured out how to predict divorce, 我以为我找到了拯救婚姻的钥匙
I thought I had found the key to saving marriages. 但和我之前的许多专家一样 我错了
But like so many experts before me,I was wrong. 我没能破解拯救婚姻的密码
I was not able to crack the code to saving marriages 直到我开始分析在幸福的婚姻里什么是对的"
until I started to analyze what went right in happy marriages." 他如是写道 如果我没记错的话 是在…1999年
He wrote this,if I'm not mistaking,in 19...Sorry 1999. 2001年的时候他的研究更进了一步
And 2001 he took a step further 我们下周会讲到这个研究
and we'll see next week in the research 他研究了同性关系
where he studied same sex relationships 他学到的东西多于
and learned even more things than he studied 他研究异性关系促进因素时所学到的
what goes well in opposite sex relationships. 总之关键是要去研究成功的关系
But the key was to study successful relationship, 不管这个关系是什么 不管它的本质是什么
whatever the relationship was,whatever its nature was. 当他研究了这些 一切就大为不同了
And when he studied those,that make all the difference. 他可以预测
He could predict, 他可以以94%的准确度预测离婚
he can predict divorce with an accuracy level of 94 percent. 94% 那是个社会科学领域前所未闻的数字
94 percent.That's an unheard figure in social sciences. 非常卓越 他可以做到
Quite remarkable.And he was able to do it. 但这没能帮他创造更好的长期关系
But it didn't help him create better long term relationship. 只有当他开始问这个问题
It was only when he started to ask this question- "什么让这些关系发展良好
"what makes some relationships thrive 就是那时他继续研究
That's when he went ahead 并且能为更好的关系提供挽救方法
and was able to prescribe better relationships. 我要借鉴的第二个人是David Schnarch
The second person that I will draw on is David Schnarch. 下面是他在他那本非常棒的书
And here is what he says in his wonderful book, 《激情婚姻》中写道的
"Passionate Marriage". "橘皮组织和性潜能是高度联系的"
"Cellulite and sexual potential are highly correlated." 他研究最成功的关系的结果表明
what he showed in his research studying the best relationships is 他们多年来享受一起的时光
that not only do they enjoy spending time together over the years 而且他们这辈子最棒的性爱
but the best sex that they have in their lives doesn't come 并不是在他们18岁或25岁或35岁时
when they are 18 or 25 or 35. 事实上是在50多岁和60多岁时
It actually is for 50 and 60 years olds. 所以你们还有很多可以期望的
So you have a lot to look forward to. 这不是说
Now that does not mean, 18岁时的性爱就不好了
that does not mean it can't be great at 18. 只是在50和60多岁时会更好
It can even be greater at 50 and 60. 这就是他在他研究成功关系时发现的
That's what he showed in his research of thriving relationships. 但这样的关系只占少数
Now these are not the majority of the relationships, 很可惜
unfortunately. 因为现今大部分人到了50岁和60岁的年纪时
Because most people today by the age of 50 and 60, 他们已经到了第2段或第3段婚姻
they are into their second or third marriage 或者长期关系中了
or long term relationship. 但常常是越到后面才越精彩
However very often it is later on that it becomes better. 就是那时生理兴奋水平
And that's when it's devious away, 偏离 远离了合适的水平
goes away from the just physiological level of arousal, 据说可能在男人24岁 女人35岁时
which may be stronger at the age of 24 they say for men 更为强烈
and 35 for women. 我不知道他们从哪得到这些数据的
And I mean I don't where did they get these numbers from. 但我们实际上有潜在可能达到高峰 注意这个用词
But we actually peak potentially- note the word here- 我们有潜在可能在50多岁和60多岁时到达高峰
potentially we peak in our 50s and 60s. 为什么?我们之后会理解
And why? We'll understand later. 下面是我们下次课
So here are the things that 将要讨论的内容
we are going to talk about in the next class. 我们将分析增长的统计数据
We are going to engage in growing statistic. 我们将研究最好的关系
We are going to look at the best relationships, 就像我们研究最好的老师Marva Collins一样
just like we looked at the best teacher Marva Collins; 就像我们研究最好的冥想者Lama Oser等人一样
just like we looked at the best meditators,Lama Oser and others. 我们将研究最好的关系
We are going to look at the best relationships 并提问我们能从中学到什么并应用到自己的生活中
and ask what can we learn from it and apply to our lives. 再讲一分钟 一分钟
One minute.One minute. 我们将讨论4个不同的话题
And we are gonna talk about four different topics. 第一个 维持恋情需要努力
First- that relationship is about hard work. 如果你想在工作上有好的发展 你需要努力工作
If you want to thrive at work,you need to work hard; 如果你想在关系上有良好发展 你需要投资
if you want to thrive in a relationship,you need to invest. 第二 我们会讲到怎样投资
Second- and we'll talk about how to invest. 最好的关系
That the best relationships 创造了高水平的亲密关系
are ones that create high levels of intimacy 让彼此之间有更深层次的了解
that get to know one another in a deeper level. 这些是良好的关系
And these are the relationships that thrive. 这些是保持激情的关系
These are the relationships that also maintain passion 并且随着时间过去 感情升温
and enhance passion 5,10,and 50 years hence; 最好的关系并不能
the best relationships are not relationships 免于冲突
that are devoid of conflict- 我们会讲到其涵义及其状态
and we'll talk about what that means and what that looks like. 最后我们在上幸福心理学的课
And finally we are in a positive psychology class. 这是关于欣赏积极事物的课
It is about appreciating the positive. 因为当我们欣赏好的事物时 好的事物会青睐
Because when we appreciate the good,the good appreciates, 我们及他人
whether in ourselves or in others. 我们周四再见
See you on Thursday. 掌声
[Applause] 



 Chapter 18: 如何让爱情天长地久






 Chapter 19: 幸福与幽默


早上好 很高兴能给大家讲课
Shawn Achor:Good morning.I'm so excited to be here. Tal走了 所以今天早上我来代课
Tal is gone,which means that this morning I am the teacher 给大家上"黑魔法防御术"
for the defense against the dark arts, 我很肯定 在这种情况下
which I'm pretty sure 我可以套用美剧"办公室"里Dwight说的一句话
makes me just as Dwight would say in The Office, 我是幸福课的助理教授
the assistant professor of positive psychology instead of 而不只是幸福课教授的助理
merely the assistant to the professor of positive psychology. 很多人会叫我宿舍长TF Shawn 或者Shawn
Many of you know me as head TF Shawn,or just Shawn, 或者Kirkland的Imzar 或者幸福先生
or the Imzar of Kirkland House,or Mr.Positivity, 也有人叫我 那个像蹩脚罗马战神的家伙
or the guy who looks like a shizzle Roman god of War. 但你们很多人都不知道
But what many of you may not know is that 我也有温和的一面
I have a softer side too. 小时候
When I was little, 我给我妹妹的手臂弄了三处骨折
I broke my sister's arms in 3 different places. 我们在玩打仗 我们在客厅里到处跑
We were playing war and we were running around the living room, 像士兵一样 从坐垫上跳过去
jumping over cushions as soldiers do. 打着打着 就像我后来…
And at one point of this conflict,as my report 写给我父母的检讨说的那样
which I filed to my parents later on clearly indicated that 我看到眼镜蛇指挥官乱枪扫射我妹妹
I saw Cobra Commander takes a snap shot at my sister, 于是我不顾自己的安危
with absolutely no regard for my own safety, 我转过身 向我妹妹直冲过去
I reversed direction,dove head first into my sister, 推着她躲开那些射向我们的隐形子弹
pushing her all the way out of the oncoming invisible bullet 一直把她推到砖墙边
and into a brick wall. 这时我爸爸走进客厅
When my dad came into the room, 我站在她身边 说"我是英雄 我救了她"
I was standing above her,saying,"I'm a hero! I saved her!" 我真的成英雄了吗?
Now does this make me a hero? 没有 这样算不上英雄
No.This doesn't make me... 你知道真正的英雄是谁?
You know who the real heroes are? 真正的英雄是那些每天醒过来
The real heroes are the people that wake up every day, 穿上平凡的衣服 上平凡的班
put on their ordinary clothes,go into their ordinary job, 接到市长的求助电话
get a distress call from the mayor, 穿上制服去抗击罪恶
put on their costume and go and fight crime. 这些才是真正的英雄
Those are the real heroes. 你知道谁是英雄吗? 电视剧"英雄"里的Hiro
You know who's the hero? Hiro from the Heroes. 你知道这句话从哪里来吗?
Do you know where this is from? "办公室" 很好
(Student: The Office!) The Office.Good. 我们有一个同学看喜剧 很好 谢谢
We have one person that watches comedy.Good.Thank you. 我之所以跟你们说这个故事 是因为那天下午
I tell you the story because later that afternoon, 我妹妹和我 在我们去了急诊室回来后
my sister and I were,after we went to the emergency room, 我们在双层床上铺玩 我们又玩打仗了
we were playing on top of my bunk bed,and we were playing war. 我们还没学到教训
We were slow learners. 这一仗是我的特种部队 对抗她的小马
And this time it was my G.I.Joe against her my little ponies. 突然在这场地缘政治冲突中
And in the midst of acting of this geopolitical conflict, 我妹妹玩得很兴奋 往床外靠得太出了
my sister got really excited and leaned too far back on the bed. 结果
As a result, 她突然从上铺上消失了
she suddenly disappeared of the back of top of the bunk bed. 我往双层床外一看 "怎么今天这么倒霉"
I looked over the side of the bunk bed,going,"not today." 我看到我妹妹躺在地板上…
And I saw my sister there lying on the floor with her... 她着地时 用手和膝盖痛苦地撑在地板上
She landed painfully on her hands and knees on the floor. 我看到她在痛苦 折磨
And I saw this wail of suffering and pain 和不公中 正要大声哭出来
and injustice about to erupt out of my sister's mouth. 我父母已经交代过我
Now my parents have charged me 要和我妹妹玩得尽量安全 安静
with playing as safely and as quietly as possible with my sister, 因为我刚刚弄断了她的手臂
seeing how I just broke her arm. 他们会怪谁
And who are they gonna blame 如果那天再出事的是我妹妹
if something happens to my sister again later on that day 而不是他们最爱的那个孩子
than the child that they love most, 那个他们希望长大后能当捉鬼敢死队员的孩子
the one who they wanted to grow up to be a Ghostbuster, 那个弄断她手臂的孩子?当然是我
the one who also broke her arm? Me. 所以我说了
So I did the only thing 我那个抓狂的7年级学生脑袋能想到的唯一一句话
my frantic 7 year old brain can think to do, 我说"Amy 先别哭 你看到你刚才怎么着地的吗?
and I said,"Amy,Amy,wait! Wait! Did you see how you landed? 没有人类能那样着地 你是独角兽"
No human lands like that.You are a unicorn." 当然这是骗她的
Now this was absolutely cheating, 因为我知道在这个世界上
if I knew there was nothing in the world 我妹妹最想要的就是让全世界的人都明白
my sister wanted more than for the rest of the world to realize 她其实是一头独角兽
that she was in fact a unicorn. 你可以从我妹妹的脸上看到她内心的挣扎
And you can see on my sister's face this conflict as her brain 她的大脑想把精力用来关注她刚刚
is tempted to devote resources to contemplating her new, 带着骨折的手臂从双层床上掉下去而受到的
contemplating her pain and suffering and injustice 痛苦 折磨 和不公 但在另一方面
as she fell off her bed with a broken arm; or on the other side, 她的大脑又想把精力用来看看这个世界
devoting resources to viewing the world 关注她的新身份:一头独角兽
and contemplating her new found identity as a unicorn. 后者胜出了 我妹妹脸上露出一个微笑
And the latter won out and a smile spread across my sister's face 她大笑起来 爬回双层床上
She laughed and she scrambled back on the bunk bed 带着一头小独角兽的优雅
with all the grace of a baby unicorn. 我们从中发现
Now what we realized is that 5到7岁这个脆弱的年龄
this tender age of just 7 and 5 years old with something 带有一些特征
that is going to be the heart 这些特征将会成为幸福心理学革命的核心
as the vanguard of the positive psychology revolution 这个我们已经讲过了
that we've been talking about, 我们讲过我们的大脑就像一个单一处理器
about how our brain is basically a single processor, 能够有意识地选择把精力放在
capable of consciously choosing to devote resources 痛苦和折磨上 或者把精力用来
either to the pain and suffering on one side, 用乐观
or viewing the world 和正念的眼光 来看这个世界
that lens of something like optimism or mindfulness. 所以我觉得幽默也正是这样
So too I think humor is exactly in this the facet. 我认为幽默本身就是一种选择
I think that humor itself is the option, 有意地去选择 怎样来看待世界
the mindful option of choosing between viewing the world 是用痛苦 乐观…
through the lens of being,of suffering,of optimism- 是痛苦 不是乐观 用痛苦 折磨 不公的眼光来看这个世界
suffering,not optimism,suffering,of pain,of injustice, 还是用一种
or viewing the world 适应性的强有力的眼光来看
through the lens of something of adaptive and powerful. 这个其实是我今天新买的
So today I actually bought a new one of these 因为旧的那个用不了
cause the other one didn't work. 因为我没有打开电源
Because I didn't turn on the power. 今天我把幽默定义为一种正念的眼光
So I defined humor today as a mindful lens, 通过幽默 我们可以用
through which we can view the world 正念的眼光看待世界
as a way of mindfully perceiving the world, 就像乐观主义那样
analogous to optimism, 这时一个人会提高
where an individual heightens awareness 对一种情况的各种可能的意识
of potentials within a situation. 今天我们会讲
Today we are going to talk about 对幸福的很多种不同的定义
a lot of different definitions of happiness 以及我们看待幸福的不同角度
and different ways that we can perceive of it 及其对我们的影响
and the effects upon all of us. 在讲之前 我想说说
But before we do so,I wanna talk a little bit 我们为什么要讲这些
about why we are doing this in the first place. 首先 Tal知道他今天不能来上课
First of all,Tal knew that he's going to be away today. 他三月时告诉过我很多次 他没办法
He told me repeatedly in March that there's no way 星期二下午4点20分以后上课
he's going to teach during the Tuesday after 420 which I just, 我想他的意思是因为逾越节的关系
I assume he meant because of the Passover. 所以我同意上一节关于幽默的课 因为我觉得
And so I agreed to give a talk on humor because it seems that 它能把这门课布置的各种阅读资料
it seams through the proverbial cracks of the assigned readings 以及课程大纲 很好地衔接起来
and syllabus for this course. 如果你不知道这门课有布置阅读
If you are unaware that there are assigned readings 和课程大纲的话
and a syllabus for this course, 下课后来找我
you talk to me after class. 所以我很肯定
So I'm sure that Tal这周和上周末都不会来学校
Tal was said to not be here this week and last weekend, 因为他很想去看"武当派"乐队
cause he missed to see the Wu-Tang Clan Gavin Degraw终于让它团聚了
and Gavin Degraw reunited at last. 你们看到昨天Crimson的文章吗
Did you guys see the Crimson article from yesterday 讲武当派的一个成员
that described how one of the members of Wu-Tang Clan, 一个不知名的武当派成员 在音乐会上
an unidentified member of Wu-Tang Clan held out his microphone 拿出他的麦克风 让观众们
at one point during the concert for the rest of the audience to, 让他们帮他唱完歌词
just infer them to do the lyrics,to finish the lyrics for him. 结果全场鸦雀无声
And what he was met was a stony stone silence. 他见状说
He responded, "看来你们都没有自己以为的那么聪明"
"well I guess you guys aren't as smart as you thought you were." 当一个不知名的武当派成员
You know you hit the rock bottom 嘲笑你时 你就知道你跌到谷底了
when an unidentified member of Wu-Tang Clan is making fun of you. 我今天很高兴来上课 这是有几个原因的
So I'm excited about being here today for several reasons. 首先 我认为幽默
First of all,I think humor 是我们将要讲到的幸福心理学
is one of the most important part of the positive psychology 最重要的一部分 因为
that we'll be talk about,because 它在我们说的每件事上都占了重要地位
it matters at every single level of things that we describe. 如果大家了解我的话 大家应该知道我本科在哈佛读
If you know me,you'll know that I went here as an undergraduate- 我学英语和宗教 我当时上神学院
I studied English and religion,went to the Divinity School 学习基督教和佛教伦理
when I studied Christian and Buddhist Ethics. 现在我转学心理学
And now I moved to study psychology 还在Kirkland宿舍外23号滩
and running a positive psychology 开了一间幸福心理咨询公司
consulting firm out of Kirkland beach 23. 我还是Kirkland宿舍的校内指导员 传奇人物
And I'm also the sort of intramural tutor/legends/national hero 和国家英雄
in Kirkland house. 我是重要人物
I'm very important.I'm very important. 我有很多皮订书
I've many leather bound books 我的房间一股红木家具的味道 很像有钱人
and my room smells a rich mahogany. 看起来很像一间宿舍
It also looks a lot like a dorm. 我跟你们说这些 是因为我找不到话说了
I tell you this because I'm running out things to say 这个宗教 心理 英语
and this synthesis of religion and psychology and English 和哲学的综合知识将会在今节课
and philosophy well all play an important part 发挥重要作用
in today's lecture. 我简单介绍一下今天会讲的内容
So today,very quickly the things that we'll talk about: 我们会讲幽默心理
we'll talk about psychology of humor; 我们会讲幽默
we are going to talk about the mental 对心理和生理的益处
and physical benefits of humor; 我们会讲幽默的积极社会影响
we'll talk about the positive social benefits, 你们自己培养幽默感的实用方法
pragmatic steps that you can take on your own 以及幽默最强大的功效
and the greatest power of humor 我认为那就是幽默的心理治疗价值
which is I believe the therapeutic value of humor, 通过改变我们的认知心态 用一种完全不同的
the ability to view the world in a completely different way 方法看待世界的能力
by changing our cognitive mindsets. 很多同学都知道
Now many of you know that 大部分期末试卷考题都是我出的
I'm responsible for writing much of the final. 而且我评卷看得很慢
I'm also a slow reader. 这两个因素结合起来 意味着
This combination means 期末考试大部分内容可能会出自这堂课
the majority of the final will be probably on this lecture. 所以我一定会指出这节课
So I'll definitely point out the parts of the lecture 有哪些内容是你们一定要写下来的
that you absolutely need to write down 而且今早的课一定会有大量的笔记
which surely must be extremely copious notes from this morning. 我告诉大家…我知道你们坐在那里
So let me tell you about – I know you are sitting there, 看着我的幻灯片想
looking at my PowerPoint slides and thinking yourself, "我前三个孩子都会取命为Shawn
"I'm probably gonna name my first three children Shawn 不管是男孩还是女孩
regardless of gender. 不知道是什么
And I wonder what it is 驱使Shawn学心理学的"
that got Shawn in psychology in the first place." 我会告诉大家 好让你们能专心听课
Well I'll tell you so you can concentrate, 也可以作为今天的一个案例
but it also serves as a case study for us today. 我爱上心理学
I fell in love with psychology 是当我爱上照顾我的保姆时
when I fell in love with my babysitter. 不止一个保姆
With my babysitters. 我的保姆都是我爸爸心理班的学生
All of my babysitters came from my dad's psychology class. 他在贝尔大学教心理学
He taught psychology in Bell University. 所以我的保姆都是那个班上的
So all of my babysitters came from his classes. 我爱上了她们全部
And I fell in love with all of them. 有一天我发现
And I realized at one point that 这种约会没有我希望的那么顺利
the dating wasn't going as well as I hoped to – 因为只有我父母付钱时 我们才能约会
we were only dating whenever my parents paid for it. 所以我决定自己来解决这个问题
And so I decided to take matters in my own hand. 我决定我能和这些女孩
And I decided that the only way 约会的唯一方法
that I could possibly date these girls 就是进入她们的世界
was to be part of their world for a little bit. 这招我是从"海的女儿"里的小美人鱼学来的
I took this advice from Ariel of the Little Mermaid.And 所以我决定当我爸爸班上的一个心理实验的
so I decided to volunteer to be part of a psychology experiment 自愿者
in my dad's class. 他很高兴我会去他的班
And he was really excited about having me there, 所以当他们班上
so he invited me on the day 准备了脑波机那天 他请我去他班上
when they have the brainwave machine in class 他们会把人连接上那台机器
and they are hooking people up to it. 我觉得这个好方法能让我给那些女孩
And I thought this would an excellent way for me 留下深刻印象
to impress these girls. 因为没什么能比头上涂了电极润滑油
Because nothing is as attractive like an electrodes lube 还连着各种各样的电线更吸引人了
on your head and with all these wires hanging off. 那天和今天一样热
It's just as hot today as it was then. 总之我去到班上 我在笑着
So anyway I was there,and I was smiling, 因为她们都朝我笑
because they were all smiling at me. 我觉得这个约会进展得还不错
And I thought things were going pretty well on our date so far. 突然 我爸爸因为太激动了
When all of a sudden,my dad was so excited - 他忘了做一件很简单的事
he forgot to do something very simple. 那是很久以前的事了 那台机器很原始
And it was a rudimentary machine because this was a while ago. 他忘了给脑波机接地线
He forgot to ground the wire on the brainwave machine. 所以我马上就遭到…
So the very first thing that happened to me was a – 在我们的约会上 我被电击了
on our date,was I got an electroshock. 我当时这样叫"把它关掉"
I was like,"Shut it off!" 大家都大笑起来
Everyone burst into laughter 我和这些女人的未来恋情也都泡汤了
including all of my future toward love affairs with these women. 我爸爸笑到流眼泪
And my dad was laughing so hard that he was crying. 他笑都连帮都帮不了我
He couldn't even help me. 他能关掉机器
He was able to shove the machine. 但他没有
But that's about it. 他可能觉得这样很好笑
And I guess he thought it was pretty funny. 也许残酷而不同寻常的惩罚是很好笑
I guess cruel and unusual punishments were pretty funny I guess. 爸爸 不如下次用水刑吧 谢谢你
Maybe water boarding next time,dad.Thanks a lot. 我很喜欢再参加你的实验
So I'd love to be part of your experiments again. 总之 我很尴尬 很生气
So anyway I was so embarrassed and so upset. 我一个一个都拔掉所有电极
I ripped off all of my electrodes one by one, 当时大家都在笑我
while everyone was laughing at me, 我从教室边上昂首挺胸地走出
and stalked off the side of the classroom. 当我走到门前时 幸好
And right as I get to the door,fortunately, 我转过身说
I turned back and said, "爸爸 谢谢你毁了我和这些女朋友发展的机会"
"dad,thanks a lot for ruining my chance with all my girlfriends," 然后摔门而去
and then slammed the door. 这是真的 那些女孩我一个都没追到
And it's true.I never did get any of these girls. 刚才那是怎么回事?
So what just happened there? 那几个听到这个故事大笑的同学
For the few of you that did laugh at the story, 这是什么…真奇怪
what was it that – it's weird. 这个教室的音效设备真好
Thing is that the acoustic is building incredible 你总是能听到笑声
like you can hear the laughter that is going on all the time. 太厉害了 就像这个教室能吞掉我的笑声一样
It's amazing.It's like the room is eating my laughter. 刚才那是怎么回事?
So what just happened there? 我想很有趣的一件事是
Well I think that one of the things that's really interesting 你们之所以听到这个故事会笑
is that you laugh at the story 因为我说的不是一个悲剧
because it's couched not as a story of tragedy 而是一个充满爱的虐童故事
but it's a story of love and child abuse. 我们之所以笑 是因为这一刻
And we laugh because this is a moment 我们都做好了笑的准备
in which we've been primed to laugh, 或者说 我们周围都是人
or surrounded by a group of people who, 我们笑 很可能是因为我们有一大班人
we are probably laughing because we are a roomful of people. 群体对我们有社会影响 对吧?
Groups have a social effect upon us,right? 如果你想隐藏感情 请尽管
So if you want to hide a sensation,please feel free 拉住坐在你旁边的同学的手
to hold the hands with the person sitting next to you. 但有趣的是 当你笑时
But the interesting thing is when you laugh, 笑声很怪异
laughter itself is so weird. 维基百科把幽默定义为
Wikipedia defines humor as "一种有节奏的发声的不由自主呼吸动作"
"the rhythmic,vocalized,expiratory and involuntary actions", 这也是我对我的舞姿的定义
which is I also hire to define as much of my dancing. 但当你笑时 就像现在
But when you are laughing and right now, 你身体有15块面部肌肉 在疯狂地运动
15 facial muscles in your body are going crazy, 包括你的大颧肌
including your zygomatic major muscle 它能同时拉起你的嘴唇
which is raising your lips at the same time. 非常酷 我不知道它的原理是什么
This is pretty cool.I have no idea how this happens. 会厌软骨开始盖住你的喉
But epiglottis starts to cover over your larynx, 这样就收缩了你的呼吸
which makes constricting your breathing, 所以基本上你是在窒息
which means you are basically suffocating, 这就是为什么笑的时候很难呼吸
which is why you are having trouble catching your breath. 别怪我引你们笑
You are welcome. 血压降低 同时
Blood pressure is lowered,while at the same time somehow 血管里血液的流量增大
you have an increased vascular blood flow 腹部肌肉伸缩
and you flex your abdominal, 呼吸 脸部 腿和后背的肌肉都会伸缩
respiratory,facial,leg,and back muscles. 这是我做过最强烈的健身运动
This is the most work out I've ever had.Ever. 这一切发生得太神奇了
Now this is amazing that this would happen. 很显然
And it's clear 幽默和笑声会对我们产生情感的影响
that humor and laughter has a visceral effect upon us. 很明显它有社会影响
It clearly has social effect – 如果你现在心情好
if you are in a good mood right now, 你可能会笑得更多
chances are you could be laughing more; 如果你现在心情不好
if you are in a bad mood right now, 你可能听到我的笑话 会忍不住大笑
chances are you can't help laughing at my joke. 所以这当中的几个作用因素 是社会环境
So part of what's going on here is that the social environment, 教室 还有笑话本身
the room,the jokes themselves, 我的身体因此而表现出变化
your physical body are all manifesting changes because of this. 问题是 你能研究幽默吗
The question is then – can we study humor 就像我们问的那个问题"你能研究幸福吗?"一样
just as we ask the question "can we study happiness?" 研究幽默有什么用?
And what's the point of studying humor? 就像Tal讲过的那样
Well,just as Tal mentioned that 现在的学术期刊上
right now there's a either 17 to 1 or 21 to 1 消极研究与积极研究的比例是
negative to positive ratio of research 17比1 或者21比1
that is occurring in the scholar journals. 昨晚我写这节课的讲义时
Last night when I supposed to be writing this talk, 我在eResources上查东西
I looked on the e-resources and 我发现消极研究与幽默研究的比例是97比3
found that there's a 97 to 3 ratio of negative to humor research. 例如 研究抑郁症的有125000篇文章
For example,depression was 125,000 articles, 而研究幽默的只有4943篇
while humor was only 4,943 articles. 搜索Steven Colbert时 结果为零
Nothing came up for "Steven Colbert". 这其中有一个重要原因
But the reason why that this is important 因为一种叫医学院症候群的现象
is because of something called Medical School Syndrome. 我们知道
We know that 我们的学习对我们的身体是绝对有影响的
the way we study absolutely has effects upon our body. 所以如果你知道医学院症候群
So if you know that the Medical School Syndrome, 你就会知道
you'll know that 当医生对世界上各种疾病的知识
as doctors are learning about all the different diseases 越来越丰富时
that are out there in the world, 他们会突然发现 自己好像什么病都患上了
suddenly they realize they have all of them. 我妹夫从医学院打电话给我
And my brother in law called me from medical school 他说"Shawn" 我妹夫名字叫Bobo
and said,"Shawn," – my brother in law's name is Bobo. 这是题外话了
That's another story. Bobo从医学院打电话给我
Bobo called me from medical school, 他说"Shawn 我患麻风了"
and said,"Shawn I have leprosy." 我不知道怎么安慰他
And I had no idea how to console him 因为他刚刚才过完更年期
because he just got over a menopause. 我们研究世界的视角 真的能改变
The way we study the world around us actually changes the lens 我们看待世界的视角
through which we view the world. 如果我们不研究幽默
And if we are not studying humor, 我们就不会了解社会互动的
we are missing out one of the major aspects 一个重大方面
of social interactions, 也无法了解世界是怎么运行的
but also the way that the world works. 那为什么我们对幽默的研究这么少?
So why don't we talk about humor more often? 首先 幽默是非常难定义的
First of all,humor is extremely difficult to define. 每次你想定义幽默
Every time you are tempted to define humor, 它就从你的指间溜走
it seems to slip through your fingers. 每次你想…大家觉得好笑的东西都不一样
Every time you try... Everyone finds something else funny,right? 例如我今天想放的视频
What I wanted to show for videos today, 你们可能会觉得一点都不好笑
you might not find funny at all. 你们觉得好笑的地方 客观来说一点都不好笑
And what you find funny is objectively not funny at all. 我想让我父母看"太坏了"
I tried to show my parents Superbad 因为我觉得那部电影很好笑
cause I thought that was funny. 但就算他们心里觉得好笑
And if they are laughing on the inside, 他们也不会笑出来
they certainly weren't showing on the outside. 一部分是…
Part of what we were doing – 有些人听到严肃的事会笑
you know some people laugh at things serious 或者说本应该很严肃的事 例如"绯闻女孩"
that are supposed to be serious,like Gossip Girl. Kirkland宿舍的人
And then people on the Kirkland - kirkland宿舍的女同学 要用枕头打她们
Kirkland girl have to throw pillows at them 威胁把她们登在广告栏上 才能让她们笑出来
and threaten to ad-board them just so I don't miss anything. 所以我为什么说…研究幽默的难点之一就是定义
So why I talk about... So part of it is the definitional problems. 我们很难定义幽默是什么
It's so difficult for us actually define what humor is, 因为当你一定义它
because the moment you begin to define it, 它就从指间溜走了
it seems to slip through fingers. 当你想向别人解释
The moment you are tempted to explain to somebody, 向你交友网eHarmony上的对象解释
explain to your e-harmony date 为什么你比她们想象中的更幽默时
why you are much funnier than they think you are, 你就知道
you already know 不管怎样看 你都走错方向了
you've gone down the wrong path for a lot of different reasons. 我们从中发现
But part of what we are seeing here is that 一旦我们试图去定义某些东西
once we are tempted to define something, 一旦我们试图定义是什么让一些事情变得幽默时
once we attempt to define what makes something humorous, 这些事情马上就不幽默了
it immediately seems to go away. 这是一个死青蛙问题
This is the Dead Frog Problem. 死青蛙问题就是说
The Dead Frog Problem is that 你越是解剖一只青蛙 它死得就越快
the more you seem to dissect the frog,the faster it seems to die 笑话也如此
The same is true with a joke. 因此
And as a result of this, 这使得幽默很难研究
that makes it very difficult for us to study it. 即使我们能研究它
But let's say even if we could study it. 假设我们能研究它
Let's say we could study it. 我们知道它对我们的身体和社交有益处
We know it has physical and social benefits. 但如果有些人天生就是幽默的
That doesn't do us a world of good 有些人天生就是不幽默的
if people are just naturally funny 就算研究它也帮不了我们什么
and some people are unnaturally funny. 如果你天生就幽默
If you are just genetically funny,if you are born funny, 我们认为确实有些人是天生幽默的
and we all think that there are certain people that are like that 如果你认为幽默是天生的
if you think that some people are born funny, 这样就知道它有什么益处 对我们也没什么帮助
that doesn't do us any good to talk about the benefits 因为我们都得不到这些益处
that none of us can access. 这跟幸福心理是一样的道理 对吧?
It's the same way with positive psychology,right? 在研究积极 幸福
It's the same problem we have with positive and happy 乐观的人是 也有同样的问题 他们太莫名其妙了
and optimistic people – they are just annoying. 但我们可以看到
But part of what we are seeing is, 我们研究幸福心理的一个担心是
that part of our worry is that while we are studying this, 如果幸福 积极 和乐观都是由基因决定的
if happiness,positivity and optimism are all based upon genetics 那么研究我们在这个班上所讲的内容
then there's no point of studying any of the things 还有什么意义?
we've been talking about so far in this class. 幽默也是如此
The same is true with humor. 如果我们得不到这些益处
If we can't access any of those benefits, 只会给幽默的人更多理由来嘲笑我们
that just gives the funny people more to laugh at us about. 我想我们今天能克服所有这些障碍
So I think we can overcome all the barriers today. 我知道幸福心理领域已经出版了
And I think there are some extraordinary research 一些非常棒的研究
that has been coming out in positive psychology 还有专门研究幽默的研究
and research specifically on humor 这些研究能让我们
that's actually going to allow us 用全新的角度来研究幽默这个人类现象
to be able to look at this human phenomena in a way 并且给我们带来各种各样的益处
that actually is gonna help us in a lot of different ways. 所以我想告诉大家 我们有…
So let me tell you that there is actually - 为了让我们能够像研究幸福心理一样研究幽默
in order to study this just as we did with positive psychology, 我们要看看
we are going to have to look at 心理学的人文传统
where we looked at the humanist tradition of psychology. 所以我们要立足于
So too we are going to ground ourselves 幽默的哲学
in the philosophies of humor. 我们会讲到研究幽默的三大巨人
We are gonna have to understand the giants of humor. 我们还会讲两个理论
And we are gonna look at two of the theories 我觉得这两个理论 没有什么高低之分
which I don't find one of them more compelling than the other. 真正高明的是我的解释
What I find really compelling is my explanation 我稍后就会讲给大家听
which I shall be giving afterwards. 这三大巨人
So basically there are three giants 研究幽默这个心理学领域的三大巨人
in the field of psychological research on humor- 就是弗洛伊德 伯格森 和我
Sigmund Freud,Henri Bergson,and me. 我们先来讲弗洛伊德
And so we'll first talk about Sigmund Freud. 弗洛伊德他在很多课题上 都作出过无懈可击的
Sigmund Freud whose surely unassailable logical assumptions on 符合逻辑的假设 而且这些假设都将经受得起时间的考验
the whole host of topics will absolutely stand the test of time. 他写了一本书叫
Wrote a book called Jokes 《笑话及其与潜意识的关系》
and Their Relationship to the Unconscious. 《笑话及其与潜意识的关系》
Jokes and Their Relationship to the Unconscious - 如果你还没有看过 对于写一本关于幽默的书的人来说
if you haven't read it - is for a guy writing a book about humor, 这本书是自《利末记》以来最不好笑的笑话集
this is the most unfunny collection of stories since Leviticus. 在这本书里 他描述了一种典范意识
And in this book he describes this model consciousness 在我们内心有一个本我 这个本我包括了大家都有的
while the inside you have the id - the id contains the sexual 性欲 生命力 和冲动
and the physical and the violent impulses that we all have. 我没有 因为我读过神学院
I don't have,cause I went to the Divinity School, 但你们都有
but you all have. 本我之外 是自我 这个自我会把本我视为
Outside of that is the ego which makes the decisions about the id 本我冲动和社会之间一道可渗透的屏障
as the permeable barrier between the id impulses and the society. 最外面的是超我
And the outside layer is super-ego. 超我是加在我们身上的
The super-ego is the moral constraints, 道德约束和社会约束
the societal constraints that is placed upon us. 例如 如果我的本我冲动
So for example,if my id impulse make, 说我很生气 我想揍你
means that I'm angry at you,and I want to punch you, 我的超我 那个道德约束就会阻止我打你
my super-ego,the constraints of society prevent me from doing so 同样 如果我想和某个人上床
And in the same way if I was wanting to have sex with somebody 我的超我说这样不行
and my super-ego said that it was not OK. 超我
The super-ego, 这个社会道德约束会阻止我和别人上床
the moral constraints of society would prevent me from having sex 这可能是唯一能阻止我上床的东西了
That's probably the only thing keeping me from having sex. 我的超我
It's my super-ego. 我们发现
And so one of the things that we find 弗洛伊德说的是 我们都会受挫
is that Freud argues we get frustrated. 我们都会受挫 因为我们都有本我冲动
We get frustrated because those id impulses are there 但我们没办法把这些冲动释放出来
but we have no way of getting those impulses out into the world. 所以我们就会被压抑
And so we become repressed. 你越压抑
And more you become repressed, 最终就会爆发
I think something's about exploding in the end. 所以压抑会带来严重后果
So there's something that's really bad about that. 他认为 幽默是一种社会可接受的
So what he says is that humor is a socially acceptable envelope 用来疏导这些欲望的信封
for couching those id desires. 这是一种社会可接受的
It's a way,a socially acceptable way 把本我冲动释放出来的方法 这就解释了
of getting those id impulses out into society,which explains 为什么我们很多幽默 本质上都是与性和攻击有关的
why so much of our humor is sexual or aggressive in nature. 我们可以举很多例子来说明
There's a lot of different examples that we can talk about this- 把幽默视为一个心理保险库
that humor as a psychological safety vault, 这就解释了
is one of the ways which explains 为什么你们会在首次约会时说一些隐晦的黄段子 对吧?
why you have sexual innuendo jokes on the first date,right? 在我们的体格特征得到社会接受前
Before physicality might be socially acceptable, 这也解释了"办公室"里Michael Scott说的那个
which also explains Michael Scott from the Office - "她是这样说的"笑话
"that's what she said" jokes, 他不管什么事都说"她是这样说的"
where he says "that's what she said" to everything. 他有些笑话很隐晦
While some of them are pretty hard to understand,and slippery, 很难领会 但我每次听到都笑而不语 心满意足
and hard to grasp,they always left me smiling and satisfied. 这也解释了我们为什么喜欢拿政治人物来开玩笑
So this also explains humor we have toward political figures. 很多时候 政治人物不能…
A lot of time when political figures were not able to, 因为我们无法通过性行为
we have no recourse at the sexual aggressive level 来发泄这种挫折感
to vent our frustration. 所以我们就会通过幽默来表达对政治的不满
So humor is actually one of the ways we can get that out there. 通过语言上的幽默
The humor itself using words is the way that 我们能够允许冲动释放出来
we can allow for id impulses to come out. 因为这些话
Because those words 不会破坏我们大部分的社会结构
don't violate very many of our social constructions. 我们等一下会再讲到这一点
We'll talk about that in a moment - 弗洛伊德理论的缺陷之一
one of the flaws with Freud theory. 正常来说 言语伤不了人
But supposedly the words don't actually harm us. 它是社会可接受的
So it's socially acceptable. Steven Colbert说六块石头就能砸碎我的骨头
Steven Colbert says that six stones may break my bones, 但言语永远伤不了我
but words will never hurt me, 除非你拿本字典砸我
unless you throw a dictionary at me. 写下这句 这句很重要 写下来
Write that down.That's important.Write that down. 亨利·伯格森是幽默研究领域的第二大巨人
Henri Bergson is the second giant in the field of humor research. 亨利·伯格森 我肯定没念错
Henri Bergson,which I'm definitely saying right 因为我用法语口音再加上我的德州口间念的
with the French accent combined with a Texan. 这个名字的发音…念法语可以省念很多音
I think Henri Berg... I think you- with French you drop everything. 真的话? 这句你们都觉得好笑? 好的
And... Really? That one was funny? All right. 他认为幽默是一种社会纠正器 他认为…
Humor as a social "corrective" - he argues that 就像以前上过这门课的Abraham Maslow说过
just like Abraham Maslow who is studied earlier in the class, 人是有一个发展轨迹的
is that humans are under developmental trajectory 终点是自我实现 或者说实现我们的潜力
toward self-actualization or achieving our potential. 伯格森认为 幽默就是轨迹上的一个点
And what Bergson argues is that humor is the point 在一个点上 当我们偏离这条轨迹时
in which we correct somebody 当我们做一些阻碍我们自我实现的事时
when we slip or fall off this developmental trajectory, 幽默就会马上
when we do something that doesn't allow us to self-actualize 纠正我们
as fast as we could. 例如 喜剧演员Lewis Black这样说那些
Comedian Lewis Black for example talks about children 参加哈利波特魁地奇夏令营
who go during the summer to Harry Potter Quidditch camps 骑着个扫把 玩飞盘的孩子
and ride around on brooms and throw Frisbees - 我念不对 跟玩伴玩飞盘
I can't say it - Frisbees at each other. 他其实是拐了个弯来骂这些孩子
And what he says is to gently chide these children – 他说 这群怪小孩
he said these children 现在就该开始为毕业舞会找不到舞伴发愁了
might as well start crying about the prom now. 他的意思是 当我们做了一些不利于适应的事时
What he is doing there is,as we've done something maladaptive 例如去参加哈利波特魁地奇夏令营
like going to a Harry Potter Quidditch camp 或者花14美元去Om喝杯酒
or paying 14 dollars for a drink at Om 或者打心底里喜欢经济计量学或者地主理论
or actively enjoying an econometrics or landlord theory 或者在香港俱乐部和餐厅订餐
or actually ordering food at the Hong Kong lounge and restaurant. 在这些情况下
In all these situations, 我们笑这些人 是为了纠正他们
we laugh at individuals in order to correct them, 阻止他们偏离这条发展轨迹
to prevent them from falling off this development trajectory 这样他们就能继续迈向自我实现的目标
so that they can continue on toward self-actualization. 如果有人打电话来 如果我女朋友打来…
If somebody calls,if my girlfriend calls,if my girlfriend,- 我还希望大家能给点掌声
I was hoping it would get a clap. 我就知道大家都不觉得奇怪我有女朋友 至少没人笑
I knew this wasn't odd.At least no one was laughing. 如果一个女朋友打给电话给她男朋友
So if a girlfriend calls her boyfriend 留了一段不雅的留言
to leave a scandalous junk dial message, 意外地这段留言
and accidentally leaves this junk dial message 留到她男朋友父亲的电话上了
on her boyfriend's father's work line, 我们都会大笑 为了纠正这样的错误
we laugh in order to correct those mistakes. 另一个我在Kirkland宿舍听说的笑话是 有一个人
Another story that I heard in Kirkland was somebody 在万圣节那天穿了一件
who for Halloween dressed up with a making a dress 用Cosmo杂志的文章和胶带做成的裙子
completely out of magazine articles from Cosmo using duck tape 在大冷天走出去
and went out on the freezing cold, 滑了一跤 屁股掉到冰面上 裙子撕破了
slipped and fell on the ice on her butt and tore the dress. 这个故事有太多值得我们笑的地方
And I don't even know where to begin with that one. 但我们会笑的原因之一是
But part of the reason that we laugh is that 我们有时都会偏离发展轨迹
we all fall through developmental trajectory at some point. 我记得柏拉图说过
And I believe that it was Plato who said that 杂志裙子不能帮我们更快地达到自我实现
the magazine dresses will not help us self-actualize any faster. 我们已经讲了两个内容了
So we've looked at two different things: 我们讲了幽默是一种纠正器
we've looked at humor as a corrective, 我们讲了幽默是一种心理释放
and we looked humor as a psychology release. 我个人觉得在研究幽默作为社会纠正器
I think one of the people that's absolutely brilliant 这个领域中
in the field of research on humor 有一个非常聪明的人 他就是三巨人之一
as a social corrective is one of the giants I think myself - 这是我自己评的 他就是Dale Sturtevant
no one says that - is Dale Sturtevant. Dale Sturtevant是一个
Dale Sturtevant is somebody that 你们绝对需要在笔记本里记下来的人
you definitely want to write down in your notes. 很幸运 多亏有了神奇的Youtube
And fortunately thanks to the magic of YouTube, 你们能看到Dale Sturtevant是怎么研究心理学的
we are gonna get to see Dale Sturtevant's approach to psychology. 我是Dale Sturtevant
I'm Dale Sturtevant. 我六岁起就养狗
I've been raising dogs since I was six. 没什么能比训练小狗给我带来
And nothing has brought me more joy, 更多的快乐和挫败感
or more sheer frustration,than training a puppy. 养一只小狗
With a very young pup, 纠正它不正确的行为尤其让人恼火
correcting problem behavior can be especially maddening. 像你一样
And,like you, 我试过所有的办法 骂到声音嘶哑
I've probably tried all the tricks - screaming myself hoarse, 不给东西它们吃 把它们锁在柜子里连续几天
starving them,locking them in a closet for days on end, 或者毫不留情地打它们
or just beating them without mercy. 但在我第三次被气得心脏病发
But after my third arrest 和上了一个法庭强制的控制愤怒心理治疗后
and court-ordered anger-management counseling, 我学会了把我的愤怒
I learned to channel my rage 转化为一个有效非暴力的训练手段
into an effective non-violent puppy training tool. 这个手段叫"鄙视你的狗
It's called "Dissing Your Dog: 如何用讽刺和口头羞辱来训练你的小狗"
how to train your puppy with mockery and verbal humiliation". 你们看
You see, 狗要比我们想象中的更聪明
dogs are much more intuitive than we give them credit for. 它们知道自己什么时候被人嘲笑
They know when they're the butt of ridicule. 当它们不听话时
And when they misbehave, 一句到位的讽剌 或者一句伤人的话
a well-placed sarcastic comment or cutting remark 就能达到一根打狗棒达不到的效果
can work wonders wherever a rolled-up newspaper fails. 不管你的小狗有什么行为问题
Whatever your puppy's behavior problem, 我保证可以帮你纠正
I guarantee I can help you fix it. 例如 跳到沙发上
Problems like jumping on furniture. 不 Humphrey 别起来
Oh no,no,no,Humphrey,don't get up. 你应该躺在上面休息 毕竟
Why don't you just stay there,relax? After all, 你在一份要求高压力大的工作中忙了一整天
you did put in a long day of work at a demanding high-stress job. 不 慢着 那应该是我才对
Oh no,wait a minute,that's me! 我想起来了 我才是要工作的那个人
Now I remember! I'm the one with the job. 你只是一条整天在家里躺着
You're the one who lies around the house all day 流了满地口水的狗
in a pool of your own slobber! 在家里大小便
Accidents in the house. "Walter 多亏你"帮忙"装饰了这张米白色新沙发
"Hey,Walter! Thanks for your ‘help' with the new off-white sofa. 大家都说你拉在上面的那堆东西
Everybody agrees that dump you left there 给了它一个完美的"点缀"
was the perfect 'accent'. 做得好 对了 Milton Berle打过电话来
So,good job.Oh,and by the way,Milton Berle called. 他想要回他的膀胱控制器 这就对了 真乖"
He wants his bladder control back.That's it! Good dog!" 挑食
Fussy eating habits. "对 Margaret 你想吃的是顶级排骨
"Oh,right,Margaret,you wanted a prime rib. 事情是这样的:Palm餐厅不接受订位
Here's the deal: The Palm wasn't taking reservations, 我没试过打去Morton's餐馆订位
and I didn't even try Morton's 因为我知道他们换了新大厨
because I understand they have a new chef. 所以现在 你就吃Alpo狗粮吧 好吗?
So for now,let's just go with the Alpo,okay? 我知道这不是你的第一选择 但别忘了
I know it's not your first choice but keep in mind, 你只是一条狗!"
you're a f--king dog! " 这个现代卓别林让我笑得流眼泪
Shawn:Tears come to my eyes at this modern day Marva Collins. 为什么我们看这段视频?
So why do we look at this series? 我们为什么要学习这两个理论?它们对我们有什么帮助?
Why do we study these philosophies? How do they help us? 其实它们帮不了我们 它们都是错的
Well,they don't,because they are both wrong. 它们错的原因是 他们忽略了一个
And the reason that it is wrong is they missed the part of the, 幽默的特征
part about humor that 我们认为这个特征是最重要的 我的解释也很重要
I think is most important and my explanation for it. 你们不用马上全部记下来
\fe1\fnCalibri\fs15\b1\bord2\shad0\fsp0\c&H0ffffff&So oh you don't have to write all of this down at once - 假装PPT上的东西是慢慢地出来的
pretended it slowly coming out. 我认为幽默就像一种正念视角
So I believe that humor is a mindful lens 我们透过这个视角来看待世界
through which we view the world. 我们研究这点的一个角度是
And part of the way that we can see that is that 我们可以把幽默视为一种认知心态
we can see that humor itself is the cognitive lens 我们通过它看待我们周围发生的事
through which we view actions that come into our environment. 要研究这个问题 我们可以问
We can see this by asking question 为什么一些别人认为不好笑 或者很悲剧的事情
of why is that some people find humor in situations 有些人会从中看到幽默?
where some people see something as neutral or sad or tragic. 为什么有些人觉得好笑的东西
Right? Why is it that some people can find things 别人会觉得不好笑?
that can be funny where other people can't? 同样道理 为什么
And the same way that somebody 乐观的人能在一件事中看到好的一面
who is optimistic can find something that is good in a situation, 而不悲不乐的人 或者悲观的人
where somebody who's in a neutral state,or pessimistic state, 就看不到好的一面呢?
can't see this as well? 要明白这点…这个麦克风真好用
Now to understand this,part of - this mic is great. 谢谢
Thank you.Yes. 我也觉得这个一个好方法
I also agree it's a brilliant,a brilliant idea. 除了这些以外 我们还要…
\fe1\fnCalibri\fs15\b1\bord2\shad0\fsp0\c&H0ffffff&So part of what we are seeing here is we need to - 为了要明白这个问题
in order to understand this, 我们要讲一下打破社会规则
let's talk a little bit about social rule breaking. 我相信我们有一些不成文的社会规则
I believe that there are unscripted social rules that 不停地指导着我们的生活 但我们不会讨论它们
guide our life all the time that we never really talk about. 我教过社会心理学
I taught for social psychology. 在教社会心理学时
And for social psychology we, 我们在班上做过一件事
one of the things that we did for the class is that 我们把同学分成两人一组
we split people up in pairs, 叫他们去打破社会规则
and made them go out and break social rules. 在那一周里 他们会做很多事
So they would go out during the week 他们会走进哈佛其中一间宿舍的电梯里
and they would go into an elevator in one of the houses 然后慢慢地在电梯里转过身
and then just slowly turned around in that elevator 面朝着身后的同学
and faced the people behind you. 或者在电梯里躺下来
Or just lie down in the elevator 看看那些同学会不会说什么
and see if people will say anything, 或者去星巴克 买杯咖啡时跟人讨价还价
or go to Starbucks and haggle for the price of a coffee, 说你在家里做的话要便宜很多
saying you can get it cheaper if you made it at home. 或者上Coop网站
Or going to the Coop, 用一本书来买东西
attempting the barter system for one of the books. 或者去商店里问人要免费样品
Or going to places and asking for free samples for things 那些没有免费样品的商品 例如Felipe's店的玉米煎饼
that we can't get free sample for,like a Felipe's burrito. 我还知道有个同学走进他的运动员更衣室里
Or I know one guy who went into his athletic locker 问遍更衣室里的每个人 问他们
and then went up to everyone who is there and asked them 愿不愿意帮他擦背 因为他太累了
if they would please soap up his back because he was tired. 还有一个女同学 在女生更衣室里
Another girl would only take showers in the girls' locker room 看到有人在浴室里洗澡
where somebody else was already taking a shower 她就只进那个浴室洗澡
where shower has already been used. 还有一个同学…我想说明的是 有很多事情可以打破社会规则
Another person – I mean you can do a lot of different things 例如走进浴室
like you can go into the bathroom 隔着浴室门和别人聊起来
and strike up a conversation through the bathroom's door. 这个非常好玩
This one is great. 你们应该试试看 "你好 隔壁的同学"
You should do that here,say "hello,neighbor!" 然后两个人聊起来
Talk amongst yourselves. 最好笑的笑话…声音真的变大了
You know the funniest joke that - wow! Really magnified. 你们能听到我吗?
Can you guys hear me? 太棒了 早就该这样了
Aww,this is great! This should happen all the time. 现在我后面有很多东西了
I got a lot of things back here now. 我讲到哪里了?课堂上可能不应该说这种话
Where was I? This is not probably the talk. 你们知道…我记不住笑话的
You guys know – I can never remember any jokes 有人在网站上评选出一个最好笑的笑话
but the funniest joke that they did on the website, 他们看了网站上的笑话 真的找出了有科学根据的
like they actually found out what the scientific funniest joke 最好笑的笑话
was by doing reading on the website. 有一个美国人去打猎
And one of the Americans was a guy who is hunting - 我不会讲笑话
I can't tell jokes. 他…
But he was, 这个人找电话给接线员 他说"接线员"
this guy calls into a operator and goes,"operator! Operator!" 接线员说"这是911报警中心" 所以说我不会讲笑话
This is 911.He says – this is why I can't tell jokes. 他当时在宾夕法尼亚州的Scranton市 那天是星期二
He was in Scranton,Pennsylvania.This is Tuesday. 总之 他打电话给接线员说"接线员
Anyway,so he calls the operator and says,"Operator! Operator! 我刚才打猎时 我好像打中我的朋友了
I think I just shot my friend while we are hunting. 他好像死了"
I think he's dead!" 接线员说"好的 冷静 先生
And the operator goes,"OK.Calm down sir.Calm down sir. 我们要你做的第一件事是
The very first thing that we need you to do 确保你的朋友已经死了"
is check to make sure that he's dead." 他说"好的"
So he said,"OK.OK." 经过一阵平静的停顿后 他放下电话
And you hear this quiet,this pause,as he puts down the phone 几秒钟后听到枪声
and a few seconds later you here gun shot. 砰!
PPPCCCHHHUUUUU! 他拿起电话说"好的 现在他死了 接下来怎么办?"
And he comes back to his phone and says,"OK.He's dead.Now what?" 这是美国最好笑的笑话 有点意外
This is the funniest joke in America.That's surprising. 欧洲最好笑的笑话是…有点不适合在课堂上讲
The funniest joke in Europe was – not appropriate. 有两只雪貂坐在一间酒吧里
It's: there's two ferrets sitting in a bar. 一只雪貂中另一只说
And one ferret says to the other ferret that, "我昨晚和你妈妈睡了"
"I slept with your mom last night." 另一个雪貂什么都没说
And the other ferret doesn't say anything. 那只雪貂见它什么都没说 就说
And the other ferret thinks that he doesn't say anything so he says "我昨晚和你妈妈睡了"
"I slept with your mom last night." 第二只雪貂还是什么都没说
And the second ferret says nothing. 最后它…
And he finally - 另一个雪貂 雪貂A说"我昨晚和你妈睡了"
other ferret,ferret A said,"I slept with your mom last night." 雪貂B说"爸爸 回家吧 你醉了"
And ferret B says,"Dad,go home.You are drunk." 掌声
[Laugh and applause] 打破社会规则的一个有趣之处是
So the interesting thing about this breaking of social rules 它不仅影响了其他人
is not just the effect that it had on other people, 影响了我们对于整天
or the awareness that we have, 围在我们身边的社会条文的意识
social scripts that are surrounding us all the time. 当我们打破社会规则时
It's the awareness of how we act 还使我们意识到了自己的行为
when we are breaking a social rule. 有些同学
Some of the people that 做这个实验时大笑不止
are attempting to do this experiment absolutely broke down. 他们连实验都做不下去了
They could not go on with this experiment. 有些人在尴尬中发现幽默
Other people found humor in the awkwardness. 因此 他们能够享受这个实验
And because of that,they were able to enjoy the experience 把自己的快乐建筑在别人的痛苦之上
and actually cause other people more suffering. 我们从中发现
Part of what we are seeing here is that - 我们有一个心态
absolutely is the mindset that 决定什么是好笑的 什么是不好笑的
dictates whether or not something is going to be funny. 如果这真的是由心态决定 那我们就可以控制它
And if it's mindset,it's within our control. 今天我们就讲几个
And today we are going to talk about some of the ways 控制这个心态的方法
you can actually control that. 我们这个学期之前讲过
But one of the things that we talked about earlier Wiseman对幸运配方的研究
in this semester was Wiseman's study on the luck factor. 大家回忆一下 幸运配方是指
Remember the luck factor was 他研究 并创立了一间运气学校
where he studied and actually created the luck school, 教人们怎么去觉得自己更幸运
in which you can teach people how to feel more lucky, 给人们同一个情景
and how you can give people the same exact scenario 有些人会觉得幸运
where some people would feel lucky, 有些人会觉得不幸
or some people would feel unlucky. 例如 如果你走进一间银行
So for example,if you walk into a bank, 那里有100个人在等
and you are there with a hundred people - 假设 我们在…
actually let's say that we are here in - 我们不在Annenberg 我们在Sanders
we are not in Annenberg - we are here in Sanders. 有人拿着一支枪走进来
And somebody walks in with a gun 开了一次枪 打中了我的手臂
and fires his weapon one time and shoots me right in the arm. 这是走运还是倒霉?
Do I consider this to be a lucky event or an unlucky event? 根据Wiseman所说
Well according to Wiseman, 这取决于我用什么反事实去看待这件事了
that depends upon the counterfactual I used to determine this. 如果我拿这件事跟
If I compare to every other time 我平时进戏院的情况相比
that I have been here and in the theater, 那这件事肯定是倒霉了 对吧?
that seems to be a pretty unlucky event,right? 这样看 非常不幸
And it seems to be pretty unfortunate. 这个房间里还有很多人
I mean there's a lot of other people in the room 这个人可以打中很多人
that this person can shoot. 我还是读过神学院的
I went to the Divinity School. 我肯定比这个房间里至少一个人要好
I'm sure I'm better than at least one of the other people in here 肯定至少有一个人比我更活该中枪
and deserve this less. 可为什么偏偏打中我?
So why was I the one that got shot? 但从另一方面看
On the other hand, 我可以用另一个反事实去跟这件事比较
the counter fact that I could use to compare to see 看看这件事是走运还是倒霉
if this is actually a lucky or not lucky event,that 这个反事实可以是"他有可能打中我的头"
counter fact could be "well he could have shot me in the head." 我喜欢这个乐观
Now I know I love that the optimistic 幸运的观点 因为我总是选择
and lucky view point as I always choose things 能造成最多伤害和流血的反事实 对吧?
that cause the most carnage and blood,right? 或者说 我有可能被打中头部和心脏
Or I could've got shot in the head and the heart 流血过多而死
and died upon stage bleeding to death. 这样…我坏了大家的心情了
That would be - I'm definitely killing the mood. 每天都这样子
This is just like every day. 通常都是上课20分钟就这样
So it usually happens about 20 minutes in. 所以这取决于我用什么反事实
So based upon the way that I actually decide to counter a fact 来决定我觉得什么好笑 什么不好笑
to that determine whether or not I find something be funny. 幽默也是同样道理
In the same way,humor is the same way. 环境非常重要
Look at how much the context matters. 如果我说一个事实
If I said something this fact, 一件毫无感情的事 如"我弄断趾甲了"
this innocuous like,"I cut my toe nail." 这一点都不好笑
That's not really funny. 但如果我说"我在上课时弄断了趾甲"
But if I said "I cut my toe nail in the class". 这样说就有点好笑了
Suddenly it seems to be like a little bit more funny. 不是很好笑 但有点好笑了
Not Haha funny but a little bit funnier. "酒精能使人醉" 这是一个毫无感情的事实
Or "alcohol makes you drunk" is an innocuous fact. "酒精能使人醉"
"Alcohol makes you drunk" 在上一节讲幽默的课前说这句话就有点好笑了
before giving a lecture on humor is a little bit funnier. 所以我们可以从中看出
So part of what we are seeing here is that 你看待环境的视角
the way that you view the environment, 你分析世界的视角 能直接影响
the way that you parse the world actually has a direct effect 当你一听到某件事时 会不会觉得它
upon whether or not you find something to be funny 好笑
in the first place. 在我的课堂上 我们有两样东西叫
This is something we call in my sections α因素和β因素
the Alpha press and the Beta press. α因素就是指客观的现实约束
The Alpha press is the objective constraints of reality. 我们都有同样的α因素
We are all experiencing the same Alpha press. 我们都坐在同一个教室 有同样的灯光
We are all sitting in the same room with the same lights. 但我们的β因素
But our Beta press - 是对现实的主观感受 是不同的
our subjective construal of reality,is different. 这间教室里每个人都有不同的
Every person in here is experiencing something different - 感受
they are experiencing - 有些人觉得无聊 有些觉得饿
you are either like bored or tired or hungry right now. 有些人觉得兴奋 有些觉得高兴 我觉得很紧张
Or excited and happy.I'm apparently nervous. 我们从中看出
And part of what you are seeing is that 他们看待世界的视角
their way of viewing the world 绝对会影响你如何看待α因素
absolutely has an effect upon how you view that Alpha press. 到目前为止 我们讲过的幸福心理学的内容…
Things we've been talking about positive psychology so far – 我讲过在什么情况下
I've been talking about the ways 我们的β因素是可塑的
in which our Beta press is actually malleable - 我们可以改变我们的β因素
that we can change our Beta press, 因此能大大地改变
and as a result have an extreme amount of changes 我们的适应行为
in our adaptive behavior. 我认为幽默是一个很强大的工具
I think that humor is one of the most powerful ways 我们可以利用它通过改变我们看待环境的视角
that we can actually change the Beta press by changing the way that 来改变我们的β因素 让它适应我们
we actually view our environment so it's actually adaptive for us 在哈佛医学院有一个
There are something that they found at Harvard medical school 俄罗斯方块效应
called the Tetris Effect. 俄罗斯方块效应是…多少同学玩过俄罗斯方块?
The Tetris Effect is - how many people play Tetris? 很多
A lot.Oooh! Yes.Oooh. 俄罗斯方块是…还没玩过的同学
Tetris is a – if you haven't played it – 在这个游戏里 有不同大小的形状
is a game in which shapes of different sizes 从上面掉下来
fall from the ceiling as they do it in life. 你旋转这些形状
And you rotate them around 把这些形状排成一整排
and you try and make straight lines across. 如果一排排满了
And if you make a straight line all the way across, 这一排就会消失
the line disappears. 然后你继续这样一直排到顶
And you try to keep the shape going all the way up to the top. 他们在试验中发现…
What they found in their testing - 他们找大学生来玩电子游戏
they are actually testing video games on college students. 在医学院 他们发现
At the medical school,they found that 学生连续玩了四五个小时的俄罗斯方块后
after students played about 4,5 hours of Tetris straight 他们是有钱拿的 非常好的一个交易
and get paid for,which is a pretty good deal. 玩了以后 他们回到宿舍
Then afterwards,they went back to their rooms 继续他们平常的生活
and went on with their lives for the most part. 有主观报告说 这些学生
And there are subjective reports that some of these individuals 当他们去到超市时
when they go into a super market, 他们开始重新排列货架上的面包
and start rearranging the bread on the shelf 让它们排成直直的一排
so they made straight lines. 或者他们看到路上的车时 会想
Or they'd be looking at the traffic and say, "我要把这辆车放到这里排在一排
"Oh,I'll shape car here to complete that line 这样来交朋友"
and make friends that way." 或者他们会…有一个男同学
Or they would.Or this one guy was actually 看着体育画报的泳装写真日历号
looking at the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Calendar Issue 上面有
and when they had all the, 很多模特在同一张日历上
like a lot of models all together at one. 他说了一句话 "我希望有一个摆Z姿势的女人
And his comment was - "I wish I had a Z shape woman 她能放进这里 把这一排排满"
who would fit and make that line all the way across." 很明显他把整个世界都看成…
Clearly what he was doing was parsing the entire world 甚至包括一张泳装写真日历
even a swimsuit calendar into whether or not 他都看成能够改变形状 排出直直的一排
he could change shapes in order to make straight lines. 每个输入的信息都有脑波接收
Every input has the brainwaves receiving. 我们的大脑接收了太多的信息
And our brains receive too much input all the time 大脑就形成了这个模式
was being parsed through this one code. 我们从中发现了一样东西
Now what we find is that this is something 我称之为认知残象
that I call a cognitive afterimage. 认知残象就是
A cognitive afterimage is just... 如果你盯着太阳看一段时间 笨人做笨事
If you stare the sun for a really long time,you are stupid. 结果就是你暂时性地烧伤了你的视网膜
And what happens is you momentarily burn your retina. 你看东西时 就会看到一个蓝色或绿色的点
And you can see this blue or green dot in your vision 你看到哪里 它就跟到哪里
that goes around- 我在Kirkland宿舍看到太多照相机闪光灯
happens when a lot of flash photography goes off 就会出现这种情况
when I'm at Kirkland House. 出现这种情况后 很多时候都会这样子
There are a lot of times after when this can occur. 你的视网膜有一个残象
So what that is is the afterimage on your retina. 在认知层面上也有同样的现象
Well the same thing happens on the cognitive level as well. 我们的大脑能保存一个残象 在俄罗斯方块效应里
Our brains can actually retain an afterimage and in Tetris effect 学生会有一个认知残象
what was happening is the cognitive afterimage, 这个残象会停留 他们看这个世界时
that people were getting stuck with,was viewing the world 就会把世界上的事物看成
through the lens of parsing the world into ways 能够旋转变形 排进一条直线里
that can rotate shapes to make straight lines. 幽默的人也是这样
So too the individuals who are doing humor. 当人们看到某件事…
The people that can look at something like 例如Jon Stewart的编剧 或者"Steven Colbert报告"的编剧
writers for Jon Stewart,or the writers for Steven Colbert Report 当他们看报纸时
When they look at the newspaper, 当他们看到一件不悲不喜的事
when they see something that seems to be neutral 或者一件悲剧时 他们就开始让它变形
or even sad or tragic,they start to change the shape. 他们在脑海里把这件事旋转变形
They rotate the shape in their mind. 结果他们就会不停地寻找模式
As a result,they are looking for patterns all the time. 他们能从一件事上找到无限可能性
They are looking for multiple potentials within a status quo; 而不是只看到一张报纸
instead of just seeing a newspaper, 他们能从报纸上看到幽默
they see the possibility of humor that can come out of that. 你们能发现
And as you can find, 认知残象有时也会带来坏处
you can find that this can be a detriment sometimes as well. 你会在一个思维模式中出不来
You can get stuck in pattern 总是找幽默的东西
of looking for things that are humorous, 这样有时会有利于适应 但如果你是和人吵架
which can be adaptive or if you are in a fight, 你唯一能做的就是开玩笑 这是非常不利于适应的
and all you can do is making jokes - can be very mal-adaptive. 所以把幽默作为改变我们视角的东西还有一件事要注意的
So one last thing about humor as a transformative lens 在我们讲幽默的益处前 我们先来讲一个这个
before we talk about the benefits of humor is that 当我们笑某件事时
when we laugh at something, Peter Berger认为 我们会暂时性地
Peter Berger argues that we get a momentary, 暂时地中止了现实
a momentary suspension of reality - 我们能看到一些有别于现实的东西
that when we can see something that is alternative to reality, 它让我们知道
it teaches us that the status quo, 我们眼前的现实 是可塑的
the reality that we are seeing in front of us is both malleable 它不是唯一一种可能的现实
and is not the only possible reality, 现状是可以改变的
that the status quo absolutely can be changed. 所以幽默可以使我们变得更正念
So humor provides a way of being actually more mindful. Ellen Langer把正念定义为
Ellen Langer defines mindfulness "留心眼前的情景"
as "being present in the situation", 这样你就能留意到环境中的可能性
so that you can be aware of the potentials in that environment. 我给幽默下的定义和正念的定义
The definition that I give for humor is almost word for word 几乎一模一样
of what you see with mindfulness. 原因是 我认为
The reason is that I think 当你真的留心眼前的情景
when you are really present in the situation 当你以某种模式来看待世界时
and when you view the world through a specific pattern, 你实际上就是在用一种方式分析世界
what you are doing is you are actually parsing the world in a way 这种方式使得你能看到比环境本身更多的可能性
that actually shows more potentials than that environment. 所以Maslow认为我们会有高峰体验
So Maslow argues that we have these peak experiences 这时我们会暂时地披上了自我实现的披风
where for momentarily we put on the cloak of self-actualization. 当我们披上这件自我实现的披风时
When we put this cloak of self-actualization, 我们就能暂时地获得和看到
we momentarily gain and see 我们实际拥有的潜力
and glimpse the potentials we actually have. 所以我认为幽默也是这样
So too I think the humor is in the same vein. 我认为我们暂时地假装达成了自我实现
I think we momentarily take on self-actualization, 因为当我们假装有这个现实时
because while we are provided with the reality, 在这个现实里 行为后果
in which the consequences for actions 不会对我们产生负面影响
don't have a negative effect upon us, 我们会看到人生的真实和幸福
where we see life giving reality and happiness, 即使是我们处于一个别人觉得枯燥悲伤的境地
even in the situation that seems dry and sad to other people. 平凡就变得非凡
The ordinary becomes extraordinary, 这是Abraham Maslow所说的高峰体验的
which is one of the traits of peak experiences 一个特征
as Abraham Maslow did. 我觉得"办公室"就是一个很好的例子
I think the Office is a great example of this. 我有两段"办公室"的一分钟视频
I have two one minute clips from the Office 我想放给你们看
that I want to show you, 在这个片段里 他们可以把一些…
of where they are taking something that's just - 在办公室里的工作是很平凡的
you are in an office,doing something that is ordinary 他们能把平凡的变为非凡的
and take the ordinary and make it extraordinary. 班上有多少同学看"办公室"?
How many people are there watch the Office? 有多少同学不看?
How many people are there not watch the Office? Wow. 有多少同学是不幽默的?
How many people are not funny? 有些人没举手 我知道不止这么少
Some of you are not raising your hands -I know that's not true. 好的
OK.So,good. 有多少同学认为自己的幽默感
How many people in here think they are above, 是在中上水平的?举起手来
having them above the average sense of humor? Raise your hand. 有多少同学
How many people 认为自己的幽默感是中下水平的?
think they are a below average sense of the humor? 刚才没举手的那些都是了
By the way this would be the rest of you. 我不知道你们还想我举出什么水平来让你们选
I don't know what other option you've been waiting for. 有多少人认为自己正好处于中等水平的?
How many people think you are exactly average? 幽默的同学 好的
The funny people.All right. 我们来看这两段视频
So let's watch these two clips 来看看如何把平凡变为非凡
and we'll watch how the ordinary becomes extraordinary. 片段：办公室 第三季 15集
[CLIP: THE OFFICE Season 3 - Episode 15 "Phyllis' Wedding"] 糟了 又丢了一个文件 又要重启了
Jim: Damn,lost another file.Going to have to reboot.Again. Dwight 你想吃薄荷糖吗?
Hey,Dwight,do you want an Altoid? 你说呢?
Dwight: What do you think? 上学时 我们学过一个故事 说有个科学家
Jim: In school,we learned about this scientist 训练狗一听到铃声就流口水
who trained dogs to salivate at the sound of a bell 方法就是每次响铃时都给东西它们吃
by feeding them whenever a bell rang. 过去几周
For the last couple of weeks 我在做一个类似的实验
I've been conducting a similar experiment. Dwight 想吃薄荷糖吗?
Jim: Dwight,want an Altoid? 好的
Dwight: Okay. 吃薄荷糖吗?
Jim: Altoid? 好的
Dwight: Sure. 要薄荷糖吗 Dwight?
Jim: Mint,Dwight? Inbwit的吗?好的
Dwight: Inbwit? Yes. 你在干什么?
Jim: What are you doing? 我…
Dwight: I... 什么?
Jim: What? 我不知道 我突然嘴巴很臭
Dwight: I don't know.My mouth tastes so bad all of a sudden. 还有一个
Shawn Achor:There is one more. 片段：办公室 第二季 21集
[CLIP: THE OFFICE – Season 2 Episode 21 Conflict Resolution] Dwight 你说
Michael: So Dwight,in your own words - "有人用蜡笔换走了我所有的钢笔和铅笔
"Someone replaced all my pens and pencils with crayons, 我怀疑是Jim Halpert
I suspect Jim Halpert. 所有人都叫了我一整天的Dwanye
Everyone has called me Dwanye all day. 我觉得是Jim Halpert给钱他们 叫他们这么做的"
I think Jim Halpert paid them to." 是的 每个五美元 花得很值
Jim: YES! 5 bucks each,and it was totally worth it. "到下班时
Michael: "By the end of the day, 我的办公桌离复印机近了两英尺"
my desk was about two feet closer to the copier." 是的
Jim: Yeah, 每次他上洗手间 我就移动一英寸
I just moved it an inch every time he went to the bathroom. 我那天一整天只干了这件事
And that's how I spent my entire day that day. "每次我输入我的名字 都会变成'尿布'"
Michael: "Every time I typed my name it said 'diapers'." 用一个简单的宏就行了
Jim: Just a simple macro. "今天早上
Michael: "This morning, 我拿电话时 撞到了自己的头"
I knocked myself in the head with the phone." 这个花了我不少时间
Jim: That actually took awhile. 我要一次放一个硬币进他的电话听筒
I had to put more and more nickels into his handset, 等他习惯了那个重量以后
til he got used to the weight, 我就把全部硬币都拿出来
and then I just ... took them all out. Jim用Dwight来做这些实验
Shawn:So just as Jim performs some of his experiments on Dwight, 这些实验也告诉了我们
so too these experiments are gonna reveal 幽默对我们有多大的积极影响
how much humor actually has a positive effect upon us. 我们不但会看"办公室"
Not only when we are watching the Office, 我们还会选择与幽默的人为伴
but when we ourselves choose to surround ourselves with people 或者让自己变得幽默
that are funny or decide to be funny ourselves. 为了弄明白这点 我要讲两个身体部位
In order to understand this,there are two parts of human body. 写下来 只有两个
Write that down.Only two parts. 交感神经系统
The sympathetic nervous system 和副交感神经系统
and the parasympathetic nervous system. 副字拼作para 副交感神经系统
P-A-R-A: the parasympathetic nervous system. 交感神经系统是我们身体里
The sympathetic nervous system is the part of the body 一个负责释放化学物质进我们身体里
that's responsible for dropping chemicals into your body 让你准备作出或战或逃反应的系统
that prepare you for fight or flight. 它能暂时地让你当一回超人
It momentarily makes you super human. 你变强了 你变快了
You are stronger; you are faster; 你忍耐力变强了 你更有活力了
you have more endurance; you have more energy. 但问题是 一直当这样的超人的话
Now the problem with being super human all the time 是有分解代谢作用的
and I should know is that it's catabolic, 当你把这些化学物释放到你的身体时
is that when you dump these chemicals into your body 虽然你的身体暂时变强壮了
while your body becomes stronger momentarily, 但其实它在损害你身体里的所有器官
it actually is tearing down every single organ in your body. 压力是有影响的 它会劳损所有组织
Stress has its effect where it actually wears out every tissue, 你体内的活组织
living tissue in your body. 幸好 不是只有这么一个系统
Now that's not the end of the story fortunately, 因为我们不会变得越来越兴奋
because we don't just get more and more excited - 我们的心跳不会一直飙升 直到心脏爆炸
our heart rate keeps increasing until we just explode. 因为我们中枢神经系统里还有另一部分
Because we have the other part of our central nervous system, 叫做副交感神经系统
called the parasympathetic nervous system. 副交感神经系统
The parasympathetic nervous system 负责让我们的身体冷静下来
is responsible for calming the body down, 它负责减慢我们的呼吸率 心跳率
for slowing our breath rate,for slowing our heart rate. 真正让我们恢复过来的就是它
It's the part that actually causes rejuvenation. 当我们能量水平没有飙升时
And while we don't feel the spike in our energy levels, 我们的能量就能维持更长时间
we have a longer sustained period of energy, 因为这个系统会不断地激活
because we are constantly revitalizing, 修复 并注入更多的活力
repairing,and creating more energy in and of itself. 很有帮助的图表
Helpful drawing. 这个称之为…
So what does this call is a - 有人称之为黑道家族效应
somebody calls it the Soprano Effect. 其实只有我称之为黑道家族效应
I call it the Soprano Effect - no one else calls that. 但我们还是会考
But we'll test on it anyway. 黑道家族效应
So the Soprano Effect 是指长期地激活交感神经系统
is the chronic activation of the sympathetic nervous system. 很多哈佛学生 包括我自己都会这么做
And this is what a lot of Harvard students,including myself do, 我们准备为考试复习时
is that when we are about go prepare for a test 或者处理生活中某些事情时
or dealing with anything in our lives, 我听到很多人在考试前会说
I hear so many people before the test say, "这次考试我一定不会及格了
"I'm totally gonna fail this test. 我压根就没准备好
I'm not ready for this test at all. 我一定会不及格了"
I'm totally gonna fail this test." 或者他们心里想
Or they say themselves, "我太忙了 我压力太大了"
"Oh,I'm so busy.I'm so busy.I'm so stressed." 当他们这么想时
And when they do that, 他们其实是把事情都留到最后一刻才做
what they are doing is we are leaving everything for last minute, 就像Tal说的拖延症
like Tal was talking about procrastination. 结果是
The resulting effect is that 你的能量会短暂地飙升
you get that momentary burst of energy, 因为你的交感神经系统被激活了
because your sympathetic nervous system is activating. 所以我们习惯了这么做
So we get used to that. 我们会上瘾地用
We get addicted to using that 交感神经系统刺激我们的能量
sympathetic nervous system for that boost. 我们认为
And we think that 能量可能让我们完成工作
energy was actually gonna allow us to accomplish things. Tony Soprano不是现实人物 是HBO剧集里的
Tony Soprano is in a non-reality but on the HBO series, 黑帮老大
is a mob boss. 这个电视剧的一个主旨就是
And he - the part of the point of the series is that 他要去接受心理治疗
he had to go to therapy which is not necessarily 对于一个恶贯满盈的黑帮老大 没必要这样做
something you want to do as a nefarious crime boss. 他要去看心理医生 因为他惊恐症发作
And he had to go to therapy because he was having panic attacks. 他的身体停止运作 因为他长期激活
His body was shutting down,because he was responding to the fact 他的交感神经系统 所以就发作了
that he was constantly activating his sympathetic nervous system, 不管是他当黑帮老大时做种种犯法的事
whether be his nefarious actions as a crime lord boss - 黑帮老大
crime lord bo... 黑帮老大 前面加一连串的形容词
Whatever – crime lord boss and a couple of adjectives. 还是平常和他家人的生活
Or living with his family, 过一个正常的生活 他住在新泽西
trying to live a normal life,living in New Jersey which - 住在新泽西的压力就更大了
living in New Jersey will be even more stressful. 因此 他的身体停止运作
And as a result of this,his body was just shutting down. 所以原因之一就是
And,so part of what was happening - 他长期激活他的交感神经系统
he was chronically activating his sympathetic nervous system. 哈佛的学生也是这样
So the same thing that happens with Harvard students 经常我们都会利用这种激活
is that often times when we would decide to use that activation, 我们会长期激活我们的交感神经系统
that chronic activation of our sympathetic nervous system 因此我们就会耗损我们的身体
and as a result we wear down our bodies. 我们的身体就会开始停止运作
And our bodies actually begin to shut down. 幸好 我们还有救星
Fortunately that's not the end of the story. 对抗黑道家族效应的最佳缓冲剂是幽默
The greatest buffer against the Soprano Effect is humor. 原因是 幽默
And the reason is that humor, 就像正念和冥想
just like mindfulness and meditation, 它能激活副交感神经系统
activate the parasympathetic nervous system. 因此 非凡的事就发生了
And as a result of that,several extraordinary things happen. 很让人惊讶的是
It's amazing that 我们觉得大笑是一件奢侈的事
laughter, something we consider to be just a luxury, 我们有时间的时候才会大笑
something that we do just in our free time 我们没事可做时才会大笑
as if we have nothing else to do 但它对我们的生活却有如此巨大的影响
has such a dramatic effect upon our lives. 首先 笑本身既是一种药也是一种运动
First of all,laughter itself is both medicine and exercise. 如果你喜欢Jack Candy和"周六夜现场"的"深层思考"小品
If you like Jack Candy and deep thoughts from Saturday Night Live 我引用几句话给大家听 其中有一句是
there is some quote about - there is something like, "我爸爸总是说 笑是最好的药
"as my father always said,the laughter is the best medicine. 可能这就是为什么我们几个有家人死于肺结核"
That's probably why several of us died of tuberculosis," 其实不是很好笑 但我还是决定说这句
which is not all that funny,but I decided to go for it anyway. 笑也是一种运动 每次你笑
And so it's also a form of exercise that every time you laugh, 如果你想在这节课上笑
if you've chosen to laugh at some point during this lecture, 或者你想下课后才笑
or if you are planning on laughing after the lecture, 你笑时 你的身体就在做大量运动
what happens is your body is actually doing a lot of exercise. 我已经说过
I already told you 你笑时 身体有多少块肌肉在伸缩
how many muscles you actually contract in your body. 我们发现 只要笑10到15分钟
Well it turns out just 10 to 15 minutes of laughing, 笑10到15分钟
10 to 15 minutes of laughing actually 所消耗的卡路里
is enough to burn the amount of calories 就相等于一块中等大小的巧克力 非常棒
of a medium size block of chocolate,which is pretty good. 有些人的报告说 只要笑几分钟
Also some people report just minute of laughing 就足够让他们的心率飙升到
is enough to get their heart rate up 比在划式练力机上做15分钟运动还要高
more than 15 minutes of rowing machine exercise. 这就要看你划的是什么了
It depends on what you actually are rowing at the time. 他们还发现它能导致…非常厉害的是
They also find that it causes - this is amazing,amazing that 幽默还能够在化学层面上起作用
humor will do something like this at the chemical level - 它能增加我们体内的T细胞
that it actually increases our T-cells in our body 从而加强我们的免疫系统
which actually strengthen our immune system; 增加我们的γ-干扰素
increasing our Gamma-interferon, 它是一种抵抗疾病的蛋白质
which is the disease fighting protein 还会增加我们的B细胞
as well as increasing our B-cells B细胞负责生成抗体
which are responsible for creating antibodies 加强我们身体抵抗疾病的能力
to actually prepare our body to defend against disease. 所以幽默真的能帮我们更好地对抗现实
The humor is actually making us better defended against reality, 对吧
right? 它真的能加强我们的身体 帮助我们
It's actually preparing our body to defend itself 对抗外部世界
against the outside world. 这就是幽默的作用之一
It's partly the way that it exists, 它能够影响黑道家族效应的原因之一
and part of the reason that affects the Soprano Effect 就是像Sultanoff这样的研究人员发现的那样
is that researchers like Sultanoff found that 笑能降低我们体内的
laughter decreases the amount of serum cortisol 血清皮质醇
that occurs in our body. 当我们感受到压力时 就会释放皮质醇
Cortisol is released when we have a stress response. 应激反应…
That stress response 如果我做了某些事 让你感到有压力了
if I cause you to be stressful for whatever reason, 你的皮质醇水平就会上升
and your cortisol levels begin to go up; 如果你在这时候引人发笑
if you cause somebody to laugh midway during that experience, 他们的皮质醇水平就会降低
their cortisol levels actually decrease again; 也就是说在他们感受到压力时
that if they are going through a stressful event, 大笑起来
laughing in the midst 在压力中笑起来 能够使他们
and going through that event will actually allow them 降低压力带来的消积影响
to not have all the negative effects of stress, 大家回忆一下 压力会耗损我的身体
which–remember–tear down every organ in your body. 除此以外 幽默还能给我们的心理和生理
In addition,there is a ton of mental and physical benefits 累积大量的益处
that accrue because of this. 首先 他们发现
First of all,they find that 即使是一点点的幽默 就能提高我们的免疫系统
even small doses of humor actually increase our immune system. 他们的研究方法是
So what they did 他们找来一些患有支气管哮喘病的人
is they brought in people who had bronchial asthma. 让他们接触尘螨
And they exposed them to the dust mite 这些病人对尘螨是极度过敏的
which they are highly allergic to - 这样是为了让他们产生过敏反应
just make sure that they had those responses. 我很肯定这群研究人员就是
Pretty sure that these were the same people 上次做那个吐根怀孕研究的那些人
that did the ipecac pregnancy studies that 我们在这门课上讲过那个研究 或者是那个
we talked about earlier on in the course or the learned helpless- 一次又一次地电击狗 习得无助感实验的那群研究员
that's the one who kept shocking the dogs over and over again. 在这个支气管哮喘实验中
So in this case for the bronchial asthma, 他们让这些病人接触尘螨 有致命危险的
they exposed them to this dust mite which,umm,potentially fatal 他们只让他们接触一点点
And then they had them go away for a little, 但他们至少要保证数量要足以
but they wanted to make sure that 让所有病人都对尘螨产生过敏反应
everyone had an effect based upon this dust mite. 然后他们找这些人回来做实验
Then they had the people come back to the experiment 看来这些人是真的学不精的
which shows how smart these people are. 这些患有支气管哮喘的病人
And these people with bronchial asthma 回来做同一个实验
came back to the same experiment. 有一半人在接触尘螨之前
And half of them before they were exposed to the dust mite again 先听一个笑话
were just told a joke – 我不知道他们听了什么笑话
I don't know what joke they were told but it had to be - 反正他们笑了
they had actually to laugh at it. 然后另一组是对照组
And the other group was a neutral group, 他们只是看了或听了一个很普通的故事
one that they just had to watch or listen to a neutral story. 这些故事不会减轻
And that shouldn't have any effect 支气管哮喘患者对尘螨的过敏反应
upon the way a dust mite affects somebody with bronchial asthma. 他们发现
But what they found was that people that 数据上表明 那些先听过一个笑话的人
have been told a single joke to beforehand show statistically 哮喘病发作的数量
significantly smaller amounts of flare-up due, 要少很多
flare-up in terms of their asthma. 我很难想象…
I can't imagine - 我想说一个好笑的笑话 好让你们讲给别人听
I was trying to think of funny jokes you could tell people. 但我想不出来
I couldn't come up with anything. 你们想的笑话可能都比我想的这个要好笑
You probably will think of something better than this, 但我想…算了 我不说这个笑话
but I think like.. No,actually I'm not gonna go for that. 不说了 不好笑的
Never mind.It wasn't funny. 我本来想说一个关于哮喘病的"敲门"玩笑
I was going to do a knock-knock joke about bronchial asthma, 但我发现不好笑
but it isn't funny. 我们还发现 幽默还能提高忍痛度
So we also find humor also increases pain tolerance. 有一群德国研究人员
So there's a group of German researchers – 除了德国研究人员还会有谁
of course they would be German researchers - 他们找人来
to find and put individuals, 找参与者来参加这个研究
the participants to sign up for this study, 把他们的手放在冰冷的冰水里
put their hands in ice cold ice water. 这是心理学以及医学界中
Now this is a standard way in psychology 测试一个人的忍痛度的标准做法
and medical experience of testing somebody's pain tolerance. 因为这个测试不会对人造成永久伤害
Because there's usually no lasting effect upon individuals 只会加重他们的冻疮
except for debilitating frost-bite. 他们发现
So what they find is that 他们把手放进冰水桶里
they keep their hands in frozen bucket of ice water, 在这期间
and during this period - 你的手放得越久 你的忍痛度就越高
so the longer you keep it in,the better your pain tolerance is. 你可以和朋友试试 这是一个很好的派对游戏
Try with your friends.This is a great party trick. 你可以
And one of the things you can do 让一个人看好笑的视频
is you can have one person watch a funny video, 一个人看不悲不喜的视频
one person watch a neutral video, 一个人看悲伤的视频 这时候他们的手都放在冰水里
and one person watch sad video while they are doing this. 他们发现
And what they found was that the group 看幽默视频的那一组
that was watching the humor video 在数据上来看
could keep their hand in the ice bucket 手放在冰桶里的时间要比其他组长很多
for statistically significantly longer than the other groups, 比其他组的人长很多
the other groups of people, 这意味着 如果你觉得幽默好笑
which means that if you find humor funny, 你可能没有别人聪明
you are probably not as smart as other people 但你能把手放在冰桶里
and you can keep your hand in the ice bucket 更久
for longer periods of time. 但这个研究还有一个惊人发现
But this is amazing.This is amazing. 幽默的影响不仅现出在实验过程中
It wasn't just during experiment that they had found this effect. 他们在这些人看完幽默视频后20分钟
They even decided to test people 20 minutes 再对他们进行测试
after they were exposed to humor. 看完幽默视频20分钟后
20 minutes after they were exposed to humor - 还能有同样的效果 即使是看了幽默视频
the same effect occurred that there was a 20 minute 20分钟后 幽默还能有一个后效应
after effect of watching something 提高你的忍痛度
that was humorous in terms of your pain tolerance. 这个结果
Now this has a lot to do 给了人们很多启示
and a lot of implications thus for people 那些日常生活中因为患有疾病
that are experiencing chronic fatigue or chronic pain 而有慢性疲劳 或者慢性痛的人
in their own lives due to diseases, 幽默可以减轻他们的疲劳或疼痛
and the way which humor itself could play a role in that. 他们还发现在你狂吃一顿后
They also found that after you eat a large meal, 如果你有II型糖尿病 而你狂吃了一顿
that if you have type 2 diabetes and you eat a large meal, 如果你吃完后
that if you are watching something 看了一些好笑的东西 而不是一些平平淡淡的东西
that's humorous afterwards as opposed to something that's neutral 令人惊讶地 你的血糖会
surprisingly your blood sugar actually was much lower 比那些吃了同样多的人 低很多
than the group that have eaten the same exactly meal, 这种效果太惊人了
which is amazing that it's occurring. 最后 他们还发现幽默能减少压力
And finally they found it decreases stress 增加癌症的缓解率
and increases remission rates in terms of cancer. 例如 有一个关于睾丸癌的研究
For example one of the studies was on testicular cancer. 研究人员发现 患者
And they found that these individuals 如果能笑出来
once they can find a way of laughing and coping, 能用笑作为他们的心理应付机制
using laughter as coping mechanism,the individual 那些用笑来作为心理应会机制的患者
that found laughter as a coping mechanism versus those 比起那些没有这样做的患者 他们的缓解有所提高
that did not showed increased levels of remission. 甚至
In fact their symptoms 他们的症状也减少了
that they are experiencing actually decrease. 他们的忍痛度提高了
And they had higher levels of pain tolerance and decreased stress 伴随这些病痛而来的压力也减少了
because of the infliction that they were feeling. 因此
Now as a result of this, 我们看到幽默真的有很多惊人的益处
we've seen some pretty remarkable things about humor. 我们看到它能改变我们的身体化学
I mean we've seen the ways in which it changes our body chemistry 改变我们的免疫系统
it changes the way our immune system actually fights 帮助我们对抗疾病
and defends against these things, 它改善我们的压力水平
it changes our stress levels, 改善我们身体对尘螨的反应
it changes the way that our body responds to dust mite 对食物的反应 对癌症的反应
and to food and to testicular cancer. 幽默从方方面面
There are a lot of different ways that 影响我们 效果非常惊人
humor actually has an effect upon us,which is remarkable. 我还想谈谈幽默的社会影响
But also I want to talk about the social effects of humor as well 如果你是第一天来这里上学的
Now if you are here on the very first day of class, 我要跟你说几个数据
I told you these statistics. 我只是想提醒大家几个数据
But I just want to remind you about these statistics, 去年我们在哈佛学生中做了一个调查
that last year when we tested the Harvard students, 我们发现
we found that 哈佛学生的谈恋爱的次数
the average number of romantic relationships at Harvard 少于一次
was less than one. 平均的性伴侣人数在0到0.5之间
And the average number of sexual partners was between 0 and .5, 用科学数据给二垒定了量
the scientific equivalent of second base. 我们还发现你们当中有24%的同学不知道
And we also found that 24% of you are currently unaware 自己是不是在谈恋爱
if you are involved in a romantic relationship. 我想跟大家说这几个数据
Now I just remind you about this, 是因为我觉得
because I think that this is one of the areas 幽默能给我们哈佛学生在恋情中带来很大帮助
where humor could actually do us a lot of good at Harvard. 我还在哈佛教一门叫人类性欲的课
So I taught for human sexuality at Harvard as well, 那是一门很尴尬的课
which is an awkward class. 有多少同学上了人类性欲?只有一个
How many people took human sexuality? Just one. 你好 真尴尬
Hello.This is awkward. 其中…
So one of the things, 我说它尴尬的原因是
the reason why it's so awkward is the very first paper that 学生要写的第一篇论文 是一篇十页的
the students had to write was ten page paper 讲自己第一次性行为的论文
on their first sexual encounter, 我要评阅这些论文
which I then had to grade. 非常尴尬
That's really awkward. 我还要写评论
And I had to make comments like "不 不可能这样" 或者说
"no,there's no way that happened,"or "写这篇论文的时间要比你做爱的时间长很多"
"this paper took a lot longer to write than you've ever had sex." 有很多尴尬的事
There's a lot of awkwardness that could possibly... 但是…
But one of the things 最尴尬的一次是
that was most awkward about this is that they, 有一节课
for one of the sections 他们想我给哈佛学生看看安全套是什么样的
they wanted us to show condoms to the Harvard students, 因为数据表明 你们哈佛学生很可能
because well of the statistics that just showed chances 连安全套或者其他与性有关的东西都没见过
are you haven't seen a condom or anything to rhyme sex. 他们发现这个现象
And so what they found is that, 他们想我在一节课上分发安全套
they wanted us to give these condoms out in sections 这样大家都能拿一个看看
so everyone could see one. 我那天要教四个班
And so I was teaching four sections for this class 于是我把80个安全套塞进背包的前袋
so I stuffed 80 condoms into the front pouch of my backpack. 当时我坐在星巴克里 星巴克是我的咖啡店兼办公室
And I was sitting at Starbucks,which is my coffice. 我整天都坐在那里 一天只需交1.49美元的租金
And I spent all day there,rented out a dollar 49 a day. 我发现我坐在那里时
And I find that while I was sitting there - 我不知道我为什么很喜欢说"发现"
I don't why I keep saying that - "find". 我当时坐在那里 旁边坐了一个女孩
While I was sitting there,there is this girl sitting next to me. 这时她转过身 跟我说
And at one point she turned to me and she said, "你能借支笔给我吗?"
"Do you have a pen that I can borrow?" 我说"当然能 当然能借支笔给你"
And I said,"Oh,absolutely! I can definitely get you a pen!" 然后我完全忘了
And then I was totally forgetting. 我打开我的背包
And I opened up my backpack 80只安全套夺包而出 掉到了她身上
and 80 condoms exploded all over her, 她的桌子上 她脚下的地板上满是安全套
all over her table,all over the floor underneath her. 我花了四分钟才捡完她脚下的安全套
It took me like 4 minutes to pick all the condoms underneath her. 我还递了一个给她
I offered her one. 她不想要安全套 也不想要我的笔
She didn't want that or my pen. 研究这种第一次相遇的研究
But research that's done on first encounters like this 得到非常惊人的发现
has been pretty remarkable. Fraley做了一些研究
Fraley did some research 他会找一些人来…有个知识点忘了讲
where you bring people into - forgot something. 我们等一下再讲
We'll come back. Fraley发现 如果你把实验参与者带到一个房间
Fraley found that if you bring people into a room,participants, 他们互不认识 你让他们做一个合作任务
and they are strangers,and you have them do cooperative task. 你让他们做一个合作任务
You have them do a cooperative task. 有个助教很喜欢我标题中的"吸引与感情"这两个词
One of TF love the attraction and bondage on my titles. 我觉得很好笑 我想不起要讲什么了
I just think it's funny.So I totally lost my train of thoughts. 我讲另一个内容吧 镜像神经元
I'll talk about mirror neurons instead. 镜像神经元非常厉害 因为我刚才忘了讲这个
Mirror neurons are awesome.Cause I skipped this a minute ago. 镜像神经元 我们以前不知道大脑里有这个
Mirror neurons - we didn't even know we had it in brain, 直到十年前才知道
in the human brain until about ten years ago, 或能还不到十年
or actually about even less than that. 我们那时才发现它们的存在
Then we began to become aware of them . 它们的作用就是 如果有人对你笑
But there's a part that if somebody smiles at you, 通常你一定也会对他们笑
you almost have to smile back at them. 原因是 因为你大脑有个部位
And the reason is because there's part of your brain 在你笑时 亮起来了
is lighting up as you are smiling as well, 就好像我站在讲台上 有个人走过来
just as if I was standing on stage as somebody came over 狠狠地把我绊倒 大家都会惊呼
and tackled me really hard,and everyone goes,"Ooh." 你们会觉得很愤怒
You know like feeling mad – you are actually, 你们有大脑会亮起来 那些镜像神经元会亮起来
your brain is lighting up those mirror neurons are lighting up, 就好像你也被绊倒了一样
as if you just got tackled as well, 这也是为什么人们看橄榄球比赛时会发生痛苦的叫声
which is reason why people groan at football games 即使他们离体育场有2000英里远
even if they are 2000 miles away from the actual stadium. 我们天生会对别人有移情作用
We are actually literally hardwired for empathy for other people. 因此 幽默非常具有传染性
As a result of that,humor is extremely contagious, 因为当我们看到别人笑时
because these mirror neurons begin to activate 我们的镜像神经元就会激活
when we see other people laughing. 幽默之所以能帮助我们的社交 是因为
Now the reason why this is helpful is because of the attraction 第一次相遇时 它能制造吸引力
that it causes in these first situations. 他们发现 他们找来互不认识的参与者
So what they found is they bring in strangers, 让他们玩一个竞赛游戏
have them play a competitive game. 之后让他们评价对方的吸引力
Afterwards you have them rank the attractiveness and 以及他们对比赛对手产生了多少感情
how closely they feel bonded to the person they are working with. 通常他们的吸引力和感情都很低
And usually the levels of attraction and bondage were pretty low. 中间那组
For the middle group, 你找人来合作完成一个任务
you have somebody come in and you have them do a cooperative task 跟Tal这个学期讲过的
This is similar to the Wall Street and community games studies 华尔街和社区运动会的研究很相似
that Tal was talking about earlier on this semester. 在这个实验里 如果是合作完成任务
And this experiment - when you have a cooperative task, 参与者的吸引力 两个人的吸引力
people's attractiveness,the ratings of attraction 和感情都上升了
and bondage for both of the individuals go up. 但如果你让参与者做
But if you have that individual do 一件很尴尬的事 例如玩扭扭乐
an extremely awkward task together,like play Twister, 或者让人走进房间
or you have somebody come into the room 实验参与者所在的房间
that this experimenters are in, 叫他们不小心地把水倒到其中一个参与者身上
and ask them accidently pour water on one of the participants, 告诉他们 他们笨手笨脚的 然后离开房间
telling them that they are awkward and leaving the room, 让他们笑这件事 这些人…
allowing them to laugh about it,those individuals - 因为这个过程中发生了幽默的事
because there is something humorous that is going on - 所以给对方评的吸引力分数是最高的
showed the highest ratings of other persons being attractive, 而且感情也是最深的
and showed the highest levels of bondage. 所以 下次如果你坐在酒吧里
Now what this means is next time you are sitting at a bar, 你不要试图去跟那个人比个高低
you shouldn't attempt to do some sort of a competitive 或者跟那个人合作
or a cooperative task with that individual, 你可以请他们玩扭扭乐
you should either suggest to play Twister 或者把酒倒在他们身上 告诉他们 他们有多笨手笨脚
or pour your drink on them and tell them how awkward they are. 这个诡计
That witty repertoire 一定能增加你们的感情
is definitely going to increase your bondage. 他们发现在研究幽默这个课题时
So what they find is dating is an interesting case 约会是一个很有趣的研究对象
when it comes to humor, 尤其是研究它的社会因素
especially in terms of the social elements. 我们知道人们是会
So we know that there are certain things that 被某些身体特征吸引的
people are attracted to in the physical domain, 但为什么有些人会选择幽默的人
but there should be no evolutionary advantage at all – right? – 幽默应该不是一种进化优势 对吧?
to why somebody would pick somebody who is humorous,right? Yeah. 这班上有多少同学是不会
How many people in the room would not date somebody 和赚不了多少钱的人约会的?
if they didn't make enough money? 举起手来 好的
Just raise your hand.OK. 很好 有几个诚实的人
Good.A couple of honest people. 从进化的角度来看 这个答案是正确的
Evolutionarily,that's the correct answer. 但很少人举起手
But,so,but very few of you. 那些发现约会对象没有幽默感以后
Now raise your hand if you would not date somebody 就不和他们约会的同学 请举起手来
because you found out they had no sense of humor at all? 几乎所有人都举了
Almost everyone - 也许是因为这个答案更为社会所接受
maybe that's just more socially acceptable answer to do 这样可能会把研究都搞砸了
and that might screw the study itself. 事实是
But the fact is 我认为很多人都没有说谎 我们确实想要性感的…
I think a lot of us are being honest that we really want sexual, 我们确实想要有幽默感的伴侣 好的
we really want sense of humor to be part of our mate.Good. 我还会一次又一次地口误
You know that it's just gonna happen now over and over again. 我们发现在这些人身上
So what we find in these individuals is that 如果你在野外遇到危险 例如遇到狮子
if you are faced with a threat in the wild like a lion, 你想打赢它 或者逃跑
you know,you want to be able to fight it or flee. 你不会想说那个敲门笑话 对吧?
You don't want to tell the knock-knock joke,right? 幽默并不能增加你
That doesn't increase your slight of adaptivity 对自然选择的适应性 对吧?
of natural selection,right? 但我们发现 人们似乎都很喜欢幽默
But what we find is people seem to absolutely favor this. 不同性别的幽默是不同的
And there's some difference in terms of genders, 科学家和心理学家认为
part of what scientists and psychologists believe 幽默是表示认知能力良好的一个信号
is that humor is a signal of cognitive fitness, 就像我们喜欢别人有良好的体格一样
that just like we want physical fitness in somebody else, 我们也喜欢良好的认知能力
so too we want cognitive fitness. 我们喜欢能用不同视角看世界的幽默之人
We want somebody humorous to view the world from different lenses 它不仅能极大地影响
It actually has a dramatic effect upon not only the way that 他们看待世界的方式
they can deal with reality 还会影响他们帮助你应付现实的方式
but the way they can help you deal with reality. 我们刚才所说的这些
All those benefits we just talked about 幽默对生理的益处 都会出现在
in terms of the physical benefits of humor are all garnered 那些与笑的人为伴
by people that are surrounded by people that are laughing 或者与开玩笑的人为伴的人身上
or they are making the jokes themselves. 如果你与幽默的人为伴
So if you are around somebody that is funny, 你就能得到所有这些益处
you get all those positive benefits as well. 除此以外 他们还发现了几个有趣的差别
In addition,they found a couple of interesting differences - 男人与女人的差别
the differences between men and women 这是由一个叫Bressler研究员发现的
by a guy named or a woman named Bressler. 我不知道这个人是男还是女的
I'm not sure which one. Bressler发现男女的差别是
The differences between men women by Bressler is that 他们发现男女所寻求的幽默
they found there's difference in terms of 是有差别的
what people are actually looking for. 他们观察在酒吧里调情的人
And they just check people flirting at bar. 在这个实验里 他们看
So the experiment was they watch people 那些在酒吧里调情的人 很怪
while they are flirting at the bar - this is just creepy. 每次女人或男人笑时
And what they would do is they make tick marks 他们就会打一个勾
every time the female or the male would laugh. 然后 他们会走过去
And then afterwards they would go up 给这两个陌生男女一份报告
and give these two strangers a report 让他们填完这份报告
and ask them to fill out a report 并且在他们离开前 互换报告
and exchange before they go somewhere else. 他们发现女人笑的次数
And so what they found is that the number of laughs 与女人喜欢男人的的程度成正比
by the female correlated with how much the female like the male 反过来也是
and that in exchange. 他们还发现 女人笑的次数
They also found out that the number of laughs by the female 与男人喜欢她的程度成正比
correlated with how much the male liked her. 他们还发现 男人的笑
What they found is the male's laughter had absolutely no effect 对两个人的吸引力都没有任何影响
whatsoever upon the attractiveness of either people. 似乎这…
So it seems like and this would be - 这只是从总体来看 不是每个人都会这样
this is an aggregate but not necessarily case for everyone. 大家从中看到
Part of what you are seeing 一个趋势 有些人似乎是说笑话的人
is in trends which some people seem to be the joke generator, 有些人似乎是听笑话的人
as some people seem to be the joke receivers. 这给了我们一个很有趣的想法
And I think it's interesting to think about 在这两者当中 你会选择当哪一个
where you lie in that match in terms of which one 当你想用你的幽默风格来吸引对方时
you are actually attempting to do with your own humor style. 我们还发现
We also find that it's extremely important 在婚姻谈判中 幽默很重要的
in terms of the negotiations in marriage, 基本上和上面那个一样
which are usually just basically the same thing. John Gottman发现…John Gottman就是那个
John Gottman found that - John Gottman is the guy, 恋爱专家 他做了四骑士实验
this relationship expert who did the Four Horsemen - 我们在之前讲爱情的课上就已经讲过了
we talked about it earlier in the relationship section. 他说消除冲突的最佳方法
He says that the greatest way to defuse a conflict 如果在谈判中出现冲突 或者婚姻出现问题时
that is occurring in a negotiation or in a marriage problem, 最佳方法就是换一个角度 把幽默
the greatest solution is to find a way to use humor 当作应付机制
as a coping mechanism. 要回答幽默在…当你出现应激反应
To answer that humor in - while you are feeling stress response 或者说像我之前说的那个 皮质醇被释放出来
or the release of cortisol that I talked about. 即使John Gottman也把幽默视为
Even John Gottman views the humor 达到效果的最重要方法
as one of the most important ways of effectiveness. 这个…这个很有趣
This is the... This is just interesting 但和我现在讲的内容没什么关系
but not related to what I'm talking about. 当我们叫一个大学男生想着爱时
This is the –this is what brain looks like with the, 他的大脑就是这样子的
part of the brain activated most 大脑有些地方亮起来了
when a college male student is thinking about love. 很漂亮
It's beautiful. 如果你叫他们想着性 剩下的地方都会亮起来
The rest lights up when you ask them to think about sex. 幽默作为一种治疗手段 我简单地讲一下这点
Humor as therapy - I'm just talk about this really quickly, 因为我想等一下讲幽默的最强大功效
because I want to get onto the most powerful part of humor. Pennebaker的研究
Pennebaker's studies 我们之前讲写日记的时候讲过
which we talked about earlier about journaling said that 当你开始写日记时
as you start to journal, 你的神经活动水平会出现峰值
you see a spike in your neural activity levels. 其实你写日记的时候 感受到的压力会更大
We actually feel more stress when you are journaling, 但写完后 就会回落到一个低很多的水平
but then afterwards,deep down to a lower restate. 幽默也是一样
The same is true with humor.Humor- 因为幽默过界了 它暂时增加了我们的压力
because it crosses the line also increases our stress momentarily 但能让我们回落到
but allow us to return back down to a state 一个更低的水平
that is below or a lower restate, 因为它激活了我们的副交感神经系统
because it activate our parasympathetic nervous system. 因此
As a result of that, 在一个心理治疗中
humor can be a very effective way for us to use, 幽默是我们可以利用的有效工具
to deal with therapeutic situations. 印度有些大笑互助组就是用这个方法
Some of the ways that people do it are laughing groups in India, 他们会让人围成一圈
where they had people get in a circle 把头放到另一个人的腹部上
and put their heads on each other's stomachs. 一个人开始叫"哈" 另一个人也叫"哈"
And one person starts to go "Ha!" And another person go "Ha ha!" 整个圈的人都这样做
And they'll do this all around the circle 直到所有人都自发地笑起来
till everyone was laughing spontaneously. 这是一种很好的健身运动
And it's a great workout. 做完以后 你会觉得自己
And at the end of it,you actually feel like your well being 健康了很多
is so much higher at the end. 他们还有"抱抱兔子" 或者"抱抱组"
They also have something called cuddle bunnies,cuddle parties. 抱抱免子 这是从网上的梯子理论上找来的
Cuddle bunnies - that's from the Ladder Theory online 大家想了解的话 就去搜索一下
if you want to google that. 抱抱组 是在纽约的
Cuddle parties is something that's in New York 我没有时间讲了
that I don't have time to talk about. 这些小组能改变心理创伤和坏心情…
And transforming trauma and bad days - 我想这当中很有趣的一点是
I think that one of the really interesting parts of it too 幽默真的可以让我们能够对我们以前认为是
is humor actually allows us to be able to transform things that 消积的 不好的或者让人烦恼的事情改观
we thought were negative or bad or upsetting in the past. 这就是我想说的 幽默最强大的功效
And I want to talk about that as the greatest power of humor, 但在讲这点之前 我想说
but before we do that,I want to say 可以增加我们幽默感的六种方法
six ways you can actually increase your humor levels as well. 首先 我们刚才已经讲了一个了
First of all,we just talked about one of these. 把只属于你的故事写进日记了
But journaling stories that are unique to you, 找出你日常生活中
finding funny stories that 好笑的故事 当你写日记时
just as you have to go through your day and when you journal, 要尽量写积极的经历
try to write about positive experiences, 你要审视你的周围
you are scanning your environment for the events 找出日常生活中发生的积极事件
that occur in your day which are positive. 想培养幽默 也可以用这个方法 把它练成一种技能
So too you can do that with humor and train that as a skill 就像把感恩练成一种培养乐观心态的技能
just as gratitude you can train as a skill of optimism 你要做的是 回忆起这一天
So what you do is you go through your day, 写下这一天发生的事情
write down something that happened during your day, 然后拿它发挥 给它变形
then play around with it,change the shape of it, 改变它的方向
keep orienting it 直到你能从中发现一些幽默
until you can find something that is humorous about it, 就像Jon Stewart的编剧
just as Jon Stewart's writers do 看报纸上的新闻一样
when they are looking at the news. 结果 你的大脑会养成一种模式
As a result of that,your brain actually gets in the pattern, 找到生活中好笑的事情的模式
the pattern of looking for things that are funny in your life. 第二个方法是观察幽默的人
Second is watching funny people 当你观察幽默的人时
when you observe other people that are funny 因为镜像神经元
because of these mirror neurons, 你能从他们身上学到幽默的一些规律
you actually pick up the rhythm of humor from them. 网上还有这样的规律供你学习
But there is actually a rhythm you can actually study online 如果你对此感兴趣的话
if you are interested about this. 你可以学习幽默的规律 这就是为什么
A rhythm of humor that you can study and that's the reason 培养模式和打破模式这么重要
why patterns and breaking patterns is so important. 有意识或无意识地学习这些规律
Be consciously,unconsciously pick those up, 就是我们以前讲过的可视法练习
just as the visualization practices we were talking about, 你在电视上看不擅长运动的人
where if you watch somebody on television who is bad at sport, 如果你看他们
if you watch them, 你也会变得不擅长于运动
you actually become bad at that technique as well; 所以如果你看擅长于运动的人
so too if you watch them who is good at this sport, 你会变得擅长于你看的这种运动
you become better at the action at watching. 当你观察幽默时 会有同样的结果
The same occurs when you are watching humor. 还有一个方法是TQP 两问处理法
Also is the Two question - TQP - the Two question process: 为什么我这么幽默?为什么别人没有发现我很幽默?
why am I so funny? Why don't other people recognize this? 不断地这么问自己
Keep repeating this to yourself 绝对能提升你的自尊
and it absolutely builds your self-esteem. 除此以外 还要允许自己当一个次等人类
In addition,the permission to be subhuman. 我们和伯格森都认为
Part of what we are seeing and Bergson talks about is that 要说这些笑话
in order to make those jokes 对着很创伤的事笑出来
and laugh at the things are traumatic, 我们要暂时地麻醉我们的心
we have to have a momentary anesthesia in our heart. 暂时地麻醉我们的心
The momentary anesthesia at the heart. 如果我们不允许自己当一会次等人类
And if we don't allow ourselves to be subhuman for a moment, 就等于我们不允许自己有人类的缺点
we don't allow ourselves to be human and in fact, 就是不承认我们有本我冲动
to recognize that we have these id impulses. 多找点花样 打破模式
Variety and breaking patterns. 你打破模式的次数越多
The more you can break a pattern, 你就越能看到一个情况里的可能性
the more you are able to see potentialities within a situation. 有一个用老鼠来做的实验
There's a study with mice where they have... 把一只老鼠放进笼子里
If you have one mice,mouse in the cage, 让它和一只母老鼠性交
they will have sex with a female mouse 当你把它放进笼子两到三次后
you put in the cage like 2 or 3 times 它就会变得很累
and then it gets really tired. 它就会躲到角落里 不想和母老鼠拥抱
And then it goes off to a corner and doesn't want to cuddle. 它会维持这样10分钟 这叫做潜伏期
And it does this about 10 minutes - this is called latency period 这时候你生理上无法进行性行为
where biologically you can't have sex for a while 因为太累了
because it's too tired. 接下来 放一只新的母老鼠进笼子里
And next of course you introduce a new female into the cage, 这时候
at this point, 老鼠会走过去 继续做这个实验
the mouse goes over and continue this experiment again 不管有没有过潜伏期
regardless of the amount of the latency period is there. 这个实验说明了 我们的大脑
What this seems to indicate is that our brains, 我们哺乳动物的大脑天生就要寻找多样性的
our mammalian brains are actually hardwired for variety, 这不是谈恋爱的好方法
and that's not an appropriate approach to relationships 但这时我们会认识到
but that's when we recognize 花样是生活的调味剂
that variety is absolutely the spice of life: 你越是改变你现在的模式
the more you can change up the patterns you are doing, 你就越能看到环境中的可能性
the more you see potentials in your environment. 我们之前讲过的俄罗斯方块效应
And the Tetris effect which we already talked about. 现在来讲幽默的最大功效
So now for the greatest power of humor, 我认为这点很重要
which I think is really important. 我想讲一下 然后让大家看一段视频
I want to talk a little bit and show a little clip, 因为我们只剩六分钟了
since we just have 6 minutes left. 我想让大家看一段我觉得很有强大的视频
I want to show you a clip that I found to be extremely powerful. 我不觉得上了一节幽默课后 看这段视频会坏了大家的心情
I don't think it's a buzz-kill after having a humor lecture. 但我觉得它很重要 值得我们一看
But I think it's really important to see 这段视频是关于Jon Stewart在911悲剧后怎么做节目的
how Jon Stewart dealt with September 11th tragedy afterwards. 我觉得从心理研究的角度来看 它不好笑
I think just from the psychological perspective,it's not funny. 但大家注意他的变化
But watch what's happening to him. 观察他的脸部表情 看他怎样试图
Watch his facial expressions,as he is attempting - 在这种情况下把幽默带回节目的壮举
this almost heroic attempt to bring humor back in the situation. 听听他是怎么形容幽默的
And listen how he describes humor. 这段我们会看三分钟
We'll watch this for 3 minutes, 然后看一段一分钟的"恶搞之家"
watch 1 minute of Family Guy clip. 然后我会用一分钟进行总结
And then I'll conclude in 1 minute. 等等
Wait for it. 视频：JON STEWART
[VIDEO: JON STEWART "THE DAILY SHOW WITH JON STEWART, 2001年9月20日
Taired on September 20,2001] 晚上好 欢迎收看"今日秀"
Jon Stewart:Good evening and welcome to "The Daily Show." 我们又开播了
We are back. 这是自从纽约发生悲剧以来 我们播出的第一集节目
This is our first show since the tragedy in New York City. 要开始这集节目 真的没有别的方式
And there is no other way really to start this show 只有问各位家庭观众一个问题
than to ask you at home the question that 这个问题我们已经问过今晚的现场观众
we've asked the audience here tonight 自911以来 我们已经问过我们认识的
and that we've asked everybody that we know here in New York 每一个纽约人 这个问题是"你还好吗?"
since September 11th,and that is,"Are you okay?" 我们祈祷大家都安好 大家的家人都安好
We pray that you are and that your family is. 很抱歉要对你们做这种事
I'm sorry to do this to you. 这又是一个娱乐节目
It's another entertainment show beginning 一个惊魂未定的主持 念着一段过分矫饰的开场白
with an overwrought speech of a shaken host. 电视节目除了多余 就真的什么都不是了
TV is nothing,if not redundant. 我为此向大家道歉
So,I apologize for that. 但很不幸
It's something that unfortunately, 我们必须为自己这么做 这样我们才能抽干
we do for ourselves so that we can drain whatever abscess 心里的脓 继续我们的工作 逗大家笑
is in our hearts and move onto the business of making you laugh, 最近我们都很难笑得出来了
which we haven't been able to do very effectively lately. 大家都来上班了 我知道我们晚了
Everyone's checked in already,I know we're late. 我知道我们开播的时间刚刚好
I'm sure we're getting in right under the wire 赶在了"幸存者"剧组出来建议
before the cast of "Survivor" offers their insight 我们在这种情况下应该怎么做之前
into what to do in these situations. 他们的建议就是 回去工作
They said to get back to work. 对于一个抱成一团 躲在桌子下哭的男人来说
And there were no jobs available for a man in the fetal position 是很难找到工作的 找得到的话我会很乐意去做
under his desk crying,which I gladly would have taken. 所以我回来了
So I come back here. 很显然今晚的节目不是一集平常的节目
Tonight's show is obviously not a regular show. 我们翻遍了资料库
We looked through the vaults, 找了几段我们觉得能逗你们笑的视频
we found some clips that we thought might make you smile, 我觉得在现在这是非常有必要的
which is really what's necessary,I think,right about now. 很多人问过我
A lot of folks have asked me, "你上班后 怎么做这个节目?
"What are you going to do when you get back? 你会说什么?"
What are you going to say?" 我是说 天啊 这种时候拍这样的节目多么不合适
I mean,Jeez,what a terrible thing to have to do. 我不觉得这是一个负担 我觉得这是一个荣幸
I don't see it as a burden at all.I see it as a privilege. 我觉得这是一个荣幸 这里的每个人都这么觉得
I just see it as a privilege and everyone here does. 听到我了吗?我觉得这是一段很强有力的视频
Shawn Achor:Am I back on? I think that's such a powerful clip. 你可以…
And you can deal - 听到他内心正在痛苦地挣扎
hear him dealing with the suffering that he is experiencing. 你可以看到他试图说几句笑
And you could see him trying to jump start the humor 然后又退缩回去了
and recoiling back again. 你可以听到他讲他惯用的语言风格
You can hear him talking about those idioms he imposes 他需要释放的感情
that he needs to release, 然后说他的挫败感
and later goes on and talks about the frustration. 这集节目的最后
At the end of the show, 他带了一只小狗上台
he actually just brings out a puppy on the stage 他就让小狗留在台上 试图让我们
and he just allows the puppy to be there to trying to get us, 恢复心情 让我们看到
to just return to this point where we can see potentials 在眼前的悲剧以外 还是有很多可能性的
beyond the tragedy that was actually faced upon them. 我觉得这是一段很优秀的视频 值得一看
But I think it's just a remarkable scene to watch. 过后 你可以看到人们
But afterwards you could see the people afterwards 用不同的方法应付悲剧
were dealing with the tragedy in different ways. 我觉得从一个社会学角度来看
I think one of the things that was very interesting from "恶搞之家"对911事件的回应也很有趣
a sociological perspective was Family Guy's response to this, 他们经历的那段时间
where they are going through this period 我们都很害怕
where we were absolutely terrified of people 用恐怖主义威胁美国的人 但他们却拍了这么一估
making terrorist threats against United States and they show this 视频：恶搞之家 第四季 14集
[VIDEO: FAMILY GUY Season 4 Episode 14] (阿富汗某个地方)
(Somewhere in Afghanistan) 所有美国异教徒听好了
Osama Bin Laden:This is a message to all American infidels. 准备在圣火的包围中死去吧
Prepare to die in a sea of holy fire. 你们将会为你们的堕落受到惩罚
You will be punished for your decadent ways 就在拉达曼的第一天
on the first day of Radaman. 你…等等
You...(laughing) Wait,wait a minute. 我刚才说什么了拉达曼?
Did I just say? What did I say...Radaman? 啦啦啦 拉-达-曼
Bla-bla-bla.Ra-ma-dan. 拉达曼 是什么?
Radaman...What is that? 对 可能丹尼斯·拉达曼(应该是罗德曼)
Yeah,maybe Dennis Radaman (Rodman) 会用他的怪头发惩罚你
is gonna punish you with his crazy hair. 不 你说啥?
No.What's that? 对 好的
Right.Right.Yeah. 好了 好了 我们再来一次
Okay,okay,all right,okay,let's go again. 好的 所有美国人听好了
Okay.This is a message to all amer... 我现在拍不了 我要…
I'm not...I'm not going to be able to do it now.I'm not gonna... 好了 不
Okay,all right,no. 不 我要…我要先笑个饱
No,I-I got to get all the,I got to get all the laughs out. 好了 我要先笑个饱
Okay,I got to get all the laughs out. 好了 行了
Lalala.Lulululu.Okay,all right. 今天 有时 你别再做鬼脸了
Today,sometime.Stop making that face over there! 你在干什么?我不能…
What are you doing? I can't... 他在做鬼脸 害得我要笑
He makes that face and it makes me laugh. 好了 不如这样 你转过身 转过身
Okay,you know what? Just turn around.Turn...turn around. 我不管你面朝哪里 朝那边吧 好的
I don't care where you look.Just look over there,okay. 好了 他们在那边大笑起来
All right,they're cracking.They're cracking up over there. 好了 看看谁又在那边偷笑了
Okay.Oh,yeah,yeah,look who's snickering over there,Mr. "我不能去做自杀式爆炸 因为我病了"先生
"I can't do a suicide bombing because I'm sick." 他…他还有医生签的请假条
He had a,he had a note...He had a note from his doctor! [Laugh] 他还有医生签的请假条
Shawn Achor:He said he had a note from his doctor. 下面的不看了 因为越来越不好笑了
I'm gonna cut it off there,cause it's getting worse. 我只剩一分钟
I just have one minute left. 我想告诉大家
So I just wanna tell you this 我们今天讲的一些内容
and I think that the things we've been talking about today, 我觉得这是一段很好的视频
I think that's a remarkable scene. 大家看到 当我们从吓到我们的情况下走出来
And what you see as we are moving from something that 并且拿这样的事来开玩笑
we are terrified of to something that we can begin to laugh at, 因为我们能看到当中的人性
because we can see the humanity there. 我们能看到自己大笑
We can see ourselves laughing and making mistakes 拍视频会议时犯错
while giving a video taped conference. 不一定是拍他说的那种话
Now not necessarily on the same topic that he was doing. 我们今天讲的内容是
But the things we talk about today 幽默就像乐观主义
is that humor is like optimism, 我们透过它来看世界
is a lens through which we view the world 它需要我们用正念来找到可能性
that demands a mindfulness to potentials, 它能加强我们的健康 改善我们的社交
that increases our health,our social benefits, 和我们的身体
and our physical benefits, 它能作为一种心理治疗方法
and they can serve as a therapeutic process. 我们把幽默视为一个奢侈
I think the humor itself we perceive to be a luxury 但我认为在痛苦和冲突
but I think in times the suffering and conflict 悲剧 经济倒退 大萧条出现的时候…
and tragedy and recession and depression – 我想没什么会比幽默更重要的
I think there's nothing more important than humor. 就像Jon Stewart说的 能给你们上课
And it's just an honor like Jon Stewart said, 是我的荣幸
to be here with you today. 谢谢
Thank you. 掌声
[Applause and cheers] 



 Chapter 20: 爱情和自尊


嗨 大家好 我叫Megan
Student:Hi,everyone.My name is Meghan. 课后我们会进行一个非常有趣的研究
And we were running a really fun study 有关内观自省与知见
right after class about mindfulness and vision. 时间不会超过10到15分钟
It shouldn't take more than 10 to 15 minutes. 我们需要至少60个人 所以如果你有兴趣
So if you are interested,we need more than 60 people. 请课后到教室前面来
So just come up to the front after class. 不会耽搁很久的 真的很有趣 谢谢
And it won't take a long time.It's really fun.Thank you. 掌声
(Applause) 你们都听过格特鲁德·斯泰因的这个故事
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:You know this story about Gertrude Stein. 她那时上William James的哲学课
And she was taking philosophy class with William James, 就在哈佛拉德克利夫学院
right here in the Art. 要期末考试了 她上的是春季班
And they had their final exam.And it was spring semester course. 她来到考场 就跟今天一样是个晴朗的日子
And she comes into the exam.And it's a day like today. 考试的内容是形而上学及生命的意义
And the exam is about metaphysics,and the meaning of life. 于是她打开试卷 写道
So she opens the exam and writes, "多么美好的一天 不应该浪费在考试上"
"Today is too beautiful a day to take an exam." 然后走出了教室
And she walks out. 而且传说
And you know,as legend has it of course, William James的课程她全A通过
she gets a straight A in William James' class. 本学期考试时
Don't use that as an example or an excuse 不要学她 或者拿她当借口
later on in this semester. 不过我真的很感谢各位今天出席
But I really appreciate you being here today. 今天天气非常好
It is a beautiful day. 我想过要到户外上课的
I was thinking of having the class outside, 不过…也许我们应该去的 是的
but I think - maybe we should.Yeah. 今天我们要讲完爱情
What we are going to do today is finish up on relationships - 还差一点就讲完了
we have just a little to go, 然后我们会开始讲本课程最后一个话题
and then start with our final topic for the course, 也就是自尊
which is self-esteem. 先回顾一下上回讲到的关于爱情的内容
So let me just recap what we did when we discussed relationships. 我们讲到了人类要如何…考虑到人的本性
So we talked about how do we - given our natures, 人类要如何获得 维持长久的爱情与激情
how do we attain,how do we sustain lasting love, 因为从心理学角度看
lasting passion when it seems on the physiological level at least 这似乎有违人的本性
that our natures are not attuned to that approach. 当我们讲到研究那些最成功的恋情时
And we talked about - when studying the best relationships, 最成功的恋情有四个特点
the "tip of the stem" - four characteristics, 根据David Schnarch和John Gottman的研究发现的
based on the work of David Schnarch and John Gottman. 第一条是 经营爱情需要付出努力
The first one is: relationship is the hard work. 人们往往误以为
It's an illusion to think that 寻找合适的爱情对象是最重要的
the most important thing is finding the right relationship; 其实更重要的是如何经营你选择的爱情
it is more important to cultivate that one chosen relationship. 就跟工作一样 如果我们找到了梦想中的工作
And just like we would not thrive,succeed at work, 然后翘起腿 什么也不做
if we said,"Well,I just found my dream job," 是不可能成功的
and then put our legs up and relax; 同样的 如果我们在一段恋情中抱有寻找心态
similarly we would not thrive in a relationship, 我们的恋情也不会成功
if we have the finding mindset - 以为只要找到爱情就能幸福地生活下去
we just need to find it and we will live happily ever after, 我们说过 电影结束时 正是爱情刚开始时
as we talked about movies and where love begins. 一段健康长久充满激情的爱情
The second component of a healthy, 第二个组成部分 跟第一个有关联
lasting and passionate relationship related to the first one 我们要被了解 而不是被认可
is the notion of being known rather than being validated, 表达自己 而不是粉饰自己 坦开心扉
expressing rather than impressing,being open, 坦诚自己的弱点 优点 渴望
revealing our weaknesses as well as our strengths,our desires, 热情 恐惧与不安
our passions,our fears and insecurities. 这样的爱情
And relationships that do, 恋爱中的双方如果这样做了
or partners that do that within a relationship, 会渐渐变得更加亲密 更加快乐
over time attain higher and higher levels of intimacy,happiness, 感情更好 激情不哀
and they thrive,and they remain - maintain their passion. 这是第二个组成部分
That's the second component. 健康爱情的第三个组成部分是
The third component of a healthy relationship is that 冲突是不可避免的
there are conflicts there. 人们往往误以为
It is an illusion to believe that 理想的爱情没有冲突
the ideal relationship is one that is conflict free 这是不可能的
that doesn't exist, 除非双方都在刻意躲避严重问题
unless both partners are suppressing serious issues. 所以爱情中时有冲突发生
So there are conflicts in relationships. 当然在一段恋情中 我们的挑战就是要
The challenge is to have more positivity than negativity 让积极的大于消极的
of course in a relationship, 而且要学会如何应对分歧
but also to learn how to be in the midst of disagreement, 应对冲突
how to have conflict. 最后
And finally, 第四点是积极认知
the fourth point that we talked about was positive perception; 要做优点感知者 不仅如此
being a benefit finder,and more than that, 还要创造优点
being a benefit creator. 我快快回顾一遍
I want to just go back quickly 然后细讲一些上回没说的东西
and elaborate on something that I didn't last time 关于爱情中的冲突
about the conflict or conflicts within a relationship. 我觉得我读过的
I think the most important essay, 关于爱情最重要的文章
article that I read about relationships in general 是艾默生的《论友谊》
was the article on friendship by Ralph Waldo Emerson, 发表于1841年
published in a84a. 艾默生在其中写了他理想的朋友
And What Emerson writes about is his ideal friend. 我来读一段
Let me quote him. 他说 "在朋友身上
He says,"in a friend, 我寻找的不是盲目的让步
what I am looking for is not a mush of concessions, 对我千依百顺的人
a person who would agree with everything that I say; 我寻找的是一个美丽的敌人
rather what I'm looking for is a beautiful enemy, 能挑战我 敦促我
a person who will challenge me,who will push me, 帮助我寻求真相"
who will help me in my apprenticeship to the truth." 美丽的敌人 多美的描述
A beautiful enemy - what a beautiful phrase. 没有冲突的爱情
A conflict free relationship is 就没有美丽的敌人
where there are no beautiful enemies. 美丽的敌人是指因为爱我们
A beautiful enemy is a person who loves us, 关心我们 所以要跟我们针锋相对的人
who cares about us enough to challenge us,enough to disagree. 问问你自己 你想找的
And ask yourself what kind of friend, 是什么样的朋友或伴侣 是百依百顺的好好先生或太太吗?
what kind of romantic partner would you like? A yes man or woman? 还是一个诚恳待人
Or a person who would be honest, 直言规劝的诤友
would have high levels of integrity? 理想的朋友 理想的伴侣 是什么样的?
What is the ideal friend? What is the ideal partner? 有趣的是
You know it's interesting 美丽敌人这一概念最早可以追溯到
this whole idea of beautiful enemy goes way back 西方世界
it goes back to the most influential text 最有影响力的文本 即圣经
in certainly the Western world,which is the Bible. 在创世纪中 上帝看到男人独居
In Genesis,God sees that man is alone. 于是为他造一个配偶帮助他 一个女人 helpmeet
So he creates a help meet for him,a woman.A helpmeet. helpmeet这个词是什么意思? 这是钦定版圣经的翻译
What does that phrase mean? This is the King James translation. 如果你看希伯来原文
Well,if you look at it in the Hebrew,original, "helpmeet"的原文是"ezer kenegdoor" 对立的帮助
"helpmeet" is "ezer kenegdoor",or help as opposition. 也就是说 helpmeet中meet的意思
In other words,the helpmeet translation,the meet part,M-E-E-T, 类似运动会的会 也就是竞争
is like athletic meet,like a competition. 不是指帮助并取得共识 而是对立的帮助
Not helping and they meet together - it's help as opposition. 所以那时人们已经注意到 理想的爱情
And already then that it was notices the ideal relationship 不是一帆风顺 没有冲突的
is not one which is all smooth,conflict free; 而是有阻力的
it is one where there is some resistance. 这种阻力就是Gottman曾经谈到…
And it's this resistance that Gottman talked about in the - or 本世纪一直谈到的 对于健康的爱情关系
he is talking about in the 2ast century that it is so important, 非常重要且关键的
so critical for a healthy relationship,a beautiful enemy, 一个美丽的敌人 对立的帮助
help as opposition,helpmeet, 当然还要有积极的态度
again with a lot of positivity in the relationship as well. 我们继续讲积极认知
So we move on,and just finish up on positive perception. 我想给大家放一段视频 是我最爱电影的片段
I want to show you an excerpt from one of my favorite movie 我认为这部影片是心理学领域
as I think it's one of the best movies certainly 最成功的一部影片 《尽善尽美》
in the realm of psychology ever made,from As Good As it Gets. 这段视频中海伦.亨特告诉杰克.尼克尔森
And here is the part where Holly Hunter tells Jack Nicholson 他最好称赞一下她
that he'd better give her a compliment 而且要称赞得很好听
and it'd better be a good compliment. 否则她就马上离开
Because if it is not,she's getting up and leaving. 他之前刚说了非常冒犯她的话
He just said something very offensive to her. 于是他对他爱的女人这么说
So here is what he has to say to the woman he loves. (视频:电影《尽善尽美》片段)
[VIDEO: CLIP FROM AS GOOD AS IT GETS] 好了 现在 我是有些称赞你的话 而且都是真心话
OK,now I've got a really great compliment for you,and it's true. 我担心你会说出很难听的话
I'm so afraid you're about to say something awful. 悲观可不是你的风格
Don't be pessimistic.It's not your style. 好了 我要说了:确实 我错了
Okay,here I go: Clearly,a mistake. 我得了 怎么说…小毛病?
I've got this,what - ailment? 我的医生 我常去看的心理医生…
My doctor,a shrink that I used to go to all the time, 说五到六成的病例…
he says that in fifty or sixty percent of the cases, 服药就会有效
a pill really helps. 我憎恨吃药 药很危险 恨死了
I hate pills,very dangerous thing,pills.Hate. 我说药时用的是"恨死了" 恨死了
I'm using the word "hate" here,about pills.Hate. 我想称赞你的是
My compliment is, 那天晚上当你来我家 告诉我你决不会…
that night when you came over and told me that you would never... 好吧 你当时在场 说过什么你知道
All right,well,you were there,you know what you said. 我要恭维你的是…
Well,my compliment to you is, 第二天早晨我开始服药
the next morning,I started taking the pills. 这算哪门子的称赞
I don't quite get how that's a compliment for me. 你使我想成为更好的男人
You make me want to be a better man. 这是我这辈子听过最好听的称赞
That's maybe the best compliment of my life. 也许过头了
Well,maybe I overshot a little, 因为我只想着不让你走出去
because I was aiming at just enough to keep you from walking out. 这就是创造优点的本质
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:This is the essence of benefit creating. 你使我想成为更好的男人 更好的女人
You make me want to be a better man,a better woman, 一个更好的人
a better person. 你使我想自愿洗餐具做家务
You make me want to do the dishes as well. 那我们该怎么做?如何让爱情关系或伴侣
What do we do then? How do we get a relationship 关注积极正面的东西
or partners in relationships to focus on the positive, 关注优点 创造优点?
to focus on the benefit,to focus on creating more good there? 这就得回到第一堂课的内容
Well we are going back to the very first lesson,very first class- 也就是提问的重要性
and that is the importance of questions. 记得 提问是探求的开始
Remember,questions begin a quest. 当我们问问题时
When we ask certain question, 会留意到以往忽视的东西
we see certain things that we didn't see before. 我们问问题时
When we ask certain question, 也会忽视一些现实情况
we are also avoiding or not seeing part of reality 还记得几何图形吗
remember the geometric shapes. 你们只看到了图形 没留意颜色
It's all you saw - you didn't see colors; 没看到公车上的孩子
you didn't see children on the bus; 大多数人没看到钟
most of you did not see the clock. 在爱情关系中
And very often in relationships, 我们在蜜月期之后常问的问题是
the questions that we ask after the honey moon is: "出什么问题了 怎么会这样 怎么改进?"
"What's wrong? What happened? Or what can be improved?" 重申
And again, 这些问题很重要 出发点是好的
these are important questions with very good intentions. 但是我们回避或忽视了一些重要的现实
But we just avoid or don't see an important part of reality. 我们需要问的问题
So the questions that we need to ask 应该是积极的
are also the positive questions, 能让我们看到公车上的孩子的问题
the questions that will allow us to see the children on the bus. 我的伴侣有哪些优点 让我觉得感激
What am I grateful for in my partner? 经常这么问问自己很重要
And it's important to do that always, 尤其是遇到矛盾时
especially during difficult times, 因为总有些东西值得欣赏
because there's always something to appreciate. 如果我们不懂得欣赏 那优点就会贬值
And if we don't appreciate that thing,the good depreciates, 这个道理对我们国家 组织
whether it applying to our country,to our organization, 爱情及自己同样适用
to our relationship as well as to ourselves. 第二个积极正面的问题是
Second positive question: 我们的关系有什么美妙之处
What is wonderful about our relationships? What's working? 我们怎么会走到一起的?
Why are we together in the first place? 我爱她 他 我们的哪一点?有哪些好的方面?
What do I love about him,her,us? What's good? 我们问"哪些好的方面"时 我们就看到了好的方面
And when we ask what's good,that's when we perceive it. 当我们看到 欣赏这些好的方面时 它就增值了
And when we perceive it,when we appreciate it,it appreciates. 我们并不感到惊讶
It's not a surprise that 上周看到的统计数据显示
the statistics are as they are what we saw last time, 大多数恋情都是苟延残喘
that most relationships flounder, 即使勉强在一起 也没有什么感情可言
and even those stay together don't really thrive. 这不是巧合
No,it's no coincidence. 这是因为我们问的大多数问题
It's because of most of the questions that we asked 虽然意图是好的
again,with good intentions. 当然了 没人谈恋爱
No one has the intentions certainly 是为了分手 或原地踏步
not going into a relationship to end it or not to thrive in it. 但是我们问的大多数问题
But most of the questions that we asked, 我们受到的教育让我们问的问题
that we are taught to ask are the ones 都集中在几何图形上
that focus on the metaphorical geometric shapes. 我们要做的是 换一个角度来探索这个问题
And what we need to do is open up a new quest,no opportunity, 看到那些一直都在
see things that are there all along 但却被我们忽略了的东西
that we simply have overlooked. 引用Robert M.Pirsig
Again,the quote from Robert M. 在《万里任禅游》的一句话
Pirsig,Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: 我们常常追寻真相
so often we look for the truth 当真相叩响我们的大门时
and the truth comes and knocks on our door. 我们却说 "走开 我寻求的是真相"
And we say to it,"Go away! I'm looking for the truth." 事实上 真相往往就在我们眼前
Very often it's right in front of us. 我们要做的就是仔细看
All we need to do is look. 而引导我们注意到
And one way to look,one way to guide our attention toward 眼前的东西的一个方法
what is right in front of us 就是提出积极正面的问题
is by asking also the positive questions. 好了 目前我们讲了哪些
OK,so what do we have? What do we have so far? 创造积极的爱情关系
In terms of creating a more positive relationship, 做一个优点创造者
in terms of being a benefit creator, 我们要关注潜能
we want to focus on the potential. 还有一件事我们能做到
And there's one more thing,one more thing that we can do. 也就是多沟通积极正面事件
And that is communicating about positive events. 这是加利福尼亚大学的Shelly Gable研究
This is taken from the work of Shelly Gable from UCLA 在我看来 她做了积极心理学领域里
who's done to my mind the most important work 与爱情关系课题有关的最重要的研究
in the area of positive psychology as it relates to relationships 有很多研究
You see there is a lot of research 是关于消极沟通的
that has been done on negative communication, 什么意思呢 我们上节课讲过如何处理分歧
meaning - what we saw last time - how do you disagree, 不要把分歧上升到认知层面
so rather have a cognitive disagreement 不要把分歧恶化为情感上的分裂
rather than an affective or emotional disagreement 要针对实在的行为
focus on the substance,focus on the behavior, 而不是针对人和感情
rather than on the person,on the emotions. 我们知道
So we know that 有很多关于组织行为学
there's a lot of research on organizational behavior 及婚恋咨询的研究
and couples counseling research and so on. 但对情侣间积极沟通的研究
There has been almost no research done 几乎为零
on positive communication between couples, 这和心理学领域的大多数研究一样
which is in line with most of the research done in psychology. 还记得21:1的比率吗
Again,remember,the ratio 21 to 1. 现在有所提高了
Now it's a little bit less, 大约20:1 积极研究与消极研究的比例
but around 20 to a ratio,positive to negative research. 爱情领域也一样
Same when it comes to relationship. 很不幸 没有例外
No exception,unfortunately. Shelly Gable认为
Here comes Shelly Gable and says, "我们还需要关注有用的东西"
"We also need to focus on what is working." 于是她开始研究积极沟通
And she started to study positive communication 积极事件
about positive events quite. 注意 她的发现非常了不起
And lo and behold,what she found was quite remarkable. 她发现
In fact,what she found was that 一对伴侣如何沟通积极事件
the way couples communicate about positive events 比起如何沟通消极事件
is a better predictor of long term success in relationships 更能预测到这段感情能否天长地久
than how they communicate about negative events. 事情顺利时 比事情不顺时
When things go well - better predictor of long term, 更可能预测婚恋关系能否长久而甜蜜
thriving,passionate relationship than when things do not go well 所以我回家告诉我太太
So when I come home and tell my partner, "哦 我今天做了这事 太棒了"
"Oh,I just did this and it was amazing." 或者"我看了这部电影 太激动人心了"
Or "I've just seen this and it was breath-taking." 或者其他工作上的事
Or this is what is going on at work. 都是我生活中发生的点点滴滴
This is what's going on in my personal life. 这是好事
And it's a good thing. 而我太太如何回应
How my partner responds 能预测到这段感情能否天长地久
predicts a long term success of the relationship. Gable的意思是指
Specifically what Gable is talking about 主动的有建设性的回应
is active constructive responding. 什么是主动的有建设性的回应?
What is active constructive responding? 她分类得出了二行二列的表格
What she does is divide it into a 2 by 2 – 我现在就给大家介绍下
I'm going to present the 2 by 2 now. 这是直接抄自我三位同僚的著作中
This is taken directly from the work of three of my colleagues, 来自澳大利亚的Jane Elsner  Barbara Heilman和Amanda Horn
Jane Elsner,Barbara Heilman and Amanda Horn from Australia. 她们是这样进行的
And here is what they did: 把Shelly Gable的理论总结成了一张浅显易懂的2x2表
put Shelly Gable's work into an understandable clear 2 by 2. 表的横行是有建设性的沟通
So we have on one dimension constructive 与破坏性的沟通
versus destructive communication; 纵列是主动沟通与被动沟通
on the other dimension,active versus passive communication. 我们通过一个例子来说明四个格子
Let's go through the four boxes using an example. 我太太下班回家 说
My partner comes home from work and she says, "我升职了
"I just got a promotion, 这个职位我等了好久
the promotion that I've been waiting for for so long. 终于如愿以偿了"
I was just told that I got it." 我如何回应? 如果是被动的破坏性的
How do I respond? Well,if I'm passive and destructive, 我会表现出兴趣缺乏 注意力分散
I show no interest,diverted attention. 我会说"嗯嗯" 然后讲其他的
I say "Mm hmm",and just move on or talk about, "你看到花园里种了新花了吗"
"But did you see we got a new flower in the garden?" 说些完全无关的话题 分散注意
Just talk about something unrelated to it - diverted attention. 这就是被动的破坏性的回应
This is passive and destructive.Now,destructive and active. 升职后 她回家
Just got promotion.She comes home. 我回应"哦 不
And my response is "Oh no, 这样的话我们在一起的时间就更少了
this means we'll have even less time to spend together! 孩子们怎么办?"
What does this mean about our children now?" 或者"度假的事怎么办?
Or "what about our holiday that we would go on, 说好下个月去的 是不是去不了了?"
we were gonna go on next month? It's not possible now,is it?" 主动的破坏性的回应
Destructive and active. 然后是被动的建设性的回应
Then there is passive and constructive. 也是最常见的回应
This is the most common response. "哦 太好的 太棒了 嗯"
"Oh,that's great.Wonderful.Mm hmm.Wow." 然后是第四个框 主动且有建设性的
And then there is the forth box,the active and constructive, 也就是"你升职了 太好了
which is "You just prom... That is amazing! 告诉我 跟我说说 过程是怎么样的?
Tell me,tell me all about it! So what happened? 是不是老板叫你去他办公室告诉你的?
Did the boss call you into his office and tell you? 到底是怎么样的?"或者"我们得好好庆祝庆祝"
How did it happen?" Or "We have to celebrate!" 又或者"打电话叫朋友们出去庆祝
Or "let's call our friends and go out! 太棒了 干得好 你这么努力
This is amazing! Well done! You've worked so hard for it! 我真为感到高兴"
I'm so happy for you!" 主动且有建设性
Active constructive. 结果显示 不同的回应
As it turns out,there are consequences, 会带来不同的影响或后果
implications to each one of these responses. 很可惜 主动且建设性的回应并不常见
Unfortunately,this – the active constructive - not very common. 在情侣之间并不常见
Not very common among partners 尤其是过了蜜月期后
especially after the honey moon phase. 所以一开始 生理上的新鲜感
So when initially the physiological,the novelty, 刺激感强烈 此类回应很常见
the excitement is there,it happens more often. 但一段时间后 就消失了
But after a while,this goes away, Shelly Gable发现 这种回应一消失
and with it,as Shelly Gable has shown, 这段关系就很难长久下去
the success of the relationship in a long term. 主动且建设性的回应
Now the thing about active constructive responding is that 适用于我们生活的方方面面
it applies to numerous areas in our lives, 不仅是爱情关系
not just to romantic relationships- 如何与室友沟通
how I communicate with my roommates; 如何与家人 父母 孩子沟通
how I communicate with my family,parents,children; 作为心理医生 如何与病人沟通
as a therapist,how I communicate with my clients, 因为心理学的初衷
because again,most of what psychology has been about 就是为了医生坐在这儿
is for the therapists to sit there 被动但有建设性地回应 微笑
and to be passive constructive - to smile, 说 "嗯 不错 然后呢"
"Mm hmm.Wonderful.And then what happened?" - 而不是主动且有建设性地回应 这会引起不良后果
As oppose to active constructive and there are consequences. 这并不是说
It doesn't mean that 这在任何时候都是最正确的方法
it's the right approach in every relationship every time, 因为这种回应方法是有些使用限制的
because there are a few constraints here. 比如 必须是双赢事件
For example - it has to be win-win events. 比如说我太太下班回家 说
Let's say my partner comes from work and says, "Tal 你不会相信的
"Tal,you won't believe it. 我刚和同事疯狂做爱了
I just made the most amazing love with my colleague. 他太不可思议了 我从未有过这种感觉"
He was unbelievable! In fact,I never felt this way before." 主动且有建设的回应:我要知道细节 然后呢
Now active constructive: Do tell more and what happened then? 对大多数人来说 这种情况下
Very difficult to be actively constructive 很难做到主动且有建设性
in the situation for most people. 包括在座各位 很难 所以这个回应是为了双赢
Present company included.Very difficult.So it's about win-win. 至少我看来 刚才这个例子不是双赢 必须是双赢
That's not a win-win as far as I can see.It has to be a win-win. 换句话说 就是要我们双方
In other words,something that both of us 恋爱双方都能获益的 或至少
or the relationship will benefit from,or at the very least, 另一方不会因此受伤害
that the other person is not hurt by it. 必须是真诚的
It has to be genuine. 不能是假的 因为那样…
It cannot be fake,because that can't 尤其是一旦伴侣发现
especially once the partner knows you 慢慢地就会出现问题
over time it just doesn't work. 所以必须是真诚的
It has to be genuine, 我们必须进入伴侣的角色中
meaning we have to get into the role of our partner, 产生认同 共鸣
identify with,empathize with, 设身处地 这样才能产生真诚的回应
be one with so that we can genuinely respond to it. 如果我们能做出真诚的回应 如果这是一个双赢事件
And if we do genuinely respond to it, and if it is a win-win 就会带来几个良性循环
that's when it generates upward spiral on a few levels. 首先 记得吗
First of all: remember, 通常当积极事件发生时 会怎么样
usually when a positive event happens,what happens? 会有一个峰值 然后情感预测
There is a spike up and then affective forecasting  根据Gilbert的研究 会逐渐回落
Gilbert's work - shows goes back down again. 有效的建设性回应
What effective constructive responding does 比如"好 再说说
which is "OK,tell me more. 当时是怎么样的?我们庆祝吧 告诉我细节
So how was it? Let's celebrate! Give me more details. 我想知道 我很有兴趣"
I wanna know! I'm interested!" 这样的回应会延长峰值
What it does to the spike is prolong it. 会使它持续更长的一段时间
It actually keeps it going for much longer 而不是仅仅一个积极事件那样
than it would have been just a positive event 很快回落到基本水平
and then back to the base level. 因为无论我们获得什么升职
Because we know no matter what promotion we get at work, 一开始感觉很好
initially it feels great, 无论什么情绪上涨 一开始感觉很棒
no matter what raise initially it feels wonderful, 然后又会回到基本水平
and then it goes back down again to base level. 而主动且有建设性的回应会延长
Active constructive responding actually elongates that raising, 幸福感的提升与增强
that improvement in well being. 所以这是其中一个良性循环 更好的感觉
So that is one spiral that it creates - feeling better. 另一种良性循环 是人际关系的
The second spiral is an inter-personal spiral, 也就是说作出真诚主动有建设性回应的人
meaning a person who actively constructively responds genuinely 会获得相同的良性循环
enters the same upward spiral, 也就是说
meaning people 真诚回应的人会变得更快乐
who do that genuinely become happier as a result of 因为他们也经历了这一事件
because they experience the event. 他们自己也从中获益 变得更快乐
And they themselves benefit and become happier, 所以又是一种双赢
again a win-win potentially. 最后一点 它和积极心理学的整体作用一样
And finally,it also does what positive psychology 累积积极正面情绪
as a whole does which is build positive capacity. 记得吗 积极心理学
Remember positive psychology 不仅让我们从0变得积极
takes us not just from the zero to the positive, 还帮助我们更好地把消极变为0
it also helps us better deal with the negative to the zero. 作出主动且有建设性回应的伴侣
Partners who actively constructive respond to one another 是在为艰难时刻累积积极正面情绪
are building capacity for hard times. 事实上 很久以前
In fact one of the most interesting research that 有一项有趣的实验
were done long time ago was that couples 当生活顺利时 夫妻双方…
when things went well or they were - wasn't, 虽然当时的研究没有用这样的术语 但意思上是相同的
that language wasn't used - but essentially 1920年代 夫妻双方能主动
when they actively constructively responded to one another 且有建设性地回应对方 支持对方
and supported one another back in the 1920s, 大萧条发生时
once the Great Depression hit, 他们的婚姻反而变得更坚固了
the relationship actually became better; 而没有做到这点的伴侣
whereas partners who didn't have a good before, 他们的婚姻往往会瓦解 变糟
the relationship very often dissolved,became worse. 换句话说 他们累积正面情绪
In other words,when they built the capacity, 应对困难时期
it helped them also deal with the hard times 比如20年代 30年代
such as 1929 and the 1930s. 幸福的爱情 健康的爱情
There are no short cuts when it comes to good relationships, 没有捷径
to healthy relationships. 如果你想要成功 就需要努力
It is hard work,if you want to succeed, 跟生活的其他领域一样
just like it is in every other domain in life. 没有捷径可走
There are no short cuts. 但是 这不是说 努力就是痛苦的
However,that doesn't mean that hard work cannot be enjoyable, 它可以意义非凡且充满乐趣
cannot be pleasurable as well as meaningful. 当你的努力是充满乐趣 意义非凡时
And when that hard work is pleasurable and meaningful, 渐渐地 就会使爱情更幸福
over time that leads to a happier relationship, 使你们更快乐 建立双赢的伴侣关系
happier individuals to a win-win togetherness. 结束这部分前 我还想说一点
I want to end but just addressing a point that 你们很多人都问过我
many of you have raised with me: 当我们讲追求幸福时
and that is should we even talk about relationships 我们应该讲恋情吗?
in the context of pursuit of happiness. 大多数人的回答是 应该 但有所保留
And the answer for most people is yes with some discomfort. 说"是"的原因是 爱情是幸福的最重要来源
Yes,because it is the No.1 generator of the ultimate currency; 有所保留的原因是
some discomfort 追求幸福的本质是自私的
because pursuing happiness is by its nature selfish. 我的意思是 我思考我的幸福时
I mean actually when I am thinking about my happiness, 毫无疑问 我想的是自己
I'm thinking by definition about the self. 难道恋情不是与自私对立的吗
And shouldn't relationship be about the opposite of selfishness, 换句话说 恋情是利他主义的
in other words,about altruism. 关于这点我有几句话要说
So let me just say a few words about this. 就拿教书作为例子
Let's take an example from teaching. 想象一下 假如我不喜欢教书
Imagine this: imagine that I actually don't like teaching. 我不喜欢教书
I don't like to teach. 不喜欢每周二周四来这里
I don't like coming here on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 对我来说非常痛苦
And in fact it's very painful for me. 但是 出于我受到的教育 我学的哲理
However,I have a deep sense of duty because of my upbringing, 我有很强的责任感
because of the philosophies that I read. 我对别人有很强的责任感
I have a deep sense of duty to other people. 我知道积极心理学
And I know that positive psychology is 给教给别人一些很重要的知识
or has some important messages to give people. 于是我来上课 不是因为我喜欢教书
And therefore I teach it,not because I like it, 而是因为我认为它能帮助到别人
but because I think it can potentially help other people. 我每周二周四早上醒来
And I wake up in Tuesdays and Thursdays mornings, 痛苦地来到教室
and I dread going to class. 一个半小时的课让我度日如年
The hour and a half seems like eternity to me. 我最不想做的事就是教书
The last thing in the world that I want to do is teach, 但是我的责任感驱使我这样 因为我是利他主义者
but I'm driven by my sense of duty,because I'm an altruist, 我为伟大的事业牺牲自己
I'm sacrificing myself for what I think is a greater good. 再想想另一种情况
Now think of the alternative. 想象与刚才那位老师相反的情况
Imagine this teacher and then imagine the alternative. 就是我
And the alternative is me. 我爱教书
I love teaching. 我最喜欢的地方就是教室的讲台
There is no where else I would rather be right now than here. 我爱积极心理学
I love positive psychology. 我等不及要打开电脑备课
I can't wait to get onto my computer and write the lectures; 等不及准备幻灯片
I can't wait to prepare the powerpoints 搜索Google图片
and work hard on Google image to do so; 我等不及要与你们互动
I can't hardly wait to interact with you. 我喜欢每周二周四站在这里
I love being here every Tuesday and Thursday. 这是我热爱的 我的使命
It is my passion,it is my calling, 和你们在一起上课 对我来说
it is both pleasurable and meaningful to me 意义非凡又充满乐趣
to spend time with you. 那么你们想要哪一位老师
And now I ask you which teacher would you rather have? 是出于责任和利他主义动机
The teacher who is here out of a sense of duty, 才来上课的老师
for altruistic reasons? 还是那个为了满足自己
Or is the person who is here for selfish reasons, 喜欢上课这个爱好而来上课的老师?
because he would rather be here more than any other place? 另一个问题
I also ask you 你觉得哪个老师会是更好的老师
which teacher do you think would be a better teacher? 引申开去 你们会想要怎样的伴侣
And now I ask you,which partner would you rather have, 一个跟你在一起是因为他们觉得
a partner who is with you just because they feel like "这人很需要我"
"Well,that person really needs me," "这家伙真可怜"
or "I feel sorry for the person," "我不是真的喜欢他
"I don't really like that person,but I'm there 我只是出于责任感 支持他"的人?
just to be there for them,because,out of a sense of duty"? 还是跟你在一起是因为
Or would you rather have a person who is with you 你是他们生命中最重要的人
because you are the most important person in their lives, 因为他们如此关心你 从"我"变成了"我们"?
because they care about so much that the I becomes the We? 他们像关心自己一样 关心你
They care about you as much as they care about themselves. 把你纳入了自己的一部分
They include you in their circle of the self. 你们认为哪种爱情会成功?
Which relationship do you think will thrive more? 这不是说
Now that does not mean that 爱情中不会有牺牲
there is no sacrificing in relationships; 也不是说 如果我伴侣身体不适
that does not mean that if my partner is unwell, 或者需要我帮助 我不会全力以赴
or needs my help,I would not go out of my way, 即使那意味着需要放弃
even if it means giving up something that 我当时的梦想
I really really want to do at that point. 当然了 在健康的恋情中
Of course,in healthy relationships, 当我变成了我们 就会有牺牲
when the Is become a We,sacrifices exist, 但这是健康的牺牲
and there is healthy sacrifice. 这样的恋情
But it's not a relationship that 它的基础不是责任感
is based fundamentally on the sense of duty 不是否定自我的利他主义
or altruistic negation of the self. Nathaniel Branden说过 我们越独立
As Nathaniel Branden says,the more independent we are, 就越互相依赖
the more inter-dependent we can become. 当我变成我们时 就会这样
That's when the I becomes a We. 这与我们所讲过的内容相反
Again this is something which goes against much of our teachings 不是很容易接受
it's not always easy to accept,but again 但是这门课不仅是关于积极心理学
this class much more than it is about positive psychology, 还有现实心理学
is about reality psychology. 问问你自己 想成为哪种伴侣
And ask yourself what partner would you rather be, 想拥有哪种伴侣
what partner would you rather have, 想要哪种老师 举一反三
what teacher would you rather have - completely analogous. 好了 我们来讲本课程最后一个话题
OK.Let's move on now to the very last topic of this class. 我说过很多次 我从不拖延
As I've said many times,I never procrastinate; 直接用了Google图片
I just use Google image. 当我还在哈佛这里读本科大四时
I started to think explicitly about the topic about self-esteem 就开始非常认真地思考自尊这个话题
when I was a senior,as an undergraduate here. 当时我注意到一个现象
I started to think about it when I noticed another phenomenon. 那是我转专业到哲学和心理学后
So that was after I switched into philosophy and psychology. 我对自己的学业很满意
I was very happy on my concentration. 在壁球队里也很开心
I was very happy playing in the squash team. 哈佛生活对我来说一帆风顺
Harvard was going great for me. 但后来我发现一些很费解
But then I started to notice something that was unclear, 无法理解的事情
didn't make sense to me. 我自尊程度相当低
And that was the fact that I had low self-esteem 至少看起来是这样
or so it seemed at least. 我无法理解
And it didn't make sense to me, 因为我表现不错 得过奖
because I was doing well,I had won prizes, 屡获表扬 支持
I had received a lot of accolades,a lot of support, 有来自室友的 朋友的 家人的
whether it's from my roommates,friends,family, 运动还是学术都屡获嘉奖
lot of pads on the back in athletics,in academics. 但我的自尊还是很低
And yet I had low self-esteem. 这让我很不解
And it just didn't make any sense to me. 还有一件事更让我困惑
There was another thing that baffled me even more. 在某种程度上 我觉得我的成功在惩罚我
It was as if on some level I was punished by success. 这是什么意思?
What do I mean by that? 每次我获得成功 或者被表扬
Every time when I would succeed,or when I did get praise, 我的自尊就会增加 改进
my self-esteem would increase,would improve. 但很快
But then very quickly afterwards, 又回到了基础水平 甚至更低
it went down,back to its base level and even lower. 为了重新提升它
And in order to raise it back up again, 我就需要更多表扬
I needed even more praise, 比以前更多的赞赏
even more accolades than I needed before. 有一个比喻不断出现在我脑海里
And the metaphor that kept coming to mind 科林斯王推石头上山的故事
was Sisyphus pushing a rock up on mountain. 我就好像在推石头上山
I would push the rock up the mountain, 挣扎奋斗直到获得成功
struggle till the next victory came. 成功后我得到表扬
And the next victory came and I got the praise, 获得赞赏 奖品
I got the accolades,I got the prize. 我的自尊提升了
And my self-esteem was high. 我处在了山顶
I was on top of the mountain. 然后石头又滚了下来
And then this rock would be rolled down again. 我不得不跑下山重新再推
And I would have to run down and start to push it up again 而且这次 山坡更陡峭了
only this time,the hill was even steeper; 我不得不更加努力 才能到达山顶
I would have to struggle even more and I would get up there again 然后石头又滚下山
and then it would roll back down. 以前那些赞赏 表扬
Now it wasn't enough to have the accolade,the praise,the amount 已经不够了
the quality and the quantity that I had before. 我需要更多才能重新回到山顶
I needed even more just to get onto the same mountain, 更陡峭 更困难
even steeper,even more difficult. 我想不通
And it didn't make sense to me. 到了大四 我选修了一门课
And then I took a class - senior year 出于诸多原因 那成为了我最爱的课程之一
ended up being one of my favorite classes for various reasons 童话课 原因我现在不想细讲
which I will not go into now,Fairy Tales. 我选修了童话课 我们读了卢梭的《爱弥儿》
I took Fairy Tales and we read Emile, Rousseau's Emile Maria Tatar讲到了很多精彩的理论 我想通了
And Maria Tatar talked about wonderful theories and it clicked. 于是我的毕业论文
I ended up writing my senior thesis, 那门课的期末论文写的就是自尊
my final paper for that class on self-esteem 最终发展成了我的学位论文
and that eventually became my dissertation. 我的博士论文写的就是这个话题
That's actually what I wrote my PHD on,this topic. 所以今天我想和大家分享
So what I want to do today is show with you some of the insights 我在童话课上的感悟及其他思想家
that I got in Fairy Tales as well as other thinkers 对于自尊话题的思考
who have been thinking about this topic of self-esteem, 因为这非常重要
because it is important. 我以自尊的话题结束这门课程
It is not for nothing that 不是毫无缘由的
I end the course with the topic of self-esteem, 因为它是基础
because it is at the foundation, 是我们之前讲过的很多内容的核心
at the core of so many of the other things that we discussed, 无论是健康的婚恋关系
whether it's healthy relationships, 还是快乐
whether it's happiness in general, 无论是寻找优点 还是创造优点
whether it's benefit finding or benefit creating, 无论是被了解 还是被认可
whether it's being known rather than validated. 自尊涉及方方面面的内容
Self-esteem encompasses so many of these ideas. 我们要讲以下内容
So here is what we are gonna do. 首先 为什么自尊非常重要
First of all,we are going to talk about why is it important? 对于自尊的种种误解
A lot of misunderstanding about what self-esteem is and is not. 可以运用到生活中的
We are going to talk about some theories 一些理论
that can apply to our lives. 然后我们会细讲我刚才提到的矛盾
And then we'll elaborate on the paradox that I just talked about, 有时候成功
that sometimes success actually 会降低自尊
leads to lower levels of self-esteem. 为什么会这样 我们到时会解释
And why does that happen? We'll explain that.And 然后我会介绍我关于自尊的学位论文
then I'll introduce essentially my dissertation on self-esteem, 我把它分为三个清晰的部分
where I divided the one construct into three distinct components, 依赖性自尊
which are dependence self-esteem 即由他人表扬和认同而产生的自尊
self-esteem that is generated by others' praise or approval; 独立自尊 即内在产生的自尊
independence self-esteem - self-esteem that comes from within, 这种自尊不取决于
self-esteem that is not contingent 别人的评价 是自我生成的
on what other people say,self generated; 最后 无条件的自尊 也可以称作一种自然状态
and finally,unconditional self-esteem,or a state of being, 我们自然的存在感
where we simply and naturally exist. 我会讲到这三个层面的自尊
So I'll talk about these three levels 以及如何培养独立自尊
and how we can cultivate independent 及无条件自尊
as well as unconditional self-esteem. 最后 下节课我们会讲到
And finally we will end by next time by talking about 如何提高自尊水平
how we can enhance our levels of self-esteem. 很多人参加自尊讲座后
Now many people when they listen to a lecture on self-esteem, 会进行自我评估 认为
go into evaluation mode and say, "好了 我的自尊高吗?" 我说的"我"是说你们
"OK,so do I have high self-esteem?" - I meaning you; 或者"我的自尊比旁边那人高吗?
or "Is my self-esteem higher than the person sitting next to me, 比我伴侣或朋友高吗?"
or my partner or friend?" 回答是 你无法得知
And the answer to this question is you can't really know, 因为我们无法客观地衡量自尊
meaning we can't measure self-esteem "objectively". 我们还不知道它处在我们大脑哪个部位
We don't really where it is in the brain yet 也许10年20年后可以
we may be able to 10 years from now,20 years from now. 但这个问题不重要 就像"我快乐吗"一样
But that's not an important question,just like "Am I happy?" 也不是个重要问题
or not is not an important question, 它其实是一个误导人的问题
in fact a misleading question. 记住 你要问的应该是"如何才能变得更快乐?"
The question rather,remember,is "How can I become happier?" 自尊也是如此
The same with self-esteem 你要问的不是"我的自尊是高是低"
the question is not "Do I have high or low self-esteem?" 而是"如何才能提高自尊"
but rather "How can I enhance my self-esteem?" 因为我等一下会讲到 自尊越高越好
Because as I argue shortly,there cannot be too much self-esteem. 但有时候人们把自尊与自大
But sometimes people associate too much self-esteem to arrogance, 自负 自恋过多地联系在一起
conceit and narcissism. 这些不是自尊
It's not self-esteem. 恰恰相反 是缺乏自尊
In fact it is the exact opposite of it; it's lack thereof. 所以强烈的自我感是件好事
So having stronger sense of self is a good thing. 问题是"如何提升它?"
And the question is "How can I enhance it?" 今天 我的自尊比15年前
Today my self-esteem is higher than it was 我刚考虑这个问题时提升了很多
when I started thinking about it 15 years ago. 希望5或15年后
And hopefully 15 years or 5 years from now 会比今天还要高
it will be higher than it is today. 这是个终身的过程
It is a life-long process. 我们会谈这个终身过程是如何展开的
And we'll talk about how that life-long process unfolds 如何才能加快 加强这一过程
and what we can do to expedite it,to intensify it. 首先 自尊的定义
So first of all: definition of the self-esteem. 自尊有多种定义
There are numerous definitions. 我读几条重要思想家对此的认识
Let me read you just a few from the main thinkers in the area. 斯坦福大学教授Albert Bandura
So Albert Bandura,Stanford Professor, 解释了通向自尊的大门
explains gate to self-esteem, 说到人们是如何评估自我的 他是这样说的
quote in terms of how people evaluate themselves: "那些认为自己没有价值的人
"Those who express the sense of unworthiness 会被视为自尊较低
are said to have low self-esteem, 那些表现出自傲的人
or the person who is to express self-pride 会被视为自尊极高"
are said to hold themselves in highest esteem." 这一领域另一位著名思想家
Another well-known thinker in the area, Germain认为自尊是
Germain defines self-esteem as "对于自我的评判与感受"
"the judgment and feelings about the self." - 非常简单 对于自我的评判与感受
Very simply: the judgment and feelings about the self. Coopersmith 该领域最重要的思想家之一
Coopersmith,one of the most important thinkers in the area: "自尊是个体作出的
"Self-esteem is an evaluation which individual makes 并经常保持的对自己的评价
and customarily maintains with regard to himself. 表达了一种对自己赞许或不赞许的态度
It expresses an attitude of approval or disapproval 标志了个体对自己能力 身份
and indicates the extent to which individual believes himself 成就及价值的信心"
to be capable,significant,successful and worthy." 能力 身份 成就 价值
Capable,significant,successful and worthy. "简而言之 自尊是对自我价值的评判
"In short,self-esteem is a personal judgment of worthiness that 通过个人对于自我的态度表现出来"
is expressed in the attitudes individual holds toward himself." 所以自尊说的是我对自己的态度
It's about the attitude that I have toward myself. 是对自我概念的评估
It's the evaluative part of the self concept. 我对自尊作出的定义 在我的论文里也用过这个定义
The definition that I will use that I used in my dissertation 我认为这个定义最成功地道出了自尊的本质
and I think it captures the best what self-esteem is about 是Nathaniel Branden的理论
is Nathaniel Branden's. Nathaniel Branden
Nathaniel Branden, 被很多人称为美国乃至全世界的
considered by many to be the father of the self-esteem movement 自尊运动的先驱
in this country if not the world, 身为心理医生及哲学家
a therapist and philosopher that 他在这一领域研究了50年
has been working in the area for 50 years, 他对自尊做出了如下定义
defines self-esteem as following: "一种觉得自己
"the disposition to experience oneself 能够应付生活中的基本挑战
as competent to cope with the basic challenges of life 值得享受快乐的感觉"
and as worthy of happiness." 两个组成部分 能力感
Two components - the feeling,the experience of competence 价值感
and the feeling and experience of worthiness. 两者都很重要
Both are important. 缺少任何一个 自尊就会很低
If we lack one,we very often have low self-esteem. 个人体会: 我觉得自己能胜任手头的工作
Personal example: I felt very competent at what I was doing, 无论是在壁球场上
whether it was on the squash court, 还是婚恋关系中
whether it was in relationships, 还是学术领域 但是我的自尊仍旧很低
whether it was academically,and yet my self-esteem was low, 因为我缺少自尊的
because I didn't have the worthiness component 价值感这个组成部分
now I know of self-esteem. 所以光有一个是不够的 要两者兼备
So one or the other are not enough - we need both. Nathaniel Branden继续说
Nathaniel Branden continues: "我们在生活中作出的所有判断
"Of all the judgments we pass in our lives, 没有哪个比对自己作出的判断更重要了"
none is as important as the one we pass on ourselves." 为什么 因为我们时刻有自我意识
Why? Because we are constantly with ourselves. 它影响我们生活的各个领域 我们孤身一人时
It affects every area of our lives when we are alone, 与别人在一起时 工作时
when we are with others,when we are at work,when we are doing, 独自工作时 与人合作时
when we are working by ourselves,when we are in a team. 歌德说过"降临于人最大的邪恶是
As Goethe said,"The greatest evil that can befall man is that 让他否认自己"
he should come to think ill of himself." 所以高自尊非常重要 或者说
So high self-esteem is important or self-esteem is 自我感很重要
the sense of self is important. 但是如果我们环顾四周
And yet,if we look around us, 反省自身 会发现还有很多改进空间
if we look within us,there's much room for improvement. 有些人多 有些人少
Some people more than others, 但每个人都有一定的改进空间
but for everyone,there's room for improvement. 以下是高自尊的一些益处
Here are some of the benefits associated with high self-esteem. 首先 心理健康
First of all,mental health. 心理抵抗能力和应付困难的能力加强
High levels of resilience,dealing with difficulties 从6岁孩童到96岁老人都是这样
this applies to kids who are 6 years old,or to 96 year olds. 纵观一生 自尊程度越高
Throughout our lives,the higher levels of self-esteem, 心理抵抗能力越强
the more resilient we are, 能更好地应对焦虑 抑郁
the better we are able to deal with anxiety,with depression, 各种无法避免的困境
with inevitable hardships that arise. 改善人际关系
Relationships improve. 这点非常适用于
This applies very much 婚恋关系 我们稍后会讲到
as we'll see later to romantic relationships; 同样适用于友谊
it applies as much to friendships; 和家庭关系
it applies as much to family relationships. Branden说 自我概念就是命运
In the words of Branden: Self concept is destiny. 信念或自我实现预言
Beliefs or self-fulfilling prophecy 如果我相信自己 相信自己值得快乐
if I think of myself,believe in myself,believe that I'm worthy, 相信自己有能力
that I'm capable of a lot, 那么我成功的可能性更大
I will,I'm much more likely to succeed. 还记得John Carlton提出的
Remember the two predictors John Carlton 哈佛商学院研究生成功的两个因素吗
had for highly successful HBS grads: 第一条是他们总是问问题
the first one was that they were always asking questions, 总是想学习更多
always wanting to learn more. 第二条是他们相信自己
The second was they believed in themselves. 这使他们在其他成功者中脱颖而出
This was what distinguished,the most successful from the rest. 自我概念即命运
Self concept is destiny. Daniel Goleman普及的情商概念
Emotional intelligence,a concept popularized by Daniel Goleman, 最早是由耶鲁大学的Salovey
initially introduced by Salovey from Yale, 和哈佛大学的Gartner提出的
by Gartner from Harvard. 我们对他人的情感
How affective we are with others, 我们的人际智能 这些合起来
our inter-personal intelligence together 使得自尊高的人
making emotional intelligence 情商高很多
much higher for people with high levels of self-esteem. 最后 快乐
And finally,the subtotal happiness. 无论是我的研究 还是其他人的研究
In my research as well as other people's research, 自尊与快乐的相关系数都超过0.6
the correlation between self-esteem and happiness is above .6 – 这一数字相当高 虽然它不是快乐唯一的决定因素
very high correlation,not the only determinant, 但绝对是主要决定因素之一
but certainly one of the major determinants of happiness. 另一方面 低自尊常常与焦虑并存
On the other hand,low self-esteem is associated with anxiety. 我说的不是自然的焦虑
I'm not talking about the natural kind of anxiety. 如果我站在悬崖边
If I'm standing on the cliff, 往下看时感到焦虑 这很自然
and I feel some anxiety looking down,that's natural. 这是健康的
That's healthy. 人的天性 经历这种焦虑很重要
Permission to be human - it's important to experience anxiety. 这很自然
It's natural. 人人都会感受到 就像万有引力定律
We all do it,just like the law of gravity. 是我们的生理天性之一
It's part of our physical nature. 焦虑是人的天性之一
Anxiety is part of human nature. 不健康的焦虑
But anxiety that is unhealthy 是指毫无缘由的焦虑
is one that is for no apparent reason. Branden称之为自尊焦虑
Again,Branden calls it self-esteem anxiety. 半夜突然醒来
Suddenly waking up in the middle of night 感到毫无缘由的焦虑
and feeling anxiety for no apparent reason, 或者日常生活中经常感到一种焦虑感或恐惧感
or going through life generally with a sense of anx or fear, 却不明白是为了什么
not really clear,not really sure of what. 这通常是低自尊的症状 抑郁
That is very often the symptom of low self-esteem.Depression. 我们时刻有自我意识
Again we are constantly spending time with ourselves. 我们时刻关注自己的脑袋
We are constantly inside of our minds - 我时常在评估自己
the I is constantly evaluating the me. 如果评估显示不够格
And if the evaluation is wanting, 如果评估很低 通常会导致抑郁
if it's low,very often it leads to depression. 身心失调症状包括失眠 患病
Psychosomatic symptoms include insomnia,include getting sick, 因为我们的免疫系统变得脆弱
because our immune system is lower - 生理免疫系统变得脆弱
physical immune system is lower and so on. 自我概念即命运
Self concept is destiny. 它是我们取得最高效率的原因
It applies to our top performance; 也是我们取得最差表现的原因
it applies to our worst performance as well. 成绩差的学生通常…
School children who are under achievers very often - 自尊较低
that's associated or the result of low self-esteem. Nathaniel Branden把自尊称为
Nathaniel Branden calls self-esteem "意识的免疫系统"
"the immune system of consciousness". 意识的免疫系统
The immune system of consciousness 我们自尊较高时
when we have high self-esteem, 心理抵抗能力更强
it means we are more resilient psychologically. 记住 强健的免疫系统并不意味着不会生病
Remember,a strong immune system does not mean we don't get sick. 而是较少得病
It means we get sick but less often; 如果生病了 能更迅速地恢复
and when we do get sick,we recover more promptly. 意识的免疫系统
The immune system of consciousness. 强健的意识疫系统 意味着我们常快乐少生病
It means that sickness is the exception; well being is the rule. 意味着我们追求快乐
It means that we are pursuing happiness, 而不是躲避不快乐
rather than constantly running away from unhappiness. 这些是高自尊与低自尊的区别
These are all signs of high self-esteem versus low self-esteem 心理抵抗能力
resilient psychology. Bednar与Peterson
Bednar and Peterson, 该领域两位研究者提出了一个问题
two researchers in the area asked the question, "大多数心理问题或精神病
"What is the underlying cause,or is there an underlying cause 根本病因是什么 或者说有没有根本病因?"
to most psychological disorders and ailments?" 他们提出了一个构想
And what they came up with was one construct, 即自尊
and that was self-esteem. 自尊至关重要
Self-esteem is critical. 首先 在理解层面
First of all in understanding, 理解各种情绪及行为问题
in understanding many of the emotional and behavioral problems; 其次 治疗大多数 并不是所有
and second,in terms of most,not all,but most of the emotional 情绪及行为问题 自尊都是核心
and behavioral problems - self-esteem at the core. 最后 它不仅适用于个人
Finally it doesn't just apply on the individual level, 还适用于社会层面
it also applies on the societal level. 政府成立的加州健康专责小组
It was California Task Force by the government 将自尊称为社会疫苗
that coined self-esteem as a social vaccine, 因为他们发现自尊与…
because what they found was self-esteem was associated, 低自尊与药物滥用
low self-esteem was associated with substance abuse, 未成年怀孕 辍学 暴力及犯罪有关
teen pregnancy,school drop-out rates,violence and crime. 而高自尊恰恰相反
And high self-esteem: that the opposite 能帮助克服这些社会顽疾
help overcome these social ailments. 虽然不是万灵药 但在各个方面起到了积极作用
Again,not a panacea,but helps in many ways. 所以自尊是好的
So self-esteem is good. 非常重要
Self-esteem in fact is great,is important. 但在研究自尊这个领域里 不是所有人都意见一致的
However not all is rosy in self-esteem land. 有一些反对的声音
And there are some criticisms, 有些甚至是该领域重要的思想家提出的
some criticisms by very important thinkers in the area. 其中之一是 佛罗里达州的Roy Baumeister提出的
One of them,the leading one is Roy Baumeister form Florida, 他将自尊等同于自大自负
equating self-esteem with arrogance and conceit. 因为如果你进行关于自恋的问卷调查
Because if you are taking a questionnaire and,of narcissism, 会发现自恋程度高的人
those who are high on narcissism 自尊分也非常高
will also score very high on a self-esteem measure. 但问题在这里
But here lies the problem. 你们阅读的论文
And here in the paper you are reading 至少可以反驳这种批评 当然还有其他的
is how we can debunk at least this criticism - there are others. 如果一个人自恋自大
You see,a person who is a narcissist, 自尊程度其实不高
who is arrogant,doesn't have high self-esteem. 这是常识
I mean we all know that's common sense. 一个像高傲的孔雀一样走进教室
Someone who walks into a room immediately looking like a peacock, 摆现炫耀
showing off,bragging 这人一定是高自尊吗 不一定
does that person have high self-esteem? Probably not. 一个谦虚不摆现的人
A person who is humble,who doesn't need constantly show off 往往自尊程度更高
is usually the person with higher levels of self-esteem. 正如Rolly May
As Rollo May, 人本主义心理学运动创始人说过
one of the founders of humanistic psychology movement says, "软弱的人变成恶霸
"The person who feels weak becomes a bully, 自卑的人变成吹牛大王
the inferior person a braggart; 炫耀武力 夸夸其谈 骄傲自大
a flexing of muscles,much talk,cockiness, 厚颜无耻
an endeavor to brazen it out, 都是个人或集体隐匿的焦虑症状
are symptoms of covert anxiety in a person or a group." 这与自尊恰恰相反
It's the exact opposite of self-esteem. 可惜 如今我们评估自尊的方法
Unfortunately today our measures of self-esteem 都是通过问卷调查进行
are through questionnaires. 如果你问一个自恋者 "你自尊高吗"
And if you ask a narcissist,"Do you have high self-esteem", 回答当然是 是
the answer will of course be yes. 但是当今大多数
However,the questionnaires are not so, 问卷调查还没有复杂到
most of the questionnaires are not sophisticated enough today 足以区分真自尊
to differentiate between true self-esteem 和Nathaniel Branden所说的伪自尊
and what Nathaniel Branden calls,pseudo self-esteem, 自我效能与自尊心的伪装
the pretense of self-efficacy and self-respect. 不久的将来我们将能更客观的衡量它们
Soon we'll be able to measure that much more objectively. 这是把自尊等同自恋的批评 但是还有其他批评
So that's for narcissism.But there are other criticisms. 其中一个认为 自尊
And that is that self-esteem, 高自尊会使人过分高估自己
high self-esteem leads to unrealistic evaluation 最终对人造成伤害
and that ultimately hurts people. 我来读一段时代周刊的报道
Let me read you something from Times magazine 这篇报道是讲全世界各国13岁孩子
a report about a certain test that was given to kids 13 year olds 进行的一次测验
in different countries around the world. 去年 6个国家的13岁孩子
A standardized math test was given to 13 year olds 做了一次标准化数学测验
in 6 countries last year. 韩国孩子表现最好
Koreans did the best; 美国孩子表现最差 排在西班牙 芬兰 加拿大之后
Americans did the worst,coming behind Spain,Ireland,and Canada 坏消息是  除了三角与等式外
Now the bad news: besides being shown triangles and equations, 试卷上还有一道判断题"我擅长数学"
the kids were shown the statement "I'm good at mathematics." 美国孩子居然有68%选"是" 排在第一
Americans were No.1 with an impressive 68 percent in agreement. 美国孩子可能不懂数学
American students may not know their math 但显然他们对新式的自尊课程
but they have evidently absorbed the lessons 掌握的非常好
of the newly fashionable self-esteem curriculum, 这些课程教会孩子们自我感觉良好
wherein kids are taught to feel good about themselves. 这些课程教会孩子们自我感觉良好
Wherein kids are taught to feel good about themselves 我还要再加句"无论做什么"
and I will add "no matter what". 因为很多老师
Because teachers,many teachers have learned 不分青红皂白地给予赞美 为什么?
to just give indiscriminant praise - why? 因为自尊是好的 是社会疫苗
Because self-esteem is good,it's a social vaccine 有很多研究支持这一点
and there's a lot of research to back that up. 那如何提高自尊呢
And how do you enhance self-esteem? - 要不停跟他们说"哦 你真厉害
By showering people with "Oh,you are terrific! 你太棒了 你真行"
You are wonderful! You are great!" 但结果显示 这对学生们并没有帮助
But that,it turns out does not help these students. 事实上 长期来看…短期内感觉良好
In fact,in the long run - in the short term,it feels good, 但长期来看反而降低了他们的学习动力
but in the long term it actually reduces their motivation to work 让他们变得不切实际
it makes them unrealistic; 长期来看
and in the long run, 反而减低了他们本来可能获得的快乐
it makes them less happy than they potentially could have been. 产生了反效果
In fact,it boomerangs. 所以 意图是好的
Again with good intentions 因为老师们想提高学生的自尊
because they want to raise their self-esteem. 那如何拯救自尊呢?
So how do we salvage self-esteem's self-esteem? 需要先理解它的真实性质
By understanding its true nature. 首先 自尊不是空洞的心理强化能够产生的
First of all,self-esteem is not a product of empty reinforcement 哦 你真棒 你好厉害
Oh you are wonderful;you are terrific; 你真行 不管是不是都赞扬
you are great - no matter what. 长期来看还会损害自尊
That hurts self-esteem in the long term. 自尊必须与伪自尊区分开
Self-esteem has to be distinguished from pseudo self-esteem 也就是脱离现实的
once again the pretense of self-efficacy 虚假的自我效能与自我尊重
and self-respect without the reality. 那些不是自尊
That's not self-esteem; 那是自恋 脱离现实
that's narcissism; that's detachment from reality. 我们最近反复提到
And as we've been talking about constantly, 健康心理是要联系现实
psychological healthy is a function of connection to reality. 所以什么是自尊呢 自尊存在于现实中
So what is self-esteem? Self-esteem is founded in reality, 存在于真实的行动 真实的成功 与真实的实践中
in actual performance,in actual success,in actual practices. 它是努力的产物
It is a product of hard work. 好了 还记得2个月前我们讲到的成功的秘诀吗?
OK,do you remember the secret of success from 2 months ago? 乐观 相信自己 对所做之事充满热情
Optimism,belief in oneself,passion for what one is doing, 还有一点 努力奋斗
and finally,hard work. 这就是秘诀
That's secret. 这些都是我们早就知道的
Again,someone,something we all know, 都是基本常识
something that is commonsensical 引用伏尔泰的话"常识不一定人皆有之"
but again,common sense,in Voltaire's words,is not that common. Nathaniel Branden提出了培养自尊的
Nathaniel Branden talks about 6 practices 6条重要实践
that are important for the cultivation of self-esteem: 首先 正直
first,integrity. 你们本周读书报告主题就是
That's your response paper this week 如何提高正直意识
to raise levels of awareness about integrity. 正直是指言行一致
And integrity means a match between what we say and what we do, 小事大事
the little things and the big things, 无论是"我5点过5分到"
whether it's "I'll be there at 5 minutes after 5", 那就5点过5分到
being there at 5 minutes after 5; 还是"我这周去健身"
saying that "I'm going to work out this week", 那就要做到
and actually doing it. 因为我们沟通 说出每个词时
Because you see,when we communicate,when we utter words, 如果言行不一致
and we don't follow up on what we say, 那我们本质是在对自己说
what we are essentially communicating to ourselves: 我的话无关紧要 不重要
what I say is not important; it doesn't matter. 反之 我保持高度正直
Whereas I maintain high levels of integrity, 遵守诺言 当然没人是完美的
when I keep my words - again no one is perfect. 没人会是100%的正直 我们下次会讲到
No one has perfect integrity as we'll talk about next time. 但是我真诚的遵守诺言
But when I genuinely keep my word, 言行一致
when I follow up on what I say, 以低要求许诺 以高要求履诺
when I under-promise and over-deliver, 就是以行动对自己说
that's when I communicate to myself in action 还记得 自我知觉理论吗 通过行动
remember,self-perception theory - in action, 我对自己说 "我的话很重要 我很重要"
I communicate to myself,"My words matter; I matter." 所以要正直
So the practice of integrity. 要有自我察觉 了解你自己
The practice of self-awareness - know thyself. 也就是Branden说的自我意识
Self-consciousness,as Branden talks about. 目的性 有目标 自我协调的目标
Purposefulness,having goals,having self-concordant goals, 努力追求 有目标有使命地生活
pursuing them,living a life of purpose,of calling, 担起责任 记住 没人能帮你
taking responsibility - remember once again no one is coming. 只有靠你自己创造生活
It's up to you to make something of your lives. 要自我接纳
The practice of self-acceptance. 每天都要允许自己有人的天性
Permission to be human on a daily basis. 最后 要有主见
And finally,the practice of self-assertiveness: 该说不的时候说不
to say no when it's appropriate; 该说是的时候说是
to say yes when that is appropriate; 支持我们信仰的东西
to stand up for what we believe in. 这些实践经年累月能培养我们的自尊
These are the practices that over time cultivate self-esteem. 它们也是自尊的产物
And they are also the product of self-esteem 我们下次会详细讲
as we'll see next time, 这是个潜在的自我增强循环
it's a potential self-reinforcing loop. 这就是自尊 但还有一些问题需要解答
So this is what self-esteem is.But there are more problems. 自尊领域还有很多问题
There are more problems in self-esteem land. 还有一项重要的批评
Here is another important criticism. 很多研究表明
You see,a lot of research shows that 高自尊的人更慷慨
people with high self-esteem are more generous, 对他人更博爱
are more benevolent toward others. 总得来说他们都是好人
They are generally good.They are nice. 许多研究都表明这点 这很棒 很好
A lot research shows that.So that's wonderful,terrific. 但是
However, 还有很多研究结果恰恰相反
there is also a lot of research that chose the exact opposite 高自尊的人表现出反社会行为
that people with high self-esteem display anti-social behavior, 无论是对不认识的人
whether it's toward people they don't know, 尤其是对特别亲近的人
especially toward people close to them. 它与攻击性不合作的行为
It's been associated with aggressive 有所关联
and uncooperative behavior. 一些研究显示敌意程度
Levels of hostility associated with high self-esteem 也与高自尊有关
in some studies. 这些证据自相矛盾 无法解释
There are contradictory evidence - doesn't make sense. 自尊到底是怎么回事
What's going on in self-esteem land? 这个问题直到最近才弄清楚
Hasn't been resolved until recently. 对自尊的另一项批评 之前我提到过了
Another criticism of self-esteem is what I mentioned, 自尊的矛盾
the paradox of self-esteem. 我在大四时 在哈佛求学期间
You see,the praise that I received as a senior here 受到的表扬
or as a student here in general was, 基本上是基于事实的
the praise was based on reality. 我壁球打得很好 得到了赞扬
You know I did well in squash - I got praise for that; 学术成就优异 得到了表扬
I did well academically - I got praise for that. 所以都是真实的 基于现实的
So it was real; it was grounded in reality 但是我还是觉得自尊很低
and yet I still felt like I had low self-esteem. 事实上 我获得的赞扬越多
In fact,the more praise I got, 越觉得石块越重
in many ways I felt the rock became heavier 山坡越陡
and  the mountain steeper. 这点传统的自尊研究无法解释
And that is not explained by traditional self-esteem research. Bednar和Peterson谈到了这个矛盾
Bednar and Peterson talk about,they talk about this paradox. 他们在书中举了例子 这是我第一次看到
And they give examples in their book - this is the first place 有人谈论
where I found someone talking about something 我这么多年的经历
that I experienced for many years. 他们谈到了成功往往
They talked about the paradox where very often success 与低自尊共存的矛盾
is associated with low levels of self-esteem. 我读一段他们一位病人写的话
So let me read to you an account of a client that they had 他俩都是心理医生 非常成功
they are therapists - who has been very successful. 他在日记中这样写道
And here he is,writing his journal: "过去几年 我觉得生活毫无意义
"For the past several years,I felt that my life was meaningless. 这种状态非常讽刺
This was an ironic state of affairs 因为我事业有成
considering all I had accomplished. 亲朋好友总是赞美
Friends and relatives were always lauding me 我的外表与智慧
for my good looks and intelligence. 父母双方家中 我都是第一个
I was the first person on either side of my family 大学毕业生
to graduate from college, 而且是优秀荣誉毕业生
doing so with honors. 我在大型会计事务所有一份好工作
I had a good job with an important accounting firm. 不缺女伴
I had plenty of dates. 表面看上去 我的生活非常满足
By all outward appearances,my life was very fulfilling. 但我仍旧感到痛苦 日益沮丧
Yet I was miserable and felt increasingly depressed. 6个月的心理疗法帮助我
Six months of psychotherapy had helped me 瞥见了
to catch an occasional glimpse 我不快乐的潜在原因
of the underlying cause of my unhappiness. 似乎与我的低自尊
It always seemed to involve low self-esteem 或自我否定有关
or my disapproval of myself. 不知怎么 我似乎对自己评价很低
Somehow it seems like I really did have a low opinion of myself, 这点让我很困惑
but I found that idea confusing, 因为我生活很成功"
because of all the success in my life." Bednar与Peterson谈到了
Bednar and Peterson talked,talk about, 自尊的矛盾
or introduce there the paradox of self-esteem. 这是他们的叫法
That's what they call it. 自尊与成功没有关系
Self-esteem is not associated with success; 与社会地位 金钱没有关系
it's not associated with social status,with money; 而是与其他因素有关
it's associated with other elements. 事实上 这一矛盾经常显示
In fact,as the paradox shows very often, 越成功遇到的困难越多
more success leads to more difficulty in this realm. 我希望对这种困难进行研究
It was this difficulty that 并且的确进行了研究
I wanted to explore and explored in my research. 这就是我之前谈到的公式
And this is the formulation that I introduced. 第一层自尊 是依赖型自尊
The first level of self-esteem was a dependent self-esteem, 因为我觉得自尊是一个构想
because what I felt was that self-esteem was a construct, 这还不够
was not enough,was not enough. 还有各种矛盾
The contractions there were plenty; 还有自尊无法解释矛盾
the paradox there was not explained by the notion of self-esteem. 所以我把自尊分为了三个部分
So I divided self-esteem into three parts 根据Lovinger的理论
based on the work of Lovinger 1960年代 她的研究是建立在Maslow
she did her work back in the 60s,based on the work of Maslow, Carl Rogers以及Nathaniel Branden理论的基础上的
based on the work of Carl Rogers and Nathaniel Branden 他们都谈到了这些问题
who had talked about these things. 但是我们仍是小众
But again,we are not in the majority; 大多数人讲到自尊时
most people who talked about self-esteem talked about it 仍把它当做独立的概念
as a single construct. 第二层自尊
The second component: 不取决于其他因素的自尊
self-esteem that is not contingent on others; 第三层自尊 本质上
and finally the third component essentially 甚至不必把它称为自尊
does not even need to be called self-esteem 而是一种自我感
simply a sense of self. 让我一个个来细说
Let me begin with each one,describing each one. 我分析每层自尊时
And what I'll do in describing each one 会从自尊的两个组成部分去讲
is talk about the two components of self-esteem. 所以本质上是建立了一个2x3列联表
So essentially what I'll create is a three by two: 三层自尊
the three types of self-esteem, 每一层与价值感 或者说自我尊重的关系
each one - how it relates to worthiness,to self-respect; 与能力的关系
and how it relates to competence Nathaniel Branden理论里 自尊的两个组成部分
the two components of Nathaniel Branden's work. 首先
So first of all, 从价值感方面来看
in terms of worthiness - in terms of worthiness a person 高依赖型自尊的人 价值由他人决定
who has high dependent self-esteem is other determined. 他们喜欢 也需要别人的评估
They enjoy and they need the appraisal. 如果我讲座表现不错
If I do well in a lecture, 收到他人反馈让我感觉良好
and I get an external feedback that makes me great; 如果没得到正面反馈 我会感觉很糟糕
if I don't get great feedback,I feel awful. 如果我考试表现优异
If I do well on an exams, 得到助教或家长肯定 就感觉棒极了
I get good feedback from my TF or parents,I feel terrific. 如果有人说不喜欢我的某些言论
If someone tells me that they don't like something that I said, 我会感觉糟透了
I feel awful. 我的生活不断受到他人思想言论的影响
My life is constantly affected by what other people think or say, 甚至是我以为他们怎么想 他们的意思
or what I think that they think,or what I think that they mean. 不断的评估 其他人是怎么看我的
Constant evaluation - what do other people think of me? 仿佛他们是一面镜子
Like a looking glass - 仿佛从他们身上能看到镜中的自己一样
looking at other people as it reflects on me 把他们的评估当作自我感
and taking their evaluation as the sense of self that I have. 高依赖型自尊的人主要
People who have high dependent self-esteem are primarily, 不是全部
not only, 但主要是由他人的想法言论驱动的
but primarily motivated by what other people think and say. 我会从事高声望
I will choose a job that will yield the most prestige, 高社会地位的工作
the highest social status, 能给我带来最多的赞赏与表扬
that will yield the most accolades and praise. 我选择伴侣
I will choose a partner 会选择受大多数人喜爱的人
who I think most other people would approve of and like. 他们的自我感 取决于他人
Again,the sense of self - contingent on other people; 重要的决定
then important decision are made 都是根据别人的赞同或不赞同而做出的
based on other people's approval or disapproval. 第二 能力感
Second,sense of competence. 根据Branden理论 自尊的另一个组成部分
The second component of self-esteem according to Branden 来源于比较
comes through other comparison. 跟其他人比 我表现怎么样
How am I doing relative to other people? 如果考试中 我比其他人考得好 我会感觉很好
If I do better than others on the test,I feel great; 如果其他人考得比我好
if others do better than I do, 不管客观来说有多好或多差
no matter how objectively good or bad it is, 重要的是我跟其他人比表现怎么样
what matters is how I am doing relative to others. William James抓住了这一点
William James captured this. 他说 "我自以为掌握了心理学一切
He said,"I,who have staked my all in psychology, 如果有人比我更了解心理学 我会感到被羞辱"
am   when others know more psychology than I." 与他人比较
Compared to other people. 事实上 大多数心理学家都把自尊
In fact most psychologists have talked about self-esteem 等同于依赖型自尊
as dependent self-esteem. Cooley在他的著作中谈到了镜子的比喻
The work of Cooley,talking about the looking glass metaphor; 1934年Mead的著作
the work of Mead's,back in 1934, 谈到了依赖型自尊
talking about dependent self-esteem 我们根据他人言论或看法来评估自己
how we evaluate ourselves depends on what others say or think, 或者我们认为他们对我们的看法或言论
or what we perceive they think or say about us. 大多数思想家都谈到了这点
Most of the thinkers have talked about it. 这点形象地在童话中展示出来了
This is best captured; 我第一次上童话课时就想到了
this is what I thought about for the first time in Fairy Tales. 白雪公主里的邪恶皇后生动的表现了这点
This is best captured by the evil Queen: "魔镜魔镜告诉我 谁是世界上最美的女人"
"Mirror,mirror on the wall,who is the fairest of them all?" 只要魔镜说
And as long as the mirror says, "你 皇后陛下 你是世界上最美的女人" 她就觉得心满意足
"You,my Queen,you are the fairest of them all," she feels great 一旦有人比她更漂亮
As soon as there is one person who is more fair than thee, 她就觉得蒙受奇耻大辱
immediately she's mortified. 说明了这种自尊的两个特点
The two components of self-esteem here: 首先 由他人决定
first of all,the other determined. 我问镜子谁漂亮 而不是由我自己决定
I'm asking a mirror to evaluate me,not self-determined. 所以我的价值感来源于外部
So my worthiness comes from an external source. 第二 通过比较而获得能力感
And second,competence - I compare myself to others. 有人比我更美吗 依赖型自尊
Is there anyone who is fairer than I? Dependent self-esteem. 现在我似乎把依赖型自尊贬得一无是处
Now I've quite literally now caricatured dependent self-esteem. 让我再说的清楚点
Let me make this very clear. 每个人都有依赖型自尊
Everyone has some dependent self-esteem. 我从未遇见或听说任何人
There is no person that I've met or have heard of, 能完全不受他人想法言论
who is oblivious to what other people think or say, 或社会比较的的干扰
or to social comparisons. 这是人的天性的一部分
It's part of human nature. 要支配天性 就必须服从天性
Nature to be commanded must be obeyed. 反抗天性 只会让其加剧
If we fight it,it will only intensify, 这学期我们已经看到过很多这方面的例子了
as we've seen numerous examples throughout this semester. 允许自己有人的缺点
Permission to be human 依赖型自尊也是人性的一部分
and part of being human is that we all have some dependent self... 问题在于程度
The question is of degree. 理解这个模型的一个关键是
The important thing to understand about this model, 这三个层面是一个渐成模型
these three levels is that it's an epigenetic model. 渐成模型
It is an epigenetic model. 我也不知道这是什么意思
And I've no idea what that means.No. 渐成是指必须通过第一阶段
Epigenetic is that you first need to get past the first stage 才能到达第二阶段
in order to get to the second stage; 必须通过第二阶段
you first need to get past the second stage 才能到达第三阶段
in order to get to the third stage; 不能越过某一级 比如
that you cannot skip,for example, 从第一阶段直接到第三阶段 跳过了第二阶段
from stage 1 to stage 3 without going through 2. 所以每个人都有依赖型自尊
So everyone experiences dependent self-esteem always. 但是 如果我们有健康的依赖型自尊
However,after a time if we have a healthy dependence, 这很自然 我们小时候都经历过
which is natural,which we all have at an earlier age, 一段时间后就会变成独立型自尊
later on it becomes independent. 如果我们能培养健康的独立型自尊
And if we are able to cultivate a healthy independent self-esteem 就能达到无条件自尊
we go up to the unconditional self-esteem, 达到互相依赖型 也就是最高层次
to the state of inter-dependence,which is the highest level. 但是即使在最高层次 其他两种还是存在的
But even at the highest level,we still have reminisce. 我们会一直拥有依赖型
And we will always have elements of the dependent 及独立型自我感
as well as the independent sense of self. 研究一开始时
When I started doing my research initially, 我想把独立型与依赖型对比
I said,I depicted independent versus dependent 我当时还没有想到无条件型
I hadn't thought of unconditional at the time 想当然地认为独立型好 依赖型坏
as independent good,dependent bad. 我试图摆脱依赖型自我
And I tried to get rid of the dependent self. 结果它反而强化了
And what happened - it just simply intensified. 变得更强烈
It simply got stronger. 我变得更加依赖
And I became even more dependent; 然而 一旦我开始接受它
whereas as soon as I started to accept it 记住吗 我说过 允许自己有人的天性
remember,I talked about it,permission to be human 一旦我接受它为人性的一部分
as soon as I accepted it as part of human nature, 对我的影响反而小多了
it actually lost much of its power over me. 人人都有依赖型自尊 只是程度不同
Still there as it is for everyone,but the question is of degree. 第二个层面是独立型自尊
The second level self-esteem,independent self-esteem. 顾名思义
As its name suggests, 这种自尊不取决于他人
that self-esteem - that's not contingent on other people. 在价值感方面
So in terms of worthiness, 我用自己的标准评估自己
I evaluate myself according to my own standards. 自我决定
I'm self-determined. 我自己评定写的书好不好
I determine how good a book that I wrote is. 最终的公断人是我自己 但我会参考
Ultimately - the ultimate arbiter: I do take into consideration 和听取其他人的意见
and listen to what other people are saying; 但是最终还是由我自己说了算
but at the end of the day I'm the one who decides. 在能力感方面 不与别人比较 而是与自己比较
Competence,not comparison to others but comparison to oneself. 我进步了吗 是不是比过去写得好了?
Have I improved? Am I better writer today than I was in the past? 我的数学是不是比
Do I know more math today than I knew 学期初进步了
at the beginning of the semester? 我是不是比一开始能运用更多的
Am I able to apply more things from positive psychology 积极心理学知识了?
than I applied initially? 不与室友比较
Not compared to my roommate 无论他懂的比我多还是少
who is applying so much more or so much less, 我只关注自己
but mostly focused on the self. 很多人都提到了这种自尊
Once again,people who wrote about this type of self-esteem: Nathaniel Branden  Abraham Maslow与Carl Rogers
Nathaniel Branden,Abraham Maslow,Carl Rogers, 还有其他很多人
and a handful of others. 有依赖型自尊的人
A person who has dependent self-esteem 需要不断寻求他人肯定
looks for constant approval, 害怕批评
is afraid of criticism, 经常与完美主义相连
very often is associated with perfectionism; 而拥有独立型自我感的人
whereas the person has independent sense of self 寻求批评
looks for criticism. 这样的人其实不断寻找"美丽的敌人"
In fact that person constantly looks for "beautiful enemies", 那些挑战他
people who will challenge him or her, 帮助他寻找真相的人
who will help them in their apprenticeship to the truth. 因为他们想要进步
Because they want to improve. 他们的动力 主要动力
Their motivation,their primary motivation is 是"我热爱什么?" "我喜欢什么?"
"What am I passionate about?" "What do I care about?" "我真正想做的是什么"
"What do I really,really want to do with my life?" 他们想追求自我调节的目标
They are about pursuing self-concordant goals. 我的一个朋友Maltimore Devano
A friend of mine,Maltimore Devano, 他是一位哲学家 写到自尊时曾说
philosopher writes about dependent self-esteem. 他是这么说有依整型自尊的人
He says this person answers or is associated with following: 我们说 想寻找真相
we say that we want the truth, 真正的意思是 我们希望自己是正确的
what do we mean is that we want to be correct. 我们说 想寻找真相
We say that we want the truth, 真正的意思是 我们希望自己是正确的
what do we mean is that we want to be correct. 许多依赖型自尊的人说
Many people with dependent self-esteem say, "是的 我正在追求真理
"Yes,I'm really pursuing what is right, 追求高尚"
what is true,what is noble", 但是实际上我们的动机
whereas actually the motivation 是为了保护自己免受批评 免受负面评价
is protecting the self from criticism,from negative evaluation, 避免这种依赖他人的自尊变得更低
from a lower sense of self-esteem that is contingent on others. 所以 不同于那些说想寻求真相
And once again,in contrast to saying we want the truth 其实只希望自己是正确的的人
meaning we want to be correct, 拥有独立型自尊的人
we have the person with independent self-esteem 想寻找美丽的敌人
who wants beautiful enemies, 他们才是正真追寻真相
who really is an apprentice to the truth. 总结一下 最初的2x2表
To summarize,initially the first two by two: 依赖型自尊 价值感由他人决定
dependent self-esteem - worthiness,determined by others. 我做一切主要是为了赞赏 表演
I do things for accolades,for praise primarily. 能力感 与他人相比我做得怎么样
And competence - how well I am doing relative to other people; 比他们好还是差
am I better or worse than them? 这决定了我的自尊
And that determines my self-esteem. 而独立型自尊的价值感和能力感是
In terms of my worthiness,in terms of independent self-esteem, 拿自己跟自己比罗 我进步了吗
I compare myself to myself - have I improved; 改进了吗 学到新东西了吗?
am I getting better; am I learning? 我的价值感是由我自己的评估决定
And my worthiness is determined by my own evaluation. 第三个层次 无条件自尊
Third level,unconditional self-esteem. 从多个角度看 这甚至不算是自尊
In many ways,this is not even self-esteem. 因为其中没有涉及自尊
Because there is no esteeming involved here. 第一部分 价值感
The first component,worthiness,not contingent 不取决于他人评价
it's not contingent on other people's evaluations; 也不取决于自我评价
it's not even contingent on my evaluation. 我有充分的自信 不参与任何评价
I'm confident enough not to be engaged in evaluations. 其次是能力感 互相依赖
In terms of competence,it's interdependent. 不把自己与他人比较
I don't compare myself to how well I am doing relative to others, 也不与自己比较
nor even how well I'm doing relative to myself. 我处于某种状态
I am in a state of being. 与他人互相依赖 同时又怡然自得
Interdependence with others - fully comfortable in my own skin. 比如
For example, 一个高依赖型自尊的人写书
a person writing a book who has high dependent self-esteem 他的动力主要是将要获得的
is primarily motivated by the accolades, 赞赏和表扬
by the praise she or he will get; 高依赖型自尊的人
a person who has high dependent,or, 还会把他的书与其他人的比较
and also by how well that book is doing relative to other books; 高独立型人格的人写书
a person with independent self-esteem writes a book 他的快乐与满足的来源是
and derives pleasure and satisfaction from writing better 通过改进写得比过去好了
than he or she did in the past,from improving, 还有对书的自我评价 这本书写得真好
as well as from self-evaluation of the book: this is good. 而无条件型自尊的人只是写书
A person who has unconditional self-esteem simply writes a book. 为什么? 因为一旦他们
Why? Because he or she once, 有灵感 就会写出一本好书
if they have a good idea,a good book to be out there, 他们从他人的好书中
they derive as much satisfaction, 也能获得同样的满足与乐趣
as much pleasure when they see another person's book,who is good 他们互相依靠
They are interdependent. 他们视自己为团体一员
They see themselves as one with others. 所有人都有一定程度的依赖型自尊
Once again,everyone has some components of dependence, 一定程度的独立型自尊
some components of independence, 以及一定程度的无条件自尊
and some components of unconditional self-esteem. 问题在于程度 模型是渐成型的
The question is of degree.The model is epigenetic. 通常需要一辈子时间
It takes a lifetime very often 把无条件自我培养得越来越强
to cultivate more and more of the unconditional self. 我和其他赞同无条件自尊的学者
Now one of the criticism is that I face 受到的批评之一是
and other writes who have written about unconditional self-esteem 要达到这种状态 "我不在乎
is that to be at this stage of "Well,I don't really care or 不是很在乎我受到批评还是评价"
don't care that much about whether I get criticism or evaluation" 就会变得与他人脱离了 对什么都不在乎
is that one becomes detached from others,that one does not care. 但情况不是这样
But that is not the case. 瞧
You see, 无条件自尊与佛教的超然
there are many parallels between unconditional self-esteem 有许多相似处
and the Buddhist conception of detachment. 我给你们读一段
Let me read to you something. 图丹却准法师的语录
This was written by the Buddhist nun,Thubten Chodron, "通常
and I quote: "Ordinarily, 我们受到批评或侮辱时 会变得非常不安
we become very upset when we are criticized or insulted. 我们财产被偷时 会变得异常愤怒
We are angry when our possessions are stolen; 如果期望已久的升职被别人抢去 我们会嫉妒
we are jealous if someone else gets the promotion we wanted; 我们以自己的外表体能为荣
we are proud of our looks or athletic ability. 相比之下 当我们达到了超然的境界
By contrast,when we reach the state of detachment, 我们的头脑变得更明晰
our mind becomes clearer 懂的享受事物的原本
and more capable of enjoying things for what they are. 我们懂得把握现在 欣赏事物的原本
We live more in the present,appreciating things as they are now, 不再对它们有诸多幻想
without fantasies about what they are or will be. 我们对别人的一举一动
We become less ego-sensitive 不再那么敏感"
to every action other people do in relation to us." 同时 超然或无条件自尊
Now at the same time,detachment or unconditional self-esteem 我正比较两者的相似点
which is the parallel that I'm drawing, 它们并不意味着冷漠
does not mean being indifferent 回避他人情感
or rejecting other people's feelings. 她继续说"相反地 当我们超然后
She continues,"On the contrary,when we are not attached, 我们与他人的关系变得更和谐
our relationships with others are harmonious, 事实上 我们更关心他们了
and in fact,we care more about them. 变得更有同情心 更同情他人"
We become more compassionate,more empathetic toward others." 超然或无条件自尊只是指
Detachment or unconditional self-esteem simply means that 我们让自己远离
we are distancing ourselves 羡慕嫉妒
or not experiencing as much feelings of jealousy, 高傲自卑
feelings of envy,constant superiority or inferiority, 与他人对比的情绪
ongoing comparison to others. 我们和他们融为一体
It means,on many levels,that we are one with them. 这就是研究结果
This is what the research shows. 事实上 你可以把无条件自尊
You know,in fact,you can think about 比作看电影
unconditional self-esteem as parallel to going to a movie. 你去电影院 然后呢
When you are going to a movie,what happens? 你与角色产生了共鸣
You are empathizing with the characters there. 当他们经历艰难困苦时
When they go through a hard time, 你在心里也经历了一回
you experience a hard time viscerally; 当他们获得成功时 你也觉得获得了成功
when they thrive and succeed,you thrive and succeed. 你和他们融为了一体
You are one with them. 为什么? 因为你的自我不受威胁
Why? Because your ego is not threatened 他们的成功没有威胁到你
you are not threatened by their success; 他们的美貌没有威胁到你
their good looks are not threatening to you; 他们的成功对你来说不是威胁
their successes are not a threat to you. 为什么? 因为这只是电影
Why? Because it's just a movie. 想象一下 如果我们能有这种情感
Now imagine: if we could have these emotions, 感受而不是对立
feelings with as opposed to against, 想象在真实生活中拥有这些情感
imagine we could have these emotions in real life, 这样的人会有多强大?
how much more powerful would they be? 这是电影的经历
This is the experience,again of a movie, 但对拥有高无条件自尊的人来说
but so much more powerful because it's real 会有多强大
of a person who has high levels of unconditional self-esteem. 培养自尊 无条件自尊需要时间
Cultivating self-esteem,unconditional self-esteem takes time. 这是一生的过程
It's a lifelong process. 类似学走路
In many ways,it's parallel to learning how to walk. 我们学走路是什么样的 一开始我们不会
What happens when we learn how to walk? Initially we can't. 一段时间后 我们会站起来 但需要帮助
After a while we are able to get up,but we need some help; 我们依靠椅子 父母支撑我们
we are dependent on a chair,on our parent to hold us, 依靠其他人
dependent on other people. 下一阶段 又过了一段时间 我们独立了
Next level - after a while,is independent. 能够自己走了
We are able to walk by ourselves. 但走的时候仍旧要想着抬脚
But we walk still by thinking about picking up this foot 而且觉得不安全
and we are precarious. 但我们是独立的
We are uncertain,but we are independent. 渐渐地 我们会自然的走了
Later on we simply and naturally walk. 不用再想着抬脚
We don't need to think about it constantly. 自我感与之相似
When it comes to a sense of self, 我们刚出生时 没有自我感
initially there is no sense of self when we are born. 一段时间后 自我感依赖于其他人
After a while,the sense of self is dependent on other people, 其他人的评价
other people's evaluation. 然后 过了一段时间
Then,after a while, 我们变得独立 不受他人影响
we become independent of what other people say, 试图坚持主见
or we try to assert our independence, 但是我们不断的评估自己
but we are constantly evaluating ourselves, 比较自己
constantly comparing ourselves. 最后 又过了一段时间
And then finally,after a while, 我们培养出来强烈的独立感
when we cultivate the strong sense of independence, 自然存在了
we simply and naturally exist. 这要顺其自然
That is if nature is allowed to take its course. 而这需要时间
And that takes time. David Schnarch谈到普通人到了50岁
David Schnarch talks about the average person at the age of 50 懂得被了解而不是被认可
becoming known rather than validated 这就是强烈的无条件自尊
strong unconditional self-esteem. Maslow认为人到了45或50岁
Maslow talks about the self-actualized person 才能自我实现
at the age of 45 or 50. 这就是无条件型自尊
That's unconditional self-esteem. 这需要时间 它是渐成的
It takes time; it's epigenetic. 但我们改进成长的这一过程
But the process itself,as we improve and grow, 是可以很愉悦的
is or can be as enjoyable, 就像学走路一样充满乐趣
as pleasurable as learning how to walk. 我们下周见
I'll see you next week. 



 Chapter 21: 自尊与自我实现


哈佛学习障碍协会
Harvard Learning Challenged Association 受到这门课的启发 我们将举行一个论坛
And we are hosting a forum inspired by this class 名叫学习缺陷
entitled Learning Disabilities 学习障碍和积极心理学
Learning Challenges and Positive Psychology 很多校内学生都有学习缺陷
A lot of students on campus are registered with learning disabilities 有些甚至有学习障碍
and even more have learning challenges 包括学习困难和长期拖延症
which can include a difficulty studying or chronic procrastination 而且 很多学习障碍
Also, a lot of learning disabilities 都与抑郁症高发率和低自尊有关
are associated with higher rates of depression and low self-esteem 所以在这个论坛上 我们会问
So in this forum, we hope to ask questions like "如何积极看待学习障碍?"
"How can we think positively about learning disabilities?" "我们如何用积极心理学
And "How can we use positive psychology 进一步探索这片研究领域?"
to further explore this field of studying?" 欢迎大家参加 不管是你有学习障碍
All are welcome, whether you have learning challenge 还是你的朋友
or your friend does 或者你最近遇到学习困难
or you just have a tough time studying 或者你只是感兴趣
or you are just interested 都请来参加
Please come and join us 时间很方便
It's convenient time 一周后 星期二11点半
one week from now, Tuesday 11:30 地点是Adams宿舍音乐院
at the Adams House Conservatory 就在入口和Adams宿舍的食堂中间
which is between the entrance and the dining hall of Adams House 记住在日程表上标出来了
So mark your calendars 这会是一次很愉快的讨论 希望到时能见到大家
It should a good discussion. We hope we'll see you there 非常谢谢
Thank you so much 我叫Holly
My name is Holly 我是校内一个协会的主席
And I'm the president of an organization on campus 这个协会叫哈佛大学领导才能协会
called the Leadership Institute at Harvard College David和我想简单跟大家介绍一下我们的协会
And David and I want to just quickly mention what the club does 我们的一位创立人就是你们的助教John Deutch
One of our founders actually is one of your TFs-John Deutch 他几年前开始成立这个协会
over here helped get the group started a few years back 简单来说 我们的协会组织各种活动
So very briefly what the club has-forming programs 旨在提高校内学生的领导能力
all aimed up promoting leadership on campus 我们有一个发展活动 在这个活动里 我们会请人
We have a development program where we bring in speakers 在研讨会和互动会上演讲
to work on workshops and interactive seminars 教会我们真正有用的技巧
that help all of us on really useful skills 例如主持会议 谈判 公众演讲
like running a meeting and negotiation and public speaking 这些活动对所有本科生免费开放
They are all free and open to all undergraduates 我们还会举行午餐会和论坛 让学生主席
We also enable collaboration between student presidents 总编辑
chief editors 校园队长进行合作
captains on campus through luncheons and discussion forums 我们还有一个拓展计划训练哈佛本科生
We have an outreach program where we train Harvard undergraduates 当领导才能课程的讲师
as instructors for leadership curriculum 我们有一个长达一年的活动 每周六举行
And we run a one year program on Saturdays 是和我们这里的Cambridge中学生一起参加的
with middle school students here at Cambridge 最后 我们正在成立一份专注于领导才能的杂志
And lastly, we are starting a student leadership focused magazine 在将来不久就会发行
that will be distributed in the future 大家好 我叫David Tebaldi
Hey guys, My name is David Tebaldi 我是领导才能协会发展领导才能活动的
I'm the leadership development initiative director 首要负责人
at the Leadership Institute 我来为大家简单介绍一下
I'm here to give you a little bit of idea 我们秋季会有什么活动
of what's in store for the fall 首先我们会举行主席论坛
First of all we have the Presidents Forum 这是一个聚集全校
which is a banquet that brings together the students all across the 学生领导的宴会
students leaders from all across the campus 他们会分享他们
to discuss their own experiences 对领导才能以及相关挑战的经验
with leadership and challenges related to that 然后我们会出版我们第一份杂志 非常激动人心
Afterwards we had a very first magazine coming out which is pretty exciting 里面会有很多文章关于以前
It'll have a lot of articles about leaders that we 主持过活动的领导
hosted the past events 以及他们在领导才能这方面的经验
and their own experience with leadership 我们接下来还会有很多活动 正如Holly刚才提到
We have a lot of other events following that as Holly mentioned before 我们会有关于谈判和公众演讲的活动
with negotiations and a lot of public speaking events are in store 如果你们想了解更多
If you'd like to know more 请搜索哈佛大学领导才能协会
you can just google leadership institute at Harvard college 大家就能找到我们的网页
and you should be able to find our website 谢谢你们
Thank you for your time 希望在下一年的活动上能看到大家
And I hope to see you at some of our events next year 我们今天早上和班上的助教吃了早餐
So we had a breakfast this morning with the teaching staff of this class 这是我们最后一次的早餐聚餐
It was our final breakfast get-together 我有点伤心
And I'm a little bit sad 希望上完这节课后我能开心一点
So hopefully I'll be happier by the end of the class 今天我们会讲完自尊
Today we'll finish up on self-esteem 下节课是我们最后一次上课
and the next time is the last time we meet 至少是这个学期
for this semester at least 我会总结一下我们讲过的内容
And I'll summarize what we have done 我们讲过的
where we have been 和我们将要讲的内容
and all the places that we will go 先回顾一下我们讲过的
Just a recap on what we did 就在幻灯片上
which is on the slide now 有很多研究
There's been a lot of research 有很多观点都说了自尊有多重要
a lot of talk of how important self-esteem is 自尊确实很重要
and it is important 有研究表明它与我们的健康
There's research suggesting that it's connected to our well being 成功有关 低自尊通常与犯罪
to our success that is inversely related to crime 药物滥用
substance abuse 心情低落 焦虑 抑郁有关
unhappiness, anxiety, depression 所以自尊很重要 这我们知道
So self-esteem is important - we know that 但是在自尊这个课题里 也不是天下太平的
However, not all was well in self-esteem land 我们上节课讲过了
as we discussed last time 问题之一就是自相矛盾的证据
Part of the problem is that there is contradictory evidence 一方面
On the one hand 高自尊的人通常都仁慈 慷慨和富有同情心
self-esteem is associated with benevolence and generosity and empathy 但另一方面
on the other hand 高自尊的人又会表现出敌意
high self-esteem has been shown to be associated with hostility 缺乏合作精神 有抵触情绪
lack of cooperation, defensiveness 另一个问题就是人们误解
There's also misunderstanding about or 自尊对表现的影响
about how self-esteem affects performance 对幸福的影响
how it affects happiness 以及当中的原因
and where that comes from 自尊的矛盾
The paradox of self-esteem 有时候我们觉得自己表现得很优秀
Sometimes we feel like we are doing so well 受到很多赞扬
we are getting so many accolades 但自尊上升后 很快又回落到基本水平
our self-esteem increases only to go back to its base level 甚至更糟
only worse 因为我们要尽更大努力
because now we have to do even more 才能让自尊回到基本水平
to come back to our base level of self-esteem 我们要得到更多的赞扬
have to get more accolades 取得更多的成就
more achievements 做什么都不够了
Nothing is enough anymore 所以有证明表明自尊的来源
So there are these contradictory evidence 以及它的后果
where self-esteem comes from 存在矛盾
and its consequences 解释这些矛盾的方法之一就是借鉴别人的研究
And one of the ways to explain it is by drawing on the work 例如Maslow
of people like Maslow Nathaniel Branden
people like Nathaniel Branden 或者Carl Rogers, Rollo May Lovinger
people like Carl Rogers, Rollo May. Lovinger 看看我们能怎么分解自尊的基本构成
to see how we can perhaps break down self-esteem into its components 这就是我的论文的内容
that's what my dissertation did 也是我上节课跟大家讲的内容
this is what I presented to you in the previous class 基本上就是讲了自尊这个领域里的研究人员的观点
basically take the ideas of the select field researchers 那些思考这个问题的人
who had been thinking about it 例如马路对面的教育学院的Robert Kegan
people like Robert Kegan across the road from the Ed school 他研究自尊的角度更倾向于发展心理学
thinking about self-esteem more developmentally 我给大家介绍了那个渐成模型 渐成
And I presented the epigenetic model – epigenetic 再说一次 它的意思就是必须实现了一层
once again, meaning that one level has to be fulfilled 或者至少部分实现了一层 才能去到下一层
or at least partly fulfilled before we can go the next level 这三层分别是依赖型自尊
And the three levels are dependent self-esteem 独立型自尊
independent self-esteem 和无条件型自尊
and unconditional self-esteem 依赖型自尊 它有两个构成部分
Dependent self-esteem - the two components of it 首先
first of all 有高度依赖性自尊的人时刻需要他人的赞扬
person with high dependence needs the accolades of others constantly 不管是选择职业 还是决定下午做什么这样的小事
chooses whether it's a career path or what to do this afternoon 都是根据他人的认同来做决定的
based on how much approval that will gain him or her 有依赖型自尊的人
Person with dependent self-esteem 在能力感方面
when it comes to competence 总是拿自己跟别人比较
always compares him or herself to others 我比他们好还是差? 比他们优秀还是不如他们?
Am I better or am I worse? Superior or inferior? 独立型自尊是一种取决于自我的自尊
Independent self-esteem is self-esteem that's contingent on the self 这样的人在评价自己时
in terms of how I evaluate myself 用的是自己的意见
that's my internal voice that's speaking 他们的能力感取决于
In terms of how my levels of competence are determined 自己认为自己进步了多少
it depends on how much I have improved 改善了多少
how much better I've got 觉得自己的潜力发挥了多少
how much I feel that I have fulfilled my potential 这就是独立型自尊
That's independent self-esteem 并不取决于他人的言论或想法
not contingent on what other people say or think 无条件型自尊是最高层次的自尊
Unconditional self-esteem is the highest level 也就是Maslow所说的"自我实现"
the level that Maslow would talk about - "the self-actualization" David Schnarch所说的"分化良好型"
what David Schnarch talks about as "differentiated" 想被了解 而不是被认可
or at the level of being known rather than desiring to be validated 无条件型自尊是指我们的自尊高到
Unconditional self-esteem is when our self-esteem is high enough 让我们对自己感觉很好
we feel good enough about ourselves 所以我们并不在乎别人怎么看自己
not to be concerned with evaluations with others 甚至不在乎自己怎么看自己
or even with self evaluations 在比较方面
In terms of comparison 我们不会比较 我们是相互依存的
we don't compare; we are inter-dependent 相互联系的
connected to others 我上节课举的一个例子是写书
So the example that I gave last time is of a book 假设我出版一本书 我是一个高度依赖型自尊的人
Let's say I publish a book and I have high dependent self-esteem 首先 我写这本书
First of all, I write it 我出版这本书 是为了得到赞扬
I publish it so that I can get accolades 我的首要动机是获得外界认同
My primary motivation is external approval 我的首要动机是想出版一本
My primary motivation is wanting to bring out a book 比别人的书都好的书
that will be better than the other books out there 相比较而获得的能力感 以及取决于外界
so relative competence as well as externally other-determined 又假设我写了一本书
So if I bring in a book and write a book 我是一个高度独立型自尊的人
and I have high independent self-esteem 我写了书 我自己评价
I write it and I evaluate it myself "这是一本好书"或者"这本书不怎么样
"this is good work, " or "this is not so good 需要修改"
needs improvement 在比较方面
In terms of comparison 我跟自己比较 "我比起刚开始写时进步了很多
I compare to myself - "I've improved a lot since I started writing 这本书比我之前一本要好
This book is actually better than my previous book 我的书写得更真实了"
My work has become more authentic, more real. " 这是独立型自尊的评价
That's independent self-esteem evaluation 无条件型自尊
Unconditional self-esteem 是我们所知的最高层次自尊
the highest level that we know of: 我写了一本书 我不在乎评价
I write a book and I'm not concerned about evaluation 不管它是好是坏 我当然想变得越来越好
whether it's good or bad - of course I want to be better and better 但这并不影响我对自己的感觉
but that doesn't affect how I feel about myself 我就是我
I simply exist 我写了这本书 我处于心流状态
I write the book; I'm in a state of flow 我体验这种经历
experiencing the experience 至于这本书是不是比别人的好
In terms of whether it's better than others 或者比我以前写的好
or better than I've written 这都不重要
it doesn't matter 我高兴的是
What I'm happy about 我写成了一本书
what makes me happy is bringing a good book into existence 如果别人也写了一本书
And I would be as happy 我也会同样替他感到高兴
if someone else wrote the book 别人写了一本更好的书 我会同样高兴 甚至更高兴
I'd be as happy or happier that someone else wrote a better book 这本书更能帮助到人
that can help others more 这个模型有很重要的一点是需要明白的
Important thing to understand about this model 我们从很小的年纪开始就有这三层自尊
the three levels is that we all have all three basically from a very young age 并非只有达赖喇嘛或特蕾沙修女
It's not that the Dalai Lama or Mother Teresa 曼德拉或者玛格丽特米德
or Nelson Mandela or Margaret Mead 这样的名人
that people who we know have been 才是自我实现的人
are self-actualized 他们并不是不在乎别人的看法
it's not that they don't care about what other people say 但他们
However, they are mostly 大部分时候
most of their lives, most of the time 都是自己决定的 做自己相信的事
self-determined - do what they believe in 和他人相互联系
feel a sense of connection to others 想让世界变得更美好
want to make the world a better place 但他们并非不在乎
But it's not that they don't care 并非他们评价自己时不会跟自己比较
it's not that they don't evaluate themselves relative to themselves 也不会跟他人比较
or relative to others 这是人的天性
That's part of human nature 我犯过一个错误 当我开始这个研究时
My error, when I started with this research 我跟自己说
was that I said to myself "好的 我想有独立型自尊"
"OK,I just want to have independent 当后来我明白无条件型自尊是什么时
and later when I understood what unconditional self-esteem 我说"我想有无条件型自尊"
I said, "Wel, I want to have unconditional self-esteem." 我把这两种自尊列为好的
And I situated those two on the good side 把依赖型自尊列为坏的
and dependent self-esteem, bad 结果呢?
And what then happened? 只加剧了我对他人的依赖
It only intensified my dependency on others 因为当我们有违天性时
Because when we fight nature 天性就会跟我们作对 我们赢不了
nature fights back and we can't win 就像第二节课一样
You know, it's like going back to the second class 如果我跟自己说
If I say to myself "Tal 别紧张 别紧张 别心急"
"Tal, don't be nervou, Don't be nervo, Don't be anxiou." 结果呢? 我看到粉红色大象出来了
What happens? The pink elephants begin to come out 我变得更焦虑更紧张了
And I become even more anxious and more nervous 但当我接受这种天性时
whereas I accept it is part of my nature 放任它 不强求自己
Let it be – permission to be human 它就顿时威力大减
It loses a lot of its vitality and force and control 因为我可以说
Cause I can say "好的 这个人不喜欢我的书 我无所谓
"OK. Yes, I care that this person didn't like my book 不喜欢我的课 无所谓"
didn't like my class 我接受它 这是天性 我会伤心
And I accepted it, It's nature, It hurts me 我当然想他们都喜欢
I would much rather that they all like it 但转念一想 我就想通了
But I can move on then, and said "我要怎样做才能活出自我?
"OK,what would the most authentic life that I can lead? 我作为一个老师要怎样才能被了解
How can I the teacher who is known as opposed 而不是整天想着得到别人的认同?"
to constantly concerned about validation?" 积极接受 回顾一下
Active acceptance. Revisited 接受我的天性 然后决定
Accepting my nature and then deciding 最合适的做法是什么
what would the most appropriate action to take 我的榜样之一是Warren Bennis
One of the, my role models is Warren Bennis Warren Bennis在领导才能这个领域
Warren Bennis has done a lot of research and a lot of speaking 做过很多研究 演讲和工作
and a lot of work in the area of leadership 他先在南加州大学教旁听课
He teaches audit in University of Southern California 后来才来哈佛和麻省理工
was before he was at Harvard and MIT 他来哈佛商学院教了三年
And he came to Harvard Business School for three years 第一年 作为一个客座教授
and the first year - as a visiting professor 第一年我上了他的班
The first year I took his class 一次非常特别的经历
which was an extraordinary experience 第二年他教那个班时
The second year when he taught it 我当了他的助教
I was his teaching assistant 我经常和他一起工作 互动
And I used to work a lot with him and interact with him 我经常为Warren折服
and was constantly amazed by Warren Warren当时80岁 他现在83岁了
Warren, at the time was 80 years old - now he's 83 他走进教室时 整间教室都亮了起来
would walk into the room and the room would light up 他的微笑 姿势 直率
It was his smile, his posture, his openness 他丰富的表达
his expressiveness 都是为了和同学发生互动
was there about his interacting with people 他的一举一动让其他人
and making the other person just by being there 对自己感觉更好了
feel better about themselves 他自信坚强
And he was confident and strong 我把这样的人视为自我实现的人
and what I would classify as self-actualized as a person 他有很高的无条件自尊
with very high unconditional self-esteem 我们走得很近 他在很多方面都给了我帮助
And we became very close and he helped me in many areas 最大的帮助就是他活出自我 我观察他
most of all just by being himself - me observing him 学习他 吸收他给这个世界带来的东西
learning from him, assimilating what he had to give the world 吸收他每天给数百万读他的书的人
and what he was giving day in and day out 听他演讲的人
to thousands and millions of people who have read his books 和他有过接触的人
who have been to his lectures 所带来的知识
who've had the privilege of interacting with him 几年后 有一天
And one day after a couple of years 我是他的助教
I was his TA 我们关系很亲近
and we were close 我跟他说
I said to him "Warren 你是怎么变成现在这样的?"
"Warren, how is it that you are like this?" 你是怎么变成现在这样的?
How is it that you are like this? 他的回应时 把手放在我肩膀
And his response was put his hand on my shoulder 看着我 带着一个平静
looked at me with his calm 接受 慷慨的微笑 说
accepting, giving smile, and said "Tal 我不是一出生就这样的"
"Tal. I wasn't always like this" 他就只说了这一句
And that's where he left it 这就是我需要听到的答案
And this is what I needed to hear 因为在他的回答里
Because in his response 有很多重要的信息
where two very important - many more 而最重要的两个信息是
but two very important messages 第一个 他是慢慢进步成这样的
the first message is that it evolves 需要时间 你不会在20岁时 或者40岁时
it takes time; you don't become third level 一夜之间 去到第三层自尊
self-actualized individual overnight at the age of 20 变成一个自我实现的人
or even at the age of 40 需要时间 需要下功夫
It takes time; it takes work; it takes self-awareness 需要一次次跌倒和站起来
it takes falling down and getting up 学会失败
learning to fail 然后从失败中学习
then learning from that failure 需要学习接受自己
It takes learning to accept oneself 需要敞开心扉 接受伤害 犯错
it takes being open and being vulnerable and making mistakes 需要做一个彻彻底底的人
it takes being human, fully human 我不是一出生就这样的
I was not always like this 他的回答中第二个信息是
The second message that I got from this Warren很真诚
is that Warren was genuine 他很真实 他没有跟我说
He was real. He didn't say to me "Tal 别夸我
"Oh Tal, stop 我也不是很厉害 过奖了"
Not really. Come on. Thank you" 他没有这样
But no 他很真诚 他知道自己的价值
He was real. He knows his worth 他自信
He's confident 他没有虚伪的谦虚
There was no false modesty involved 这让我想起
and it reminded me 当我开始思考自尊时
that when I started to think about self-esteem 自尊的真正意义
and the true meaning of self-esteem Branden的著作中所写的意义
as you read in Branden's work 对了 他和Nathaniel Branden是好朋友
by the way, he and Nathaniel Branden are good friends 当我开始读Branden的著作时
When I started reading Branden 当我明白真正的自尊是什么时
and when I realized what real self-esteem was about 我明白有高自尊的人都是谦虚的
I realized that people with high levels of self-esteem are modest 你不需要显摆
You don't have the need to show off 你们知道 自大
You know, arrogance 自恋是自尊的对立
narcissism is the exact opposite of self-esteem 目中无人 自以为是
hubris, foolish pride is the exact opposite 跟真正意义上的自我感是完全对立的
of what a true sense of self is 所以当我明白了这点以后
So when I understood that 我的一个重要目标就是变得
one of my important goals was to become 谦虚 最重要的目标
more importantly to be - modest 所以我越来越觉得
And it was incredibly important for me 要让大家都知道我很谦虚
that everyone knows how modest I was 英国哲学家Francis Bacon说
You know. Francis Bacon, the British philosopher 谦虚不过是换了个法子在显摆而已
said that modesty is but another form of ostentation 这句话用在我身上最合适不过了
And for me that certainly was the case 但对别人来说不总是这样
it's not always the case 我认为Warren Bennis是真正的谦虚
I think Warren Bennis is modest and truly modest 我认为曼德拉
I think Nelson Mandela 当他谦虚时 他是真正的谦虚
when he is being modest, he really is modest 但问题是 你怎样才能达到那种层次的谦虚?
But the question is: how do you get to that level of modesty? 你要达到那种层次的谦虚 方法就是活出自我
And you get to this level of modesty by being authentic 活得真实
by being real 走完这个过程
by going through the process 这个过程就像我们上节课说的那样
And the process in many ways as we described last time 就像学习走路
is like learning how to walk 我们刚生出来时
Initially when we are born 我们连走路是什么都不知道
we have no idea what walking even is 但慢慢地
Then later on 我们能站起来
we are able to get up 但我们需要别人扶着
but we need support either of another person 或者靠着什么东西
or something to lean on 例如 我们靠着桌子小心地走出第一步
And we take our first precarious steps around a desk, for example 慢慢地我们可以自己走了
And after a while we can walk without help 但我们还是要想着每一步怎么迈
But we are still thinking about every step 我们跌倒了就再爬起来
and we fall down and get up again 学会失败 或者一错再错
learn to fail or fail to learn 然后我们继续走
And then we continue walking 我们心里时刻想着怎么抬起这条腿
and we are very conscious of how we pick up this leg 当你观察婴儿学走路时
When you watch a baby learn how to walk 会觉得很神奇
it's fascinating 他们需要调动很多东西 才能完成
So many things have come together for this simple 这么简单的一个动作
seemingly simple action 过了一段时间后
And then after a while 婴儿变得更自信了
the baby becomes more confident 她开始跑了
And she begins to run 她不再想着怎么走或跑
And she no longer has to think about walking or running 因为她自然地
because then she naturally 就会走了
she simply walks 自我感也是这样 一开始
Same with the sense of self: initially 我们没有自我感
we have no sense of self 区分不开"我"和妈妈
there's no differentiation between the "me" and the mom 或者世界上其他物件
or other objects in the world 慢慢地我们发展出自我感
Gradually, we develop a sense of self 但这个自我感是完全依赖外界的
but that sense of self is completely dependent 不管是身体上还是心理上
physically as well as psychologically 我们都依赖于父母
we are dependent on our parents 重要的大人
significant adults 哥哥或姐姐
older sibling 然后过了一段时间
And then after a while 通常是到我们进入青春期后
that usually happens when we are teenagers 我们开始获得独立
we begin to assert our independence 这时我们开始渴望
That's when we begin to desire 听到自己的声音
want to hear our own voice 想让别人听到自己的声音
want to make our own voice heard 青春期这段时间很难
That's the difficult teenage years 对青少年来说难
difficult for the teenager 对父母来说也难
difficult for the parent 但这是自然的
But it's natural 是进化的必经步骤
It's part of evolution 这时候我们需要我们的界限
And we need our boundaries at that time 但同时
And at the same time 我们有时候又需要打破界限
we need to sometimes break boundaries 我们需要试探现实
We need to test reality 确定自我
Assert ourselves 然后随着时间过去
And then over time 如果我们这么做
when we do that 随着时间过去 我们同时开始一个新过程
over time we begin a new process simultaneously 这个过程就是真正的分化
And that is the process of real differentiation 这时候独立的自我变得太强烈
where the independent self becomes so strong 我们能够和他们联系
that we are able to connect to others as well 再一次 引用回讲恋爱课的内容
Once again, going back to relationship Nathaniel Branden说过 我们越独立
Nathaniel Branden: the more independent we become 我们就越互相依存
the more interdependent we can be 然后我们进步 这需要很长时间
And then we evolve and that takes a long time 如果我们没有依赖的一面 例如
And if we have missed out on the dependent side – for example 如果我们年少时没有得到任何赞扬
if we didn't get any accolades and any praise 或者用Carl Rogers的话来说无条件的
and unconditional self-regard in the words of Carl Rogers 自我关注
when we are younger 我们就会有这个需求 回忆一下那个渐成模型
then we have that need - remember the model of epigeneti 我们不能跳过一层
we can't jump over a stage 通常我们需要一个治疗师
And very often it would take a therapist 帮助我们找到无条件的自我关注
to provide us with unconditional self-regard 这样我们就能到达下一层
so that we can go to the next level 或者我们需要一段关系
Or we need a relationship 或几段关系帮助我们培养无条件的自我关注
or relationships where we cultivate unconditional self-regard 这样我们就能到达下一层
so that we can go to the next stage 如果…
And if we were 如果我们在青少年时期
when we were teenagers 不停地有人叫我们安静
constantly told to be quiet 守规矩 阻止我们确立自我
to behave, prevented from asserting ourselves 活出自我
being ourselves 那么我们就不可能顺利地
then we are unlikely to get to the next level 到达下一层
in a smooth way 通常在以后的生活里 我们需要做的事就是
And then very often later on in life we need to do 首先要确立自己
that first to assert ourselves 就像青少年那样
like teenagers did or do 这样就能到达下一层
so that we can make it to the next level 但不管怎样 这个过程不会顺顺利利
But regardless this is not a smooth transition 为什么? 因为天下没有完美的父母
Why? Because there are no perfect parents 因为天下没有完美的成长环境
because there is no perfect environment 没有完美的老师帮助我们自然而顺利地
there are no perfect teachers and for us to evolve naturally 通过这些阶段
and smoothly through the stages 这是不现实的
it's just unrealistic 在地球上不存在
doesn't exis, not here on earth 我们在艰苦中随着时间进步
And then we evolve over time through the hardships 克服困难
through the difficulties 犯错 跌倒
making mistakes, falling 再爬起来
getting up again 慢慢地独立的自我
gradually the interdependent self 无条件的自尊开始浮现
the unconditional self-esteem emerges 我们对自己更有自信
And we feel much more comfortable in our skin Maslow说他没见过
Maslow said that he didn't find people 有45岁以下就自我实现的人
below the age of 45 who were self-actualized 即使是那些自我实现的人
And even those self-actualized people 仍然有残留的一丝丝独立型自尊
still have remnants of independent 和依赖型自尊
as well as dependent self-esteem 这种自尊是不会彻底消失的
It never really goes away 但它这时变弱了
But it's only weaker now 它不占主导地位 这时的人不再执着于
It's not dominant; it's not what they are about 获得更多赞扬
the next accolade, the next praise 当别人不喜欢他们时就伤心欲绝
being devastated when someone doesn't like them 当自己不是最好时就伤心欲绝
being devastated when they are not the best 他们接受了 他们会说
They accept it. They say "赢了固然是好 赢不了也无所谓"
"O, it would be nice to win this." 然后他们会继续前进
And then they move on 他们会问
And they ask "我怎样才能让世界变得更美好?
"How can I make the world better place? 我怎么把积极情绪带给别人?"
How can I be a conduit for positive emotions?" Maslow没见过45岁以下自我实现的人
Maslow didn't find anyone below the age of 45 Schnarch说要到五六十岁时
Schnarch talks about how it's in the 50s and 60s 人才分化
that the individuals become differentiated 才到酝酿出一段关系中最高层次的感情
and where the highest potential for passion is within a relationship 需要时间
It takes time 我不是一生下来就这样的
I was not always this way 正如Bennis指出 不是一生下来就这样的
it was not always like this as Bennis pointed out 非常重要的一个道理
very important lesson 很多人都问这个理论是不是放之四海皆准
Many people ask about the universal nature of this theory 因为你们知道 独立
because you know independence is very much 或者说个人主义 是西方文化
or individualism is very much a Western construct 或者说美国文化 西欧文化
or American, West European construct 如果你去非洲 这会很不同
You know you go to Africa - very differen 群体的概念
the concept of we of a group 比个体的概念更重要
is much more central to who they are 如果大家去亚洲
You go to Asia "我们"的概念 集体的概念
the concept of the we, collectivism 群体的概念比个体的概念更重要
the group is much more central to who they are 那在其他地方呢?
So what about other areas? 这是一个专属西方的理论吗?
Is this a Western centric theory? 答案是"不一定"
And the answer is "not necessarily" 如果我们的目标是完全自我实现
You see, if our goal is to become fully actualized 或者用Rogers的话来说
or to strive toward that 在成为一个人的过程中
to be in the process of becoming a person 向着这个目标奋进
in the words of Rogers 那么最后
then the final 互相依存这个最后阶段对所有文化来说都一样
that final stage of interdependence is same in all cultures 所有文化都重视这一点
All cultures value it 他们同样重视这一点
They value it just the same 不同文化的人 这个过程可能看起来不同
the process may look different for a person in Japan 日本人 美国人
and for a person in United States 埃及人 以色列人
for a person in Israel or Egypt 津巴布韦人 都各不相同
compared to a person living in Zimbabwe 这个过程看起来不同
The process may look different 但它有很多相同之处
However, it will have many similarities 我在第三节课时讲过达赖喇嘛
Remember I talked about the Dalai Lama on the third class or so 他说他发现西方心理的一个问题是
who said that one of the problems he sees in Western psychology 我们太着重文化差异了
is that we focus too much on cultural differences 达赖喇嘛是一个
And again, Dalai Lama is very 文化触觉非常敏锐的人
extremely sensitive culturally 他说差异确实存在 我们需要学习它们
But he says there are differences; we need to study them 但与此同时
At the same time 我们更需要学习相同之处
we need to study even more so the similarities 正是这些相同之处把我们联合起来
that which brings us together 团结起来
that unites us 而且相同之处多不胜数
And there are a lot of similarities 希望不久的将来会有越来越多人研究
And hopefully soon there'll be more and more research 这个话题 并把它应用于不同的文化中
on this topic applying it to different cultures and twigging 看看它与西方文化以外的世界有什么联系
and seeing how it relates outside the Western tradition 因为我等一下提到的大部分研究
Cause most of the research that I'll mention in a minute 都是在美国做的
has been done in United States 有一些是在英国
some of them in UK 如果能看看别的地方这个过程是如何的 那会很有趣
Will be interesting to see what the process looks like elsewhere 但它的核心是
But at its core, at its core 相似多于差异
it is much more similar than different 为什么独立很重要?
Why is it important to be independent? 为什么我们要奋力地达到独立阶段?
Why is it that we should strive for this evolution? 为什么我们不应该遵从他人
Shouldn't we stay of the conformity 依赖外界?
dependence level? 我的理由 以及很多研究结果
Now I will argue and the research 还有很多历史事件都表明
shows as well as historical incidents show that 培养独立是我们培养相互依存的
it is important to cultivate independence as a way 一个重要途径
to cultivate interdependence 首先
First of all 因为道德行为
because of moral behavior 如果大家想想历史上最可怕的暴行
if you think about the worst atrocities throughout history 历史上最可怕的暴行
the worst atrocities throughout history 正是那些遵从他人
were conducted by people conforming 服从权威的人犯下的
by obedience to authority 那些种族主义或民族主义的信念和行为导致的
and by racist or ethnocentric beliefs and behaviors 现在来看看我刚才提到的三件事
Now look at these three things that I just 服从权威 一个人
obedience to authority - a person 如果有很高的依赖性自尊
with high dependence self-esteem 就越有可能服从
is much more likely to be obedient 权威人物
to an authority figure 为什么? 因为这样的人寻求赞扬
Why? Because he or she seeks accolades 他们寻求认同
they seek approval 他们没有强烈的自我感
They don't feel strong enough themselves 他们需要一个有魅力的领袖告诉他们
They need that very charismatic leader to tell them "你真棒 你真厉害 你太了不起了"
"Oh,you are fine, You are OK, You are superior" 因为他们的自我感依赖于这些赞扬
Because that's where their sense of self is dependent on 如果我们需要不停地获得群体的赞扬
because we are much more likely to conform to what a group is doing 我们就更可能遵循群体的做法
if we need constantly the accolades of that group 大家想想Milgram的实验
You think about the Milgram experiment Asch的实验
you think about Asch experiments 上过第15节和第1节的同学
those of you who've taken Psych 15,or Psych 1 大家想想种族主义 什么是种族主义?
You think about racism. What is racism? 种族主义就是通过比较一些外在因素
Racism is about comparison and wanting to assert superiority 来证明自己高人一等
on the base of some external factor 换言之
In other words 我本身不够好
I'm not good enough as I am 证明不了我有多好
You know, to prove how good I am 我必须拿自己跟别人比较
I have to compare myself to another 我可以比较居住的地方
whether I choose you know, place of residence 比较成长教育
whether I choose upbringing 比较肤色
whether I choose the color of the skin 它的中心是相对能力感
It's about relative competence 但是独立的人
Whereas people who are independent 没有这种比较的需求 或者说这种需求没那么强烈
don't have the need or have less of that need for comparison 遵循他人的需求也没那么强烈
as well as less of that need to conform 他们坚持原则
They are true to principles 他们自己的原则
their own principles 但原则并不是万灵药
Now this is not a panacea 原则并不总是好的
This is not always good 因为纳粹分子
because I'm sure there are also Nazis 也很坚持自己的原则
who are true to their principles 但我等一下讲的研究
But as I'll show later in research 表明坚持原则的人更可能
those who are true to their principles are more likely 听从自己的心
to follow their heart 只要他们的心没有受伤
And unless their heart is damaged 我说的受伤不是一个比喻
I mean that in a true sense of the word, damaged 他们会追求做好事
they will seek to do good 他们会追求帮助他人
They will seek to help 他们的移情会增加
Their levels of empathy will increase 这是移情的矛盾
And this is the paradox of empathy 当我培养移情时
It's actually when we cultivate empathy 或者说当我们培养…
or rather when we cultivate 实在找不到更好的词
for lack of a better term 我也不想用一个新词
and I actually don't want to use a new term 当我们培养自爱时
When we cultivate self-love 当我们培养自尊时
when we cultivate self-esteem 我们就会更有可能变得
that's when we are most likely 富有同情心 爱别人
to be empathic and to love others 大家想想黄金原则
Look at the golden rule 要像爱自己一样爱你的邻居
love your neighbors as you love yourself 在这个原则里
What does that 爱你的邻居的先决条件是什么?
what is the prerequisite of loving your neighbor? 爱自己
The self 你就是标准
You are the standard 我们自己是我们评价他人的标准
we are the standard of how we evaluate others 因为我们怎么对待他们经常…
because our behavior toward others very often 不是通常
not always 但经常都反映了我们怎么对待自己
very often - mirrors our behavior toward ourselves 所以那些培养独立自我感的人
So people cultivating independent sense of self 那些有强烈自我认同的人 更能认同别人
who have a strong self identity are better able to identify with others 除了道德行为以外
In addition to moral behavior 还会有更好的认知表现
better cognitive performance - you see 有强烈依赖型自尊的人
people who have a strong dependent self-esteem 或者说行动主要由他人言论决定的人
or are primarily driven by what other people say 会遵循别人在遵循的规矩
will follow the rule that has already been taken 他们很可能变得就像一台机器一样
They will, can potentially be great mechanics 因为他们会为了得到赞扬而努力
because they'll work hard for these accolade 努力是好事
and that's a good thing, to work hard 但他们不会打破陈规
But they'll basically remain within the box 而有强烈独立型自尊的人
whereas the people who have a stronger sense of independent self-esteem 就会打破陈规
think outside the box 选择别人没有走过的道路
choose the path that hasn't already been taken 但这并不代表他们不会选择
That doesn't mean that they can't walk in the pat 别人已经走过的路
that has been taken 只是这是他们真正
if that is what they really 真正想要的生活就行了
really want to do with their lives 所以如果我们说"别人说走东 我偏偏走西"
So you know it's just as much sign of dependence when we say 这同样也是依赖型的
"Wel,I am gonna do the opposite of what everyone else does." 因为我的行为还是取决于他人
because I'm still dependent on what everyone else does 所以这不是独立型自尊
So that's not independent self-esteem 而是依赖型自尊
That's just more dependence 如果我坐下说
But if I sit down and I say "好的 我该怎么过我的人生?"
"Ok, what do I really, really want to do with my life?" 我很认真地想
And I think about it truly 把自己置身于一个没人知道我在做什么的世界
Put myself in a world that no one would know what I was doing 我会更可能找到我的爱好
I'm much more likely to identify that thing which is my passion 我的核心 我的使命 也许是在投资银行工作
my core, my calling - be it in investment banking 也许是在UniLu工作
or work in the UniLu 这并不重要
It doesn't matter 问题是"我的动力是什么?"
The question is "What is the source of that" 有独立型自尊的人活到老学到老
Person with independent self-esteem is committed to continuous learning 回忆一下John Carlton的研究 在哈佛商学院的毕业生中
Remember the John Carlton's study – what differentiated the HBS grads 优等生与别的学生之间的区别就是
the extraordinary ones from the rest 他们总是问问题
was that, they were always asking questions 他们总是想学更多
They always wanted to learn more 他们不会
They didn't get out of – you know 从大学或商学院毕业后
graduate from college or graduate from business school 或者读完博士
or from a PHD program 诸如此类的学位后 说
or wherever it is, and say "我懂得够多了"
"OK,I know enough" "现在我是经理了 现在我是领导了
Or "Now I'm a manager; now I'm the leader 我会告诉人们应该做什么"
I'll tell people how they should… 这是Warren Bennis的一个优点
This is the amazing thing about Warren Bennis 他总是问问题
He's always asking questions 他对别人做的事感兴趣
He's always interested in what people are doing 他总是在学习
He's always learning 我等一下会给大家看一个研究
Happiness, levels of happiness are higher 当我们有独立型自尊时
and I'll show you the research in a minute 我们的幸福感会更高
when we experience a sense of independent self-esteem 我们会更平静 我们不会不停地
We are much calmer when we don't constantly 向别人证明自己
have to prove ourselves to others 总是处于警惕状态是一件很劳心劳力的事
It is enervating to constantly be on the guard 这个人会喜欢我吗? 我怎么得到他们的认同?
Is this person gonna like me? How do I gain their validation? 当我们这样想时 我们会更平静:
We are much calmer when we say "让我表达自己
"Let me express myself 没错 我也许会受伤害
And yes it may hurt me 如果他们不喜欢我 我会伤心
It will hurt me, if they don't like me 没问题 我承受得住
That's OK. I'm resilient 我很坚强 我可以接受"
I'm strong, I can deal." 存在感更平静了
Much calmer - sense of being 当我们表达自己 而不是时刻想着表现自己
when we express rather than constantly try to impress 想象一下我们的生活会变得多轻松
Imagine how much lighter our lives can be 如果 当我们在教室时
if, when we are here 或者当我们走出教室时
or when we walk out of here 我们感受到这种存在感
we experience the sense of being 越来越多地…
more and more of the time 重申一次 不是完全地
again, not perfectly 因为这有违人的天性
because that's not human 但我们可以越来越多地单纯地存在
but more and more of the time to just be, to exist 感激我们的存在 作为一个整体存在
to celebrate our existence and the existence as a whole 我给大家讲几个研究
Let me share with you just some of the research 这样的研究不是很多
There hasn't been a lot 我想给大家讲我做的一些研究
And I wanna share with you just some of the work that I did for 是我读博士学位时做的 后来还继续做了一点
as part of my PHD and a little bit beyond 第一个研究是关于
The first research that was really able to deal with 自尊的矛盾
the paradox of self-esteem 也就是说 有些人得到很多赞扬
of how some people get so much accolade 但他们的自尊下降了
and yet their self-esteem decreases 而那些有很高自尊的人 有些有敌对情绪
or how some people have high self-esteem or hostile 但有些却对别人宽厚仁慈
versus others that are generous and benevolent 第一个研究是Kernis做的
The first research that was done was by Kernis 他在1995年提出自尊稳定性这个概念
who back in 1995 came up with the concept of self-esteem stability 他说 真正能够预测
And he said what actually can predict 一个人究竟是敌对还是宽厚
whether a person will be hostile or generous 他们的自尊会随着时间增高
whether their self-esteem over time will be high 还是降低的 不是自尊本身
or whether it will lower over time is not a self-esteem per se 而是自尊的稳定性
but rather is the stability of their self-esteem 他发现…他追踪实验对象
And what he showed - he followed people 例如 一两周
you know, for example, for a week or two weeks 他会测评他们的状态自尊而不是特质自尊
and he would measure their state rather than trait 他们当时的状态自尊
their state self-esteem at the time 有些人…
So there were certain people who 假设这里是自尊水平
if this is the self-esteem level 这里是时间
and this is time 在某个时候 有些人的自尊在这里
There were people whose self-esteem at this point 然后第二天
was here and then the next day 在这里 然后这里
here, and then here 然后又回到这里 这里
and then here again, and then here 这里…
and here and here 假设他测了十次
and he measured, let's sa, ten times 他想测出
And what he wanted to see 这些数据分布的标准偏差
to measure - the standard deviation of the spread 它有多接近? 有多稳定?
How close was it? How stable was it? 假设这个人
So this would be someone with 平均来说
maybe on average 有很高的自尊
high self-esteem 但有很多起伏
but with a lot of fluctuations 有些人则像这样
Other people were more like this 也有起起伏伏
Again, ups and downs 有时是很大的起伏
but sometimes large fluctuations 但总体来说
but overall 很稳定
pretty stable 同样水平的自尊
Same level of self-esteem 特质自尊
trait self-esteem 但状态自尊的起伏少了很多
but state self-esteem fluctuated far less 他发现 是自尊的稳定性
And what he showed was that it was the stability 而不是自尊本身 决定了
rather than self-esteem per se that determined 一个人是敌对还是仁慈
whether or not a person would be hostile or benevolent 自尊不稳定的人
People with unstable self-esteem 更可能充满敌对情绪
were more likely to be hostile 而自尊更稳定的人
People with more stable self-esteem 更可能宽厚仁慈
were more likely to be generous and benevolent 这就解释了自尊理论的
resolving a lot of the contradictions 很多矛盾和误解
misunderstanding in the literature 当我看到这个理论时 我顿悟了
When I saw this, I had a eureka 亲身体验到的一次顿悟
personal eureka experience 我说
And I said "就是它了 他找到答案了"
"This is it! He's onto something." 我在2000年写我的硕士论文时
And what I did in my master's thesis back in 2000 我设计了一个问卷
was created a questionnaire 一个很简单的问卷 测量依赖型自尊
a very simple questionnaire that measured dependent versus 和独立型自尊的对比
independent self-esteem 我测评学生
And I measured students 大部分是哈佛学生 我还在新加坡做了代表性抽样调查
mostly Harvard students - I did also cross sectional in Singapore 我那时经常在新加坡 得出同样的结果
I was spending a lot of time there at the time - similar results 亚洲和美国的一样
Asia and here 至少新加坡和美国的一样
at least in Singapore and in United States 我发现 依赖型自尊
And what I found was that dependent self-esteem 与不稳定性有关
was associated with instability 而独立型自尊与稳定性有关
independent self-esteem was associated with stability 换言之
In other words 我只测量了一次 而不是十次
I came up with one measure that instead measuring ten times 到底这种自尊会导致敌对情绪
whether that kind of self-esteem would lead to hostility 焦虑 还是平静或宽厚
anxiety, versus calmness or generosity 我只用了一个测量数据
I used just one measure 我发现
And that's what I found 依赖性自尊与自尊不稳定性
very high correlation between dependent self-esteem 高度相关
and self-esteem instability 两者成正比
positive correlation 而独立型自尊和自尊稳定性
and a positive correlation between independent self-esteem 也成正比
and self-esteem stability 当时我的一些学生也就此做了一些研究
Then some of my students at the time did research on it 例如 Mellisa Christino
For example, Mellisa Christino 你们会在这门课上
who you'll meet 看到她写的一些东西
at least some of her writing later on in this class 她本科时写的毕业论文
did her senior thesis as an undergrad here 就是表明独立型自尊和快乐
on showing the connection between independent self-esteem and happiness 独立型自尊与心流的关系
and independent self-esteem and flow 那些有高度独立型自尊的人
Those who had high independent self-esteem 最有可能在运动场上体验到心流
were most likely to experience flow on athletic field 因为这就是她的研究对象 哈佛运动员
which is where her research was - Harvard athletics 高度独立自尊的人也有更高的幸福感
also connected to higher levels of happiness 我的论文是想准确地找出
Then my dissertation was trying to pin down these exact characteristics 自尊理论存在的问题
that were problematic in self-esteem literature 我说过 高度自尊意味着自恋
Remember, high self-esteem means narcissism 怎么区分这两者?
How do you differentiate? 我在论文里发现
Well, what I found in the dissertation was that 自恋其实是与高度依赖型自尊有关
narcissism is connected actually to high dependent self-esteem 而自恋与独立型自尊没有什么关系
There was no correlation between independent self-esteem and narcissism 至于宽厚
When it comes to generosity 这也许是研究中最令人意外的结果
this was probably the most surprising result of the study 有独立型自尊的人
people with independent self-esteem 其实更宽厚仁兹
were actually more generous and benevolent 不仅自我报告如此 对他人的行为也是如此
both in terms of self report and in terms of their actual behavior 非常强烈的自我感
toward other people - a strong sense of self 我说过 像爱自己一样爱你的邻居
Remember, love your neighbor as you love yourself 己所不欲 勿施于人
Do not do unto others which you would not have done to yourself 当你对自我有一个高标准时
And when you have a high standard for the self 对他人也会有一个高标准
there is a high standard for the other 通常这是无意识地发生的
And that usually happens automatically 因为我们怎么对待他人就会怎么对待自己
because we mirror our behavior toward the "I" 还有敌对情绪
And then hostility 敌对情绪与自尊本身没有关系
no correlation between hostility and self-esteem per se 因为有些
because some people have 有高度自尊的人 有很高的敌对情绪
with high self-esteem, have high levels of hostility 但有些有高度自尊的人 敌对情绪很低
some people with high self-esteem have low levels of hostility 而且更宽厚仁慈
and more generosity 但依赖型和独立型自尊能预测敌对情绪
But dependent and independent self-esteem predicted hostility 那些有高度自尊的人 而且自尊主要是依赖型的
Those with high self-esteem that was mostly dependent 这样的人更可能…但也有例外 不是所有人都会这样
were more likely, not always, not every person 但平均来说 这样的人更可能表现出敌对
but on average, were more likely to display hostility 而那些有高度自尊 而且主要是独立型自尊的人
those people with high self-esteem that is mostly independent 会更坦率 合作 宽厚
were much more open, cooperative and generous 完美主义 那时我有两个学生
Perfectionism - two of my students at that time Tiffany Ignaczyk和Kate Richey
Tiffany Ignaczyk and Kate Richey 她是这个班的助教
who is a TF in this class 做了一个很优秀的研究 表明完美主义
did fantastic work showing the connection between perfectionism 和自尊的关系 有高度独立型自尊的人
and self-esteem - how people with high independent self-esteem 他们是完美主义者的可能性更低
were less likely to be perfectionistic 为什么? 独立型自尊的人更注重表达自己
Why? Because it is about self expression 注重学习和成长
it's about constantly learning and growing 而学习和成长
And part of learning and growing 就必定要跌倒再爬起
is falling down and getting up again 学习只有这个途径
no other way to learn 而依赖型自尊更注重…
Whereas dependent self-esteem were more concerned 我上节课引用Mihnea Moldoveanu说的话
the words of Mihnea Moldoveanu that I quoted last time 我们声称自己想要真相
we say we want the truth 但其实我们只是想自己是正确的
what we mean is that we want to be correct 更依赖于他人的看法
more dependent on how they perceived 更完美主义 更害怕失败
more perfectionistic, more afraid of failure 这同样适用于…我们之前讲过
So this applies also - and we talked about before 但我想再说一次 适用于恋爱
but I just want to point it out again - to relationships 这也是David Schnarch
That's work on the topic 就这个课题所做的研究 我们说过
David Schnarch again where we talked about 我们怎么达到被了解的阶段
how do we get to the stage of being known 而不是被认可的阶段
rather than being validated 这并不代表在七八十岁时
And that doesn't mean that at the age of 70 or 80 当我们完全进化了
when we are fully evolved 我们并不喜欢 或者不需要我们伴侣的认可
we don't enjoy or need at times the validation of our partner 我们需要
We do 但同时
But at the same time 我们更关心的是表达自我
we are much more about self expression David Schnarch是这样说的
Here is what David Schnarch has to say "分化是你维持自我感的能力
"Differentiation is your ability to maintain your sense of self 当你情绪上和/或身体上
when you are emotionally and/or physically 与别人亲近
close to others 尤其是这些人变得对你越来越重要时
especially as they become increasingly important to you 分化使你维持自己的道路
Differentiation permits you to maintain your own course 当爱人 朋友
when lovers, friends 家庭向你施压 让你同意和遵从时
and family pressure you to agree and conform 分化良好的人能够同意 但又不会觉得
Well-differentiated people can agree without feeling 他们"失去自我"
like they're 'losing themselvs' 能够不同意 但又不会觉得被排挤和难受"
and can disagree without feeling alienated and embittered." 这正是被了解的含义
This is what being known is all about 做你自己 分化出来
being yourself, being differentiated 这就是独立型自尊的核心
This is what independent self-esteem is 这是最高境界的相互依存的
this is what ultimately interdependence 真谛
is all about 说来容易做来难
easier said than done 但用它来启发我们是非常有用的
But again it's very helpful to have that as a heuristic 在我们潜意识里
the back of your mind 当它发生时 能够注意到
to notice that it's happening 因为在20岁这个年龄
Because at the age of 20 你们也会经历相互依存的时刻
you are also experiencing moments of interdependence 与朋友家人产生真正的联系
real connection with a friend, family 走在后院里 欣赏美景
just walking in the yard and admiring the beauty of it all 这些珍贵的时刻 随着时间过去
and  these are precious moments that over time 我们会有越来越多
we can have more and more of 只要我们跟从这条自然的道路
if we follow the natural path 自然的发展
the natural evolution 继续用回走路那个比喻
Going back to the analogy of walking 我经常…我们知道
I'm very often when - we know these you know 历史上有很多故事
stories through history 有些人被迫穿上
people were put in you know shoes 太小的鞋子 或者被剥夺走路的自由
that were too small for them or were not allowed to try and walk Ceausescu统治下的罗马尼亚就是这样
such as very often the case was in Romanian under Ceausescu 人们无法自然发展
where people were not allowed to develop naturally 当我们的自然发展被阻碍了
when our natural development is hindered 这是有可能的
and it can be hindered 我们就不能如我们所能的那样发展
we don't evolve as we can 所以在心理层面上也有这个问题
So the question is also on the psychological level 我们怎样才能如我们所能地发展? 你们在这个学期
how can we evolve as we can? And some of the tools 所学到的一些方法
that you learned throughout the semester 不管是认知的学习方法
whether it is the cognitive tool of learning 允许自己有人的天性
the permission to be human 还是你们具体地运用的方法
or the tools that you can actually apply 例如写日记
such as keeping a journal 做运动
such as exercising 学会感恩
such as doing the gratitude exercise 冥想 练瑜伽
such as meditating, or doing yoga 这些方法都是
All these things as you'll see are ways 有助实现自我的方法
of becoming more self-actualized 它们能加速这个过程
of expediting the process 当我们加速这个过程
And when we expedite the process 就意味着此时此刻我们就能越来越多地
it means that right now right here we are able to experience 体验到那种存在感
that sense of being much more often 我们不用等到50 60或70岁
we don't need to wait until we are 50 or 60 or 70 我们可以早早地就踏上那条健康的道路
We can on that healthy journey way before that 那么我们该怎么做?
So how do we do it? How do we do it? 我们说回
Let me go back to the model 我们讲改变时讲过的那个模型
we talked about when we discussed change 我们讲过改变的ABC
And we talked about the ABC of change A是情感 B是行为 C是认知
Affect. Behavior, and Cognition 我说过改变的最重要方法
And I mentioned that the most important approach to change 改变的最有效方法是B 行为
the most effective approach to change is the B, the Behavior 我用一个模型讲过态度如何改变行为
And I introduced this model of how attitudes change behavior 反过来行为如何改变态度
and in turn how behavior changes attitudes 大家回忆一下自我知觉理论
Remember self-perception theory 如果你想在某个生活领域得到改善
if you want to improve in one area in our lives 最好的方法就是让自己的行为变得像改善了一样
the best thing to do is to behave as we would 如果我想要高度自尊
If I want high self-esteem 我的行为就要像一个有高度自尊的人
I need to behave like a person with high self-esteem behaves 为什么? 因为自尊就是一种态度
Why? Because self-esteem is simply an attitude 是我对自我的态度
it's the attitude I have toward the self 是我对自己的评价
it's the I evaluating the me 要提高这种态度
And to enhance that attitude 我就要…或者说最有效的办法
I need to engage - or the most effective way 不是唯一的办法
not the only way 最有效的办法 就是表现出一个
but the most effective way is to engage in behavior of a person 有高度自尊的人的行为
with high self-esteem 所以榜样的作用很重要
which is why it's so important to have role models 我说的榜样不止一个
And I'm saying that in plural 有榜样很重要
It's important to have role models 我们可以学习这些人
people we can look up to 说
and say "我想有这样的性格…
"I want to have that chara... 不 我想有Warren Bennis那样的
No. I want to have the calm and the acceptance 平静 包容和慷慨精神
and the generosity of spirit that Warren Bennis has 我想有Marva Collins身上的
I want to have the passion 那种对教学的热爱
for teaching that Marva Collins displays 把榜样的所有优点综合起来
integrate that aggregates of role models 这样我们就能有他们那样的行为 并且慢慢地培养
so that we can behave and over time achieve that attitude 我们追求的那种态度
that we are looking for 我来讲一下提高自尊的几个方法
So let me go over a few of them of how to enhance self-esteem 大部分都已经讲过了
We've discussed most 所以这也算是很好地总结一下我们讲过的内容
so this is a good summary of some of the things that we went through 首先有高度独立型自尊的人通常…
First, people with high independent self-esteem generally 正如我们之前从研究中看到的那样
as we saw before from the research 包括Melissa Christino和其他人的研究
Melissa Christino's research and others' 他们通常更平静
are generally calmer 所以独立型自尊是一种态度
So independent self-esteem is the attitude 平静是一种行为
calm is the behavior 也就是说 行为平静的人
which also means that people who behave calmly 他们的独立型自尊会随着时间增加
will increase over time their independent self-esteem 我们在和冥想相关的研究中看过 例如
And we see that in related research on meditation for example 正念冥想
on mindfulness 当我们越来越多地练习这种方法
as we induce more of it 我们的自尊
our self-esteem 我们独立型的自尊
and it is the independent part of self-esteem 因为它不需要赞扬
because they are not about accolades "我今天冥想得真好
"Oh I meditated so well today 大家给我鼓掌"
Everyone, clap." 这不是这种自尊的重点
It's not about that 它的重点是带来平静
It's about inducing calm 关注自己 活出自己
being centered, being myself 又例如运动
Or physical exercise 运动能带来平静
physical exercise induces calm 因为它在体内释放某种酶
because it releases certain enzyme 某些化学物质 这样随着时间过去
certain chemicals in the body so that over time 它能直接增强我们的独立型自尊
it actually strengthens our independent self-esteem indirectly 因为行为
because behavior 体验了平静 导致态度的转变
experiencing the calm leads to a changing attitude 假设你中了一个无名咒语
Imagine that a spell of anonymity has been cast on you 从现在起在你的余生里
From now on and for the rest of your life 没有人会知道你做什么
no one will know what you are doing 除了你自己 没有人知道你有多好
no one but you will know how good you are 你有多宽厚
how generous you are 你有多仁慈
how benevolent you are 除了你自己 没有人知道你有多富有多强大
No one but you will know how wealthy and powerful 你有多重要
and important you are 只有你自己知道你的成就
You and you alone will know about all your accomplishments 只有你知道你有多好的操守
you and you alone will know about how ethical 道德和性格
moral and wonderful you are 在这样的一个世界里 你中了无名咒语
In such a world where a spell of anonymity has been cast on you 你会怎么做？
what would you do? 有谁觉得很熟悉吗? 你们会怎么做?
Familiar, anyone? What would you do? 正如我在课后作业里提过那样
Now as I mentioned in the response paper 这并不代表我们在匿名世界里怎么生活
this does not mean that this is what I need to do 在现实世界里就应该怎么生活
with my life - what I would do in this anonymous world 这个方法的意义是 在这样一个世界里
What it is saying though is in such world 或者说做这样的练习
or doing this exercise 它能磨练我们
it can help us hone in 在抛开赞扬和声望的情况下
on what we would do regardless of the accolades 我们会怎么做
and praise and prestige 我经常练习这个方法 大家知道
I do this exercise regularly - as you know 在这个班上 我介绍给大家的方法 我都一一练过
no exercise in this class that I assign to you is foreign to me 我都练过
I do them all 我也像大家一样边上课边学习
I'm going through this class just as you are 我会经常用这个方法
And I do this class, this regularly 例如 我在这里读研究生的时候
And for example, when I did it as a graduate student here 我当时的答案是在那样的一个世界里
my response was that in such a world 我可能连博士学位都拿不到
I actually would not get a PHD 我不会拿到博士学位
I would not get a PHD 因为读博对我来说不是一件很愉快的事 虽然很有意义
because it wasn't that pleasurable to me - very meaningful 但没那么愉快
but less pleasurable to me 我读得不是很好
I wasn't that good at it 不觉得我自己有什么惊人能力
didn't feel like I was thriving 但我也跟自己说 在现实世界里
But I also said to myself that in our world 不是那个没人知道我在做什么的世界
not in that world where no one would know what I was doing 而是在一个别人知道我在做什么的世界
but in a world where people know what I'm doing 我需要一个博士学位才能在大学任教
I would need a PHD in order to teach at a university 所以我继续学习 最终拿到了我的博士学位
which is why I continued and eventually got my PHD 我是在毕业前不久做这个练习的
I did this exercise just before I graduated 我当时在考虑不同的出路
And I was thinking about different areas to pursue 我想 在一个没有人知道我在做什么的世界里
And I said, what would I do in such a world 我会做什么?
where no one would know what I was doing? 我的答案是教书
And the answer to that was I would teach 我的答案是我不会做研究
The answer to that was I would not do research 这是很肯定的
That was very clear 所以那时候我决定放弃争取终身任期
And that's when I decided to get out of the tenure track option 即使当时外界 那些关心我的人
even though there was a lot of pressure on me from the outside 给了我很大的压力
from people who cared about me 他们说"再写两三篇文章
And they said "Look, two or three articles 你就能拿到一个很好的职位 争取终身任期
and you'll get into a great place, and the tenure track 你能做到的 你的博士论文可以发表的"
You can do it. You know your PHD, can be published." 但我知道我不想过那样的生活
But I knew that wasn't the life that I wanted to lead 我要为此付出代价吗? 要
Is there a price for it? Yes 其中一个代价就是
I mean one of the price is that, you know 这是我在哈佛的倒数第二节课了
this is my second last class at Harvard 但我想要什么样的世界
But what kind of world 我想过什么样的生活
what kind of life did I want for myself 这个方法帮助我找到了
And that exercise helped me hone on that 你热爱什么? 你真正
What are your passions? What you really 想过的是怎么样的人生?
really want to do with your life? 你希望10年 20年后
Where do you see yourself 10 years from now 你会变成什么样?
or 20 years from now? 什么对你来说是非常重要的?
What's really important for you? 什么对你来说是重要的
What's important for you 就算没有别人的认同 点头 赞扬和欢呼
that you would do regardless of other people's approval 反对或批评
nods, accolades or cheering 你也会做的?
or disapproval, or criticism? 你在这样一个世界里会做什么?
What would you do in such a world? 这是一个很重要的问题
It's an important question to ask 那些…
People who experience 有高度独立型自尊的人会追求他们的兴趣
who have high independent self-esteem pursue their passions 那些追求他们兴趣的人会有更高的自尊
people who pursue their passions enjoy higher levels of self-esteem 那些有很多心流的人
People who enjoy a lot of flow 他们的独立型自尊也会增加
their independent self-esteem will increase as well 问问你自己 "你什么情况下体验过心流?
Ask yourself: where do you experience flow? 你什么时候忘我过? 是你读书的时候吗?
Where do you lose yourself? Is it when you read? 是坐在
Is it over dinner 你队友旁边吃晚餐时吗?
when you are sitting next to your block mates? 是你写作时吗?
Is it when you write? 是你站在全班同学前面
Is it when you are standing in front of a class 介绍一个课后活动时吗?
speak in an after school program? 你什么时候体验过?
When do you experience it? 你以前什么时候感受过心流? 问问你自己
When did you experience it in the past? Ask yourself 因为它最能预测到你未来什么情况下会有心流
Because that very often is the best predictor of future flow 你想过什么样的人生?
What kind of life do you want to lead? 你真正想做的是什么?
What do you really, really want to do? 有高度独立型自尊的人会付诸行动
People with high independent self-esteem put themselves on the line 他们会应对 不停地加强自己
They cope, they stretch themselves constantly 因为他们总是想学习成长
Because they are always about learning and growing 进步 发挥更大的作用
improving making more of difference 触及更多的人
touching more people 那些应对的人…
And people who cope 大家回忆一下 自我知觉理论
remember, self perception theory 那些应对的人 随着时间过去
people who cope over time 会获得更高的独立型自尊
will enjoy higher levels of independent self-esteem 即使他们这样做的时候跌倒过
Even if they fall while doing it 即使失败了四次
even if she says no four times 他们会重新站起来 变得更强大
they get up again and they get stronger 他们的独立型自尊会随着时间增强
And their independent self-esteem strengthens over time 那个图并不是这样子的
The graph doesn't look just like this 起起伏伏 有高有低
the ups and downs with spikes 真正的图是有起有伏
It looks with same ups and downs 但健康 快乐和自尊的走势
but with an upward trajectory of well being 是呈上升趋势的
happiness and self-esteem 谦虚 真诚的谦虚
Humble behavior - genuine humble behavior 我最喜欢的一本书
One of my favorite texts 也是我的文化里最重要的一本书之一
and I think one of the most important texts in my tradition Pirkei Avos 《先贤箴言》
Pirkei Avos, the Chapter of the Fathers 里面有一句话
There's a sentence there 一句谚语 我读了一遍又一遍
a proverb  that I've been reading over and over and over again 但一直都参透不了
and never could understand 直到我听到一个著名的拉比
until I heard an interpretation of a well-known Rabbi 拉比Mitchell Wohlberg 他对句话的解释
Rabbi Mitchell Wohlberg about this interpretation 这句话是这样说的
And here is the sentence 我翻译过来:那些追逐荣誉的人
I'm translating: those who chase after honor 荣誉会躲避他们
honor will run away from them 那些躲避荣誉的人
those who run away from honor 荣誉会追逐他们
honor will chase them 再说一次:那些追…
Let me repeat: those who run after 追逐荣誉的人
who chase honor 荣誉会躲避他们
honor will run away from them 那些躲避荣誉的人
those who run away from honor 荣誉会追逐他们
honor will chase them 我一直都参透不了 直到我听到拉比Wohlberg
And it didn't make sense to me until I put it in the context 关于自尊的一场演讲 并把它跟这句话结合起来理解
the result of the lecture by Rabbi Wohlberg of self eteem 荣誉的本质是尊敬自己
Honor is essentially honoring the self 相信自己
believing in one self 如果我不停地追逐荣誉
And if I'm constantly about chasing honor 追逐下一个赞扬 下一个奖
the next accolade, the next prize 下一个认同 下一个认可
the next approval, the next validation 荣誉就会躲避我
then honor will run away from me 下一次我就要在更陡的山坡上
And then I'll have to push that stone up steeper 把石头推上去
incline the next time 我继续追逐荣誉 等我到达了山顶
And I continue to chase that honor and I get there 石头又会滚下来
and then the rock rolls back down again 科林斯王就要继续推石头 而山坡变得
And Sisyphus continues on and on with the steep becoming... 越来越陡峭
with the incline becoming steeper 相反 如果我躲避荣誉 言行谦虚
Whereas if I run away from honor - behave humbly 随着时间过去 真正的荣誉
over time honor, true honor 打心底发出的荣誉感就会追逐我
internally generated honor will chase me 行为可以改变态度
Behavior can change attitude 这需要时间
It takes time 重申 一开始
And again at the beginning 正如我之前说过
as I mentioned to you before 我想变得谦虚 我想大家都知道
I wanted to be modest and I wanted everyone to know 我有多谦虚
how modest I was and how humble I was 我明白
And I understood that well 那不是真诚的谦虚
that's not genuine 但我仍然可以保持谦虚的言行
but I can still behave and act in a humble way 随着时间过去
And over time 它就会慢慢地融入我们
it becomes more and more part of who we are 行为不会一夜之间就改变态度
Behavior changing attitude doesn't happen overnight 但这并不意味着一个80岁
And again it doesn't mean that a person at 80 完成进化 实现自我的人 不会追寻荣誉
who is evolved and actualized does not look for honor at all 当他们被赞扬时 不会觉得高兴
does not feel good when he or she is praised 那是很自然的 是人的天性
That's natural - part of who we are 以下这个知识点很重要
This is an important one 我们在班上经常讲简化生活
We've talked about it a lot in the class about simplifying 那…
The... 我经常想 为什么在一个
I've often wondered the why is it that in a county 像美国这样的国家里
like the United States 一个追崇个人主义 自为更生的国家
such an individualistic country - self-reliance 大家在高中时读了爱默生
most of you read it in high school by Emerson 那么多关于个人主义和自我的书
so much about individualism and the self 为什么你们还是那么随波逐流?
why is it that there's such high levels of conformity? 为什么有那么多人还是走
Why is it that so many people go on the path 以前很多人已经走过的路?
that has been already taken and prescribed by others? 这并不意味着走这条路的人都是随波逐流的
That doesn't mean that everyone who goes on the path conforms 再一次 你可能很循规蹈矩
Again, you can be highly conforming 选择做一个顾问或者在流浪者之家
choosing to work as a consultant or choosing to be a volunteer 做自愿者
at a homeless shelter 你可能是取决于他人的 也可能是取决于自我的
You can be equally other determined or equally self determined 重点不在于选哪条路
It's not about choosing a particular path 重点是为什么
But why did I 我们会看到这么多随波逐流的人?
why do we see so many people who conform? 我想这是因为他们的成长教育
And I think it's because of their right raise 我想是因为美国人
I think it's because people in the United States 或者普遍来说 西方世界
Western world in general 没有花足够的时间来反省
do not take enough time to reflect 思考这样的问题:
and to think about those questions such as "我真正想过的人生是怎样的?"
"what do I reall, really want to do with my life? 问这样的问题:
to ask questions such as "在一个没有人知道我在做什么的世界里
"what would I do in a world where no one would know 我会做什么?"
what I was doing?" 用三问法来问自己 意义
to go through the three question process - the meaning "什么有意义?" "什么让我快乐?"
"what is meaningful?"; "what is pleasurable?" "我喜欢什么?" "我擅长什么?"
"what do I enjoy?"; and "what am I good at?" "我的强项是什么?"
"What are my strengths?" 问自己这些问题
To go through these questions and to ask 问这些重要的问题
those important questions 因为当我们退后一步 慢慢思考
because when we take a step back and take the time 这时我们才能变成自我
that's when we become ourselve 我们才能找到适合我们的道路
that's when we identify the path that is right for me 我想用一个阶段模型来给大家讲解
Let me illustrate this by showing you a stage model 这是以Daniel Gilbert的研究为基础的
And this is based on the work of Daniel Gilbert 与他的认知晕眩研究有间接关系
indirectly refers to it his work on cognitive dizziness 他和其他人的研究发现
And what he and others have shown is that 当人的认知忙乱时 当他们匆匆忙忙时
people behave very differently when they are cognitively busy 他们的行为会非常不同于
when they are in a hurry 当他们慢慢花时间
versus when they have time 专心思考一下他们所做的事时
they can focus on whatever it is that they are doing 也跟Tim Kasser的时间充裕研究有关
So also connected to Tim Kasser's work on time affluence 第一个段阶是我们没有时间的阶段
So the first stage is the stage where we don't have time 我们很赶时间 匆匆忙忙
we are in a hurry; we are rushed 我们的反应是无意识的
our reaction is automatic 在这个阶段 我们会随波逐流
This is the part where we conform 我们会遵从群体
This is time when we conform to the group 就像Asch做的实验那样
as in the Asch experiments 在这个阶段 当那个穿白袍的人
this is when we conform to the man with a white coat 告诉我们实验必须继续时 我们会遵从
telling us the experiment must go on 我们会按下按钮 电击一个无辜的人
And we push the button and shock an innocent victim 在这个阶段我们会随波逐流地服从
This is where conformity to obedience 服从群体
conformity to a group is 当我们没有时间时
when we don't have time 当我们匆忙时
when we are busy 当我们不认真思考
when we don't really think about 我们想做什么 可以做什么时
what it is that we want to do and can do 这是依赖的自我 第一阶段
This is our dependent self - stage one 通常这时我们会到达第二阶段
We very often at this moment can reach stage two 不用等很久
don't need to wait a long time 这时 如果我们慢慢来
At this moment, if we take the time 因为如果我们慢慢来
because when we take the time 这时我们就开始有意识思考
that's when we engage in deliberate reflection 把思考与行为结合起来
combining reflection and action 这时候我们会想我们做的事
where we think about what we do 想我们想的事
we think about what we think 我们慢慢来
We take our time 这个阶段的自我是自主的
This is where the self is autonomous 这时候独立型自尊出现了
this is where the independent self-esteem emerges 当我们慢慢来时
when we have the time 我们随波逐流的可能性就会减低
That's where we are much less likely to conform 这时我们会培养
that's when we are cultivating 表达我们独立的核心自我
and expressing our independent core self 想想接下来的一个实验
Think of the, of the following experiment 今天做不了 很可惜
It cannot be done today unfortune... Well 其实也不可惜
I mean it's not unfortunate 今天做不了
but it cannot be done today 这个实验其实是重复Milgram的实验 但有一个改动
And that is to retry the Milgram experiment with one difference 大家想象一下 有些同学熟悉Milgram实验
Imagine this - some of you know the Milgram experiment 我们在班上已经讲过了
We've spoken about it here 你坐在椅子里 手放在按钮上
You are sitting on the chair with your hand on the buttons 或者在你面前有一个控制台
Or in front of you, you have the panel 你选择60伏电压
And you go up to sixty volts 那个学习者没有什么反应
And there's no real reaction from the other person, the learner 你上升到75伏
And you go up to 75 volts 增加了15伏
a 15 volt increment 你升高到120伏 那个被电击的人
And you get to 120 volts and the confederate 你觉得他真的被电击了
whom you think is really being shocked 他说"哎哟 很痛"
says "Ouch! That hurts" 你抬起头看那个穿白袍的人
And you go and you look up at the person with the white coat 他说"实验必须继续"
and he says to you "the experiment must go on" 你继续提高电压 那个人被电得尖叫
And you go up and up; and the person is screaming 告诉你他要心脏病发了
and telling you he has a heart condition 你抬头看实验人员
And you look up at the experimenter 他看起来就像那样
who looks like this 他告诉你…我之前一直没注意过他
And he tells you - I never noticed him until now 很高兴我从没注意过他
I'm glad I've never noticed him 他跟你说"实验必须继续"
He says to you "the experiment must go on" 你继续
And you go on 那些人开始大哭起来
And they start to whimper and say "我有心脏病 快放我出去"
"I have a heart condition, Get me out of here!" 你抬头看
And you look up 实验人员说
And the experimenter says "没有答案是错误的答案
"no answer is wrong answer 提高电压 实验必须继续
Raise the voltage. The experiment must go on." 这时63%的参与者会把电压提高到350伏
Now 63 percent of participants went above 350 volt 超过那个人所能承受的水平
which is beyond the level where the person was not even heard anymore 他们继续电击到 直到XXX点
They continue to shock them until the point of xxx 超过了危险水平
beyond the very dangerous 因为他告诉他们 实验必须继续
because he told them that the experiment must go on 现在想象一下 同样的实验 但有一个小小的改动
Now imagine the same experiment with a slight difference 你用75伏电压电他们 他们说
You give them 75 volts and they say "哎哟 很痛"
"Ouch! That hurts" 然后实验人员告诉你
And then the experimenter tells you "实验必须继续
"The experiment must go on 不如你先休息15分钟"
Why don't you come back in 15 minutes" 你出去15分钟
And you go out for 15 minutes 等你回来时
And you come back again 这时是90伏
And it's now at 90 假设你提高到120伏
And you go up - let's say - you go up to 120 120伏 那个人在尖叫
And 120, the person is screaming "放我出去 你们没权把我关在这里"
"Get me out of here! You have no right to keep me here!" 你抬头看实验人员 他告诉你
And you look up at the experimenter and the experimenter says "实验必须继续
"The experiment must go on 不如你先休息15分钟?"
But why don't you take a 15 minute break?" 你们认为这时会怎么样
What do you think would happen 如果这些人电击人之前有15分钟的时间休息?
if people were given 15 minute breaks between shocks? 你认为会有63%的人会把电压提高到超过危险水平吗?
Do you think 63 percent would go to extremely dangerous and beyond? 很可能不会 因为在这15分钟里
Probably not, because during these 15 minutes 我们不再处于热态
we are no longer in a hot state 而是处于冷态
but rather in a cold state 这是引用George Loewenstein的话
the words of George Loewenstein 当他们处于冷态时 他们会想
When they are in a cold state, they'll think "我疯了吗? 我在这里干什么?"
"Am I out of my mind? What am I doing here?" 他们会去打电话报警
And they will go and call the police 而不是15分钟后再走进去
as opposed to going back 15 minutes later and "好的 现在我愿意杀了他们"
"Ok, now I'm willing to kill them" 因为他们在这个实验里就是以为自己杀了这些人
which is essentially what they presumably did in that experiment 如果他们没有那15分钟
But when they didn't have those 15 minutes 而是"实验必须继续"
when it was "the experiment must go on" "实验必须继续"
"the experiment must go on" 他们就会继续
it went on 他们会为失去自我付出代价
And they paid a price of losing themselves 我们的现代生活也是这样
And this is what happens to us in modern life 当然后果没有Milgram的实验
not with such dire consequences 那么可怕
potentially could have been with Milgram 而且在现代 即使我们服从权威
and we are not doing immoral things 我们也没做什么不道德的事
as the cases with obedience to authority 但通常我们会伤害到自己
But we are hurting ourselves very often 因为我们随波逐流 遵从主流
because we are running around and we are conforming 我们做别人认为我们该做的事
and we are doing what they think we should do 我们做那把声音叫我们做的事
we are doing what that voice or voices are telling us to do 我们没有做自己想做的事
We are not doing what we are meant to be doing 你们知道我认为这门课最重要的部分是什么吗?
You know what I think the most important part of this class? 是课堂和课后作业
Its sections and response papers 我这么说不是因为谦虚
This is not out of modesty 没错 我想你们觉得我谦虚
yes, I want you to think that I'm modest 但这不是我
but that's not why I'm 这么说的原因
why I'm saying it 而是因为这时候你们有时间思考
It's because that is when you get the time to reflect 和你们的助教讨论
to talk about it with your teaching fellows 和你们的同学讨论
with your fellow students 思考
to think about it 你们被迫用额外时间来思考
You are "forced" to take a timeout 这时你们坐下写课后作业
It's when you sit down and write those response papers 回答我提出的问题
about these questions that I mentioned 这时你们真正的独立自我浮现了
it's when your real autonomous shining self comes ou 这时你跟朋友谈这门课
it's when you talk to your friends about this class 或者在食堂跟队友分享
or your block mates in the dining hall 这时你有时间和你的父母分享
when you take the time to share with your parents 这是独立自我就出现了
That's when it is happening 最后 正直
Finally, integrity Nathaniel Branden
Nathaniel Branden Nathaniel Branden和他的很多病人这样做过 他是心理治疗师
Nathaniel Branden did this with many of his clients - he's a therapist 他叫病人来 告诉他们
where he would bring them in and tell them "好的 下周 暂停
"Ok, for the next week, stop 不能说谎 要完全诚实坦白"
No lies, Be fully integrated; be fully honest" 他发现这个方法 尤其是对于那些
And what he found was when he applies to especially people 会撒一点谎的病人来说
who would lie a little bit more 能够提高他们的自尊
that enhanced their self esteem 我记得在1996年 96或97年
I remember back in 1996 - I think it was 96 or 97 克林顿弹劾案正在审判
when the whole Clinton impeachment trial was going on CNN请来DePaulo
On CNN they brought on DePaulo 她是维珍尼亚大学的一位教授
she is a professor at University of Virginia 她专门研究说谎
and she does research on lying 他们采访了她 那是第一次
And they interviewed her and it was the first time 我接触到她的研究
that I was exposed to her work 她在CNN上说她的研究发现
And she said on CNN that her research shows that 基本上所有人都说谎 很多时候都是一些小谎
basically everyone lies - many times little lies 为了让别人觉得自己很厉害
intended to impress others 很多时候是大谎
many times, bigger lies 她发现
And what she found was that 人平均每天说三个谎
people lie in average 3 times a day 当我听到的时候
And when I heard it 我轻笑了一声
I scoffed, I said "也许其他人每天说三次谎
"Wel, maybe other people lie three times a day 但我不说谎"
I don't lie" 我解释一下为什么说我不撒谎
And let me explain to you why I don't lie 这是真的
And this is true 因为我读大学时写的毕业论文
Because I wrote my senior thesis in college 就是说诚实是会带来好处的
on the concept of honesty pays 我当时既学心理也学哲学
I was a joint philosophy and psychology concentrator 我对道德 自尊 动机感兴趣
was interested in ethics, self esteem, motivation 我根据研究
And what I showed based on research 根据亚里士多德 亚当·史密斯的哲学著作
based on philosophical works by Aristotle, by Adam Smith 发现每次我们说谎 欺骗 不诚实时
that we pay a high psychological and emotional price whenever we lie 要付出巨大的
whenever we cheat 心理和情绪代价
whenever we are dishonest 所以我跟自己说
And then I said to myself "让我试试DePaulo的方法"
"But let me try DePaulo's exercise." 她的方法就是叫人讲完一段对话后
What she does is have people evaluate their conversations 马上评估有哪些是真的 有哪些是说谎的
for honest or dishonest content right after it finishes 趁他们还清楚记得
so when it's still fresh in their mind 自己说过什么
what they talked about 他们会写一本日记
So they keep a journal 完全匿名的
which is completely anonymous 所以我想
So I said "我会写 虽然我不说谎"
"But I'm gonna do , even though I don't lie" 因为我知道说谎的后果
because I know the consequences of lying 因为我的论文就是写这个的
because I wrote my thesis on it 我是诚实这个课题的专家
I'm an expert on honesty 我说我会写日记的
I said I'll still do it 因为我想实验一下
Cause I like to try experiments 就在我写日记的期间
As it happens 有一天晚上我出去约会
I went on a date that night 一个我没见过的人 不是Arianna
someone whom I never met before - was not Arianna 是我妈妈给我介绍的
someone that was whom my mom set me up with 我妈和她妈说我们在同一间学校
My mom and her mom talked together in the same school 然后我听说了她的一些很棒的事迹
And I heard wonderful things about her 我很激动
I was very excited 我们见了面以后就更加激动了
and became even more excited when we met 我们坐下来 吃饭聊天 很愉快
And we were sitting down and having a lovely dinner and talking 她是一个经济学家
And she is an economist 非常成功的经济学家
very successful economist 她问我是做什么的
And she asked me what I was doing 我告诉她我是心理学家
and I told her that I was a psychologist 我用我全部的心理知识在她面前表现自己
And I was really impressing her with all my knowledge of psychology 她说"我也对心理学感兴趣"
And she said:"You know I'm also interested in psychology." 我说"这一定会很顺利"
And I said:"This is going really well" 我自己心里说的 不是跟她说
To myself, not to her 我学到了教训 刚开始约会时不要说这样的话
I learned not to say those things on earlier dates 我们坐下来…
So we were sitting down and - you know 要学会失败
learn to fail 我们坐下来聊天
So we were sitting down and talking 然后她说
Then she said "我刚读到一个心理学家的著作"
"Oh, you know,I just read about the psychologist" 她说了这个人的名字
And she said the name 非常著名的一个心理学家
you know, it's a very famous psychologis "你听说过他吧?"
"You know him,right?" 我完全不知道
Now I didn't have the faintest clue who was she 她说的是谁 完全不知道
who she was talking about - no idea 我记得我呆了一下
And I remember pausing for a second 微笑地看着她
and looking at her and just smiling "嗯嗯"
"Hmm, mHmmm" 然后我们继续聊
And the conversation continued to flow 我没有注意到自己说谎了
Now I would not have noticed this 但后来我回到家
except for the fact that afterwards I went home 回想这次的对话
and went over the conversation 我说"慢着 我刚才跟她说谎了"
Then I said "Hey wait a minut, I just lied to her!" 从那时起
And ever since then 我就经常这么做 我指的是说谎
I've been doing this regularly - lying that is 不 我经常这么做
No, I've been doing this regularly 从那时起
Ever since then 我就坚持磨练自己的正直
I've been keeping doing the integrity exercise 用DePaulo说的方法
that DePaulo talks about 用Nathaniel Branden说的方法
that Nathaniel Branden talks about 非常留意我说的话
to be very conscious about my conversations 我这么说是为了表现自己
Am I just saying things to impress 而说的假话吗?
which are not authentic? 我是不是说了小谎?
Am I having those little lies? 因为你们要明白 当我们说实话时
Because you see, when we are telling the truth 我们给自己传达了一个信息
the message that we communicate to ourselves 我们给自己传达的信息是
the message that we communicate to ourselves 我的话是有价值的
is that my words are worthy 我的话很重要 我很重要
my words are important; I matter 当我们不说实话时
And when we don't do that 当我们说谎时
when we tell lies 或者我们想不停地表现自己时
or we are about impressing constantly 我们是在说"这样的我不够好"
we are saying "I'm not good enough as I am." 我需要成为另一个人 让别人来喜欢我
I need to be someone else so that the other person likes 我需要知道这个心理学家
I need to know that psychologist 不然她就不会喜欢我
because otherwise she won't like me 而不是做真实的自己
instead of being authentic and real 选择被认同而不是被了解
instead of being known rather than validated 用这个方法坚持一周
and doing it and being conscious of it for a week  at a time 直到行为改变了我们的态度
until the behavior changes our attitude 我开始更重视我的话
and I begin to value my words much more 当我跟自己传达 我是谁
when I communicate myself - who I am 而不是想着让别人觉得自己很厉害时
rather than trying to impress others 当我肯定自己时
When I assert myself 当我时不时地说"不"时
when I say no at times 这样我就能简化我的生活
so that I can simplify my life a little bit 当我该说是的时候说是
when I say yes when it's appropriate 即使这个"是"不是很受欢迎
even it's not the most popular yes in the world 但我应该这样说
but it's right for me 还要从时间和空间上把这个方法扩展开来
And it's about expanding it in time as well as in space 首先从我自己开始
It is started first of all by myself 为什么写日记这么有用?
why does journaling help so much? 为什么有移情心的治疗师
Why does therapy with an empathic therapist 他们的治疗这么有效?
why does it work so well? 因为我们活出了自我
Because we are ourselves 我们没有想着在治疗师面前表现自己
we don't try impress the therapist 一段时间后 我们打开心扉
After a while we open up 我们没有想着在日记里表现自己
We don't try to impress our journal 我们活出了自我
We are ourselves 从让我们感觉良好的日记扩展到
And expanding it from our journal which makes us feel good 亲近的关系和人
to close relationships, to others 从一天一次对话中练习正直
from doing it one day one conversation at a time 到坚持一周 然后坚持一生
to a week of integrity treatment so to speak to lifelong 想象一下 过这样的生活
Imagine leading this life 当你不用再不停地表达或表现自己时
how freed up do we feel when you no longer need to express 我们会感到多自由
or impress ourselves constantly 我们能够被了解
where we can just be known 能够活出自我
where we can just be ourselves 这样会多轻松
how much lighter 多有力量
how much more power 我们会觉得多正直和真实
how much more integrity and authenticity we will experience 我们会多快乐?
how much happier will we be? 我想在下课前读一段Melissa Christino的日记
I want to end by reading you an excerpt from Melissa Christino's journal 是她在她的毕业论文中引用的
which she cited in her senior thesis 当然这是得到她允许的
This, of course is with her permission Melissa Christino是哈佛本科毕业生 2002届
Melissa Christino was an undergraduate here, class of 2002 她是这样写的
And this is what she writes "你真正的潜力
"Your true potential lies way 埋藏在你的灵魂深处
way down in the depths of your soul... 在你腹部最底处
in the pit of your stomach 在你的知识和紧张触及不到的地方
past your knowledge, beyond your nervousness 埋藏在你的恐惧和焦虑之下
and buried under your fears and anxieties 虽然它隐藏起来了
As hidden as it may be 但它还在那里
it is still there 我知道 因为我以前感受过它的存在
I know it's there because I've felt it before 我知道别人也有
and I know it's there in others too 因为我见过别人做过奇迹一般的事
because I've seen others perform miracles 我们体内都有一股无可匹敌的潜力 散发着微弱的光芒
There is a faint glow of unparalleled potential in all of us 当我们找到它时 它就会发出万丈光芒"
and when we find it — it shine." 我们每个人都有这丝微光
It's there in each and every one of us - this glow 如果我们助长它 培养它 它就会壮大
And if we feed it, if we cultivate it, it grows 它就会壮大到超越自己
And it grows to the level that expands beyond the self 这时候 像Warren Bennis这样的人
where people like Warren Bennis 像曼德拉这样的人
where people like Nelson Mandela 像Anita Roddick这样的人
where people like Anita Roddick 像特蕾莎修女这样的人 他们的存在
people like mother Teresa - just their presence 他们的存在 就能为别人散发光芒
just their presence, their being shines a light onto others 现在我想这样做
So what I'd like you to do now 只剩四分钟
we have 4 more minute 我想这样做
here's what I'd like to do now 我会放一首歌给大家听
I'm going to play a song for yo 通常我会在上课前放的
usually played at the beginning 但今天我想在最后才放
I want to play it at the end today 如果你们喜欢的话
If you feel comfortable 可以闭上眼睛 听歌词
you can close your eyes and listen to the words of the song 它们对你有什么意义
and what they mean to you 对你的生活有什么意义
what they mean in the context of your life 所以如果你们喜欢
So if you feel comfortable 闭上眼睛听
close your eyes, and listen 听听以下的歌词
really listen to the following words 我就是我
I am what I am 我独一无二
I am my own special creation 看我一眼
So come take a look 对我嗤之以鼻
Give me the hook 或为我鼓掌
Or the ovation 这是我的世界
It's my world 我想拥有一点骄傲
That I want to have a little pride in 我的世界
My world 在这里我不用躲藏
And it's not a place I have to hide in 生命毫无价值
Life's not worth a damn 直到你能说
Till you can say 我就是我
I am what I am 睁开眼睛
Open your eyes! 来吧 上来
C'mon! Get up 我就是我
I am what I am 好的 我们下去
All right. Let's go down 和他们一起跳
Let's join them 



 Chapter 22: 收获交流


大家好
Hello 我叫Pearl Hoddling
Hi, My name is Pearl Hoddling 是来自Kirkland House的大四学生
And I'm a senior in Kirkland House 我希望你们能在这周六上午10点
And I'm here to ask you to join me this Saturday 到下午2点参加Hendriana和Maquat的免费薄饼计划
from 10 to 2 for free pancakes from Hendriana's table and Maquat 九年前
Nine years ago 我父亲被诊断出患有帕金森症
my dad was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease 一种神经疾病
a neurological disorder 尽管他 我的家人和我经历了很多起伏坎坷
Though he, my family and I have gone through many ups and downs 既是生理上的 也是情感上的
both physical and emotional 我最终找到一种方式来献绵薄之力
I finally found a way to help 一个明确的选择
a definitive op 我想参与这个活动"帕金森薄饼"
I want to put on this event ＂Pancakes for Parkinson's＂ 已经办了好几年了
for a few years now 直到今年我才鼓起勇气参加
And I didn't get the guts to do it until this year 谢谢你 Tal
Thank you. Tal 帮我克服我的拖延症
for helping me to get over my procrastination 开始积极地
and start building a positive spiral 来寻找治疗帕金森的方法
for finding a cure for Parkinson's disease 所有捐赠直接捐给Michael J.Fox
All donations will go directly to Michael J.Fox foundation 帕金森研究基金
for Parkinson's research 期待周六10点到2点你们的参与
So please come between 10 and 2 this Saturday 出于善意来享用薄饼
to enjoy pancake for a good cause 谢谢
Thank you 我叫Maureen Hilton
Hi, My name is Maureen Hilton 我也是这门课的一个学生
And I'm a fellow student of this class 我在哈佛工作
And I work here at Harvard College 我想邀请诸位
I would like to invite you all 来参加我的积极心理学报告
to my positive psychology presentation 是下周五
which is next Friday 5月9号下午两点在哈佛礼堂
May 9th at 2 pm in Harvard Hall 下周五的主要目的
The main goal hope for next Friday 是希望能聚集
is bring together in one room 哈佛所有对积极心理学有兴趣的人们
people interested in positive psychology here at Harvard 包括各层次的哈佛管理人员
This includes Harvard administrators of all levels 这门课的教师 学生
the class's teaching staff, students 不管是曾经上过幸福课的
whether they are alumni of past positive psychology class 或是正在上的
or current students of this class 不管是本科还是继续教育
whether college or extension school 或者希望未来能拥有积极心态的学生
or students who hope that there's positive psychology here in the future 以及你们想邀请的任何人
and certainly anyone you would like to invite 希望这能成为你们一次分享故事
Please let this be an opportunity for you to share your stories 以及这门课如何影响你人生的机会
and the reasons why this class has impacted your life 此外
And in addition 为了协助这次聚会的联系和交流
to help the networking and socializing part of this gathering 哈佛Callback合唱团会进行演出
the Harvard Callbacks will be singing 你们可能认识的大四学生 Gina
the seniors who you may know - Gina Skylar和Kedar会表演他们
Skylar and Kedar will be singing their solos 可能在哈佛的最后一次独唱
for possibly the last time here at Harvard 现场会提供免费食物
And there will be free food 诸位可以随意邀请想邀请的人
Again, please feel free to bring and invite anyone you like 尤其是希望未来还能开设
especially fellow students who are hoping 幸福课这样一门课程的同学
there's another positive psychology course in the future 无需回复
No RSVP's necessary 来就行了
Just come 因为我们给哈佛教务处留下的
Because what we'll definitely leave a lasting impression 最深印象
on the Harvard administration 就是我们一起享受愉悦的感觉
is if together we create a little peak experience 并聚集了一屋子为了幸福课
and fill a room of people who come together 能有所提升的人
for the promotion of positive psychology 希望你们下周五能来
Please come next Friday 5月9号
May 9th 下午两点在哈佛礼堂
at 2 pm at Harvard Hall 谢谢
Thank you 我也不知该说什么
I don't really know what to say 所以我找了别人来替我说
So I ask someone to say it for me (录像:大青蛙布偶秀"道别")
[VIDEO: THE MUPPET SHOW ＂Saying Goodbye＂] 挥手道别
Saying goodbye 扬帆启程
going away "再见"一词哽塞在喉
Seems like goodbye's such a hard thing to say 双手紧握
Touching our hands 想问为何
wondering why 又是别离时分
It's time for saying goodbye Kermit
Kermit! 再见
Goodbye! 再见
Goodbyyyyyyyye! 挥手道别
Saying goodbye 满心伤悲
why is it sad? 又回忆起过去的好时光
Makes us remember the good times we've had 千言万语
Much more to say 欲言又止
foolish to try 又是别离时分
It's time for saying goodbye 不舍离开
Don't want to leave 你我都懂
but we both know 有时离开也许更好
Sometimes it's better to go 而我知道
Somehow I know 终会重逢
we'll meet again 虽不知何时何地
Not sure quite where and I don't know just when 你永在我心
You're in my heart 重逢之前
so until then 又是别离时分
It's time for saying goodbye 而我知道
Somehow I know 终会重逢
we'll meet again 虽不知何时何地
Not sure quite where and I don't know just when 你永在我心 重逢之前
You're in my heart so until then 带着微笑
Wanna smile 也噙着泪
Wanna cry 与你道别 啦啦啦啦
Saying goodbye~~~La la la la 啦啦啦啦
la la la la 又是别离时分
It's time for saying goodbye 啦啦啦啦
La la la la 啦啦啦啦
la la la la 啦啦啦啦
La la la la-la la la 我需要你们的帮助
So I need your help 我十分紧张
I'm so very nervous 我该怎么办
What can I do? 冥想? 谢谢
Meditate? Thank you 锻炼 现在?
Exercise? Now? 你是说跳舞吗
You mean dance? OK 讲个笑话
Tell a joke 你们给我讲吧
You tell a joke 还有什么别的建议没
What else? Any suggestions? 拥抱 好主意
Hug someone! Good idea 至少要12个拥抱 对吧
At least 12 hugs, right? Yeah 还有什么 深呼吸 很好
Anything else? Deep breath! OK. Good 紧张也没关系? 谢谢
So it's OK to be nervous? Thank you 我已经感觉好多了
Feel better already 这是我在哈佛的最后一节课了
So this is for me the last class at Harvard 还有谁也是一样
Who else is in the same boat? 你的最后一节课
Wow. Your last class 我今天想做的是
What I'd like to do today is 尽可能地总结一下我们一路来
summarize what we've gone through some of the journey 所得的一些收获
as much as possible 我想和你们分享
And what I'd like to do is to share that 这个总结的责任
the responsibility of summarizing 你们也要一起分享
to share it with you 所以我想从你们思考和回忆课程内容开始
so I'd like to start with you thinking and reflecting about the course 换言之我们今天这节课
In other words, we are going to run the class today 就像个亲密互动环节
like a small intimacy section 之后我会讲一遍我认为的
Afterwards I'll go through what I think of some of the highlights 这学期的一些重点知识
main points from the semester 我想先从你们开始
So I want to start with a time-in 给你们机会回顾一下
an opportunity for you to reflect 我尤其希望你们能够回顾
And specifically I would like you to reflect 以下主题 并把它们写下来
on the following things and actually write them down 翻阅一下你们的笔记 搜索一下脑海
So go over your notes or go over your mental notes 写下至少两样你觉得这学期最有意义
and write down at least two things that were particularly meaningful 或你觉得最有趣的东西
or interesting for you from this semester 不管是课上听到的内容
whether it's something that you heard in lecture 小组讨论时的话题
something you discussed in section 你阅读时读到的东西
something that you read 课后你和朋友讨论过的
something that you talked about with your friends after class 和这门课有所联系的问题
and somehow was connected to your experience here 什么都可以 至少两样对你来说最有意义
anything or at least two things that were personally meaningful 或最有趣的东西
and interesting to you 这是第一个内容
So this is the first thing 我想让你们写下的第二个内容
The second thing that I'd like you to write down 你们可能以前试过
and you may have done it before 可能以前写过
You may have written it before 至少两样你所决心做的转变
at least two commitments that you are making 两种行为转变或态度转变
two behavioral changes or attitudinal changes 两样你要付诸实施的改变
two commitments that you are taking upon yourself 既然学期也都快结束了
now that the semester is almost over 再说一遍 至少两样有意义或有趣的事
So again, two meaningful or interesting ideas at least 以及至少两个转变
and at least two commitments 不管是建立习惯
whether it's in the form of rituals 态度转变 或行为转变
attitudinal change or behavioral change 花一点时间把它们写下来
So take just a few minutes to do that in a time-in 好
OK 现在我希望你们做的 当然是完全
Now what I'd like you to do - and this is completely voluntary 自愿的
of course 就是分享一些你们学过的
is share some of the things that you've learned 或至少一样这学期学过的有意义
or at least one thing that you learned that was personally meaningful 或很有趣的东西
or interesting to you from this semester 以及如果你们愿意的话
and if you feel comfortable 那两样转变其中的一样
the one of the two commitments 或两样一起分享给
or both commitments that you've taken upon yourselves 你身边的那位同学
with the person next to you 或你身边的两位同学
or with two people next to you 花五分钟来彼此分享一下
So take just 5 minutes to share with one another 一样有趣或有意义的事
one interesting or meaningful thing 以及一到两种转变
and one commitment or two 好
OK 我希望你们在今天或人生中
I hope you continue the rest of your day 余下的时间还能继续分享学过的知识
for the rest of your life sharing what you've learned 正在学的知识
what you are learning 你如何成长
how you are growing 我现在想做的是
Now what I would like to do is 听听你们讲讲一样
hear some of you just talk about you know one thing 你认为它
perhaps that you find 有趣或有意义的事
found interesting or meaningful 可以是课堂内容 也可以来自其他涉猎
that could be directly from the class or something tangential 但却是这学期对你来说有趣或有意义的东西
but what was meaningful or interesting for you this semester 我们把话筒在整个教室传递
And we have some microphones spread around the room 有没有人愿意做第一个自愿讲讲的
So if anyone would like to be the first one, to volunteer 还记得吗 勇气并不是没有畏惧
remember courage is not about not having fear 而是有了畏惧还坚持向前
it's about having fear and going ahead anyway 如果勇气是没有畏惧
If courage was about not having fear 我就不会来教这门课了
I would not be teaching this class Elizabeth
Elizabeth 我觉得对我来说最重要的东西就是
I think for me what the most important thing was was the idea 自我和谐的目标
of self-concordant goal 不是浮躁或自私的
not being frivolous or selfish 而是一种每个人都应该
but actually being something that 积极追求的 可以帮助你身边的人
one should actively pursue and can help the people around you 而非别人让你追求什么 你就追求什么
more than by pursuing that what you are told to pursue 很好 消除自我和他人之间的分歧
Great. So essentially dissolving this divide between self and the other 还记得吗
And remember 达赖喇嘛 当他到了西方国家后有多惊讶
the Dalai Lama - how surprised he was when he came to the west 他听说我们的"同情"这个词
and he heard our word for compassion 指的是对其他人的同情
means essentially compassion toward others 而藏语中Sawai既指对他人的同情
whereas Sawai in Tibetan means compassion toward others 也包括对自我的同情
and compassion toward oneself 它们是彼此交融的
They go hand in hand; they are intertwined 所以要找到自我和谐的目标
So identifying our self-concordant goals 很大程度上就是要帮助自我
is very much about helping ourselves 并最终使世界变得更美好
and ultimately making the world a better place 非常好 谢谢你
Wonderful. Thank you 我觉得Roger Bannister对我来说很有意义
I found the Roger Bannister story really meaningful to me 尤其因为我现在明白了一切皆有可能
especially because now I know nothing is impossible 即使科学家说有些事是不可能的
even there are scientists telling you things are impossible 你也还是可以做到的
You can still achieve them 对 人们经常会跟说 这是不可能的
Right. You know so often people tell us that it's impossible 你做不到
you can't do it 我们的脑海中总是回响着这样的声音
And we have that voice at the back of our mind 这些狭隘的想法
those limiting beliefs 这种狭隘既包括对我们的感觉
whether it's limiting beliefs about how we can feel 也包括我们所能做到的事
can feel; and what we can achieve 而Roger Bannister的故事
And what Roger Bannister's story does 能够帮我们打破一些这样的束缚
what it helps us do is chip away some of these limitations 挖掘自身的潜能
and understand our potential 谢谢你 请说
Thank you. Yes 那天你提到了关于你祖母的故事
The day when you told the story about your grandmother 她是如何历经坎坷后 终于看到
and how she was able to still see so much beauty in the world 世间种种美景的
after everything she had been through 这深深地打动了我
was very, very moving for me 在这样的学术氛围中能如此感动
And that was a very unique experience to 实在是一种特殊而难得的体验
be so emotionally moved in this academic setting 真的很有力量
So that was really powerful 也使我重新审视自己
And that really made me reevaluate the way 看待人生的方式以及
I look at my life and the way that 珍惜我所有的东西的方式
I appreciate the things that I have 谢谢 谢谢
Thank you, Thank you 我很喜欢那个"我们忘记坏事情
I really like the idea that we can get over things 比我们想象的快得多"的观点
bad things a lot quicker than we would anticipate 我经常思考这一点
I just think that you know so often 我们总是骗自己说有多成功
we cheat ourselves of so much success 多么有潜能 多么快乐
so much potential, pleasure 但我想
but I think, you know 朝着目标向前冲
just the idea of going forward and 就算没能达到也会最终释怀的想法
that we will ultimately get over it if it doesn't work out 是非常重要的
That's really important 没错
Right, yes. So you know 我们有所成就时
just like when we achieve something good 能回复平和 感觉就像从前一样
we go back to base level and feel like as we did before 而当我们失败时
also when we fail 要是知道我们是能重新振作的
And it's a real liberating feeling to know that 是会很快恢复的
that we are resilient 是很能让人解脱的
that we will recover 谢谢
Thank you 请说
Yes 在我看来 找到竞争主义者和享乐主义者之间的
For me, it was important to realize balance between the rat racer 平衡点很重要
and the hedonist 以及短期益处和长期益处之间的平衡
finding the balance between short term benefit and long term benefit 是的
Right. You know 人生经常会遇到"非此则彼"的情况
so much of our lives is about ＂either or＂ 要么我是个成功的竞争主义者
Either I'm a successful rat racer 要么就是个放弃成功的享乐主义者
or I'm a hedonist who has given up essentially on success 而我们其实通常都能将两者融合
Whereas what we can very  often do is reconcile the two 就像咬一口蛋糕还保持其基本完整
You know, eat the cake and leave it whole - so it seems 长远益处和近期益处的结合
Future benefit and present benefit in one 谢谢
Thank you 被人所知而非被证明 以及你教课的方式
To seek to be known and not validated - and the way you taught the class 比如上课前会讲
opening up, let's say 你人生中经历的许多失败
each individual failure you had in your life 我就觉得自己
I found myself 我自己的失败 它们是不同的
my own failures - they are different 但又是统一的
but they are the same 我觉得没那么孤单了
I felt less lonely 谢谢 你知道吗
Thank you. You know when 我在第一节课就讲过的 Carl Rogers说过
what I shared at I think the very first class here was what Carl Rogers said "最个人的也是最大众的"
which is ＂what is most personal is most general＂ 因为从本质来说 这些都是人性
Because deep down humanity is humanity, is humanity 当我们活在这世上 有被了解的欲望
And when we live in the world with the desire to be known 表达自我
expressing ourselves 这是我们最能和他人触碰的时候
that's I think when we can reach out most to others 不管是爱情
whether it's in a romantic relationship 友情
whether it's in friendships 或是同学之间
whether it's in a classroom 谢谢
Thank you 请说
Yes 我从这门课上学到的一点就是
One thing I would take away from this class is 要学会感恩
to be conscious about being grateful 因为有时我感觉
because sometimes I feel that 人们总是把最爱的人当做理所当然
you take for granted the people you love the most 感恩 我们的周围和内心
To be grateful - there are so many treasures of happiness 都有那么多快乐和幸福
of well being all around us and within us 最重要的是睁开我们的双眼
And the challenge is just to open our eyes 去感受它们
to appreciate them 请说
Yes 对我来说特别棒的就是
What was really amazing to me 这门课对其他不是学生的人很开放
was how open others where not in the class 比如家人以及其他不学这门课的同学
such as family and other friends not in the class 同样也能这样改变他们的人生
to also take on this change in their life 他们并不会刻意感觉到这对他们有好处
They didn't see it as some cookie self-help thing 而是
but really as "对 也许我该记下所有
＂Oh yeah, maybe I should take note of 我生活中该感恩的东西" 以及其他的
all the things I'm grateful for in my life＂and other exercises 是的
Yeah, you know 这就是传递
this is paying it forward 有时我们很害怕说出自己看重的东西
Sometimes we are so afraid to talk about things that matter to us 而当我们说出它时
And when we do 当我们是真实的
and when we are real 当我们是真挚的
when we are genuine 当我们表达自我时
when we express ourselves 这些东西是会传染的
these things are contagious 我们会将其传递出去
And we pay it forward 它们再继续不断传递
And then they pay it forward 谢谢 请说
Thank you. Yes 在学这门课之前
Before taking this class 我将自己的悲喜都归咎于周围的事物
I blame my mood and my happiness a lot on those going around me 比如我的环境
like my circumstances 学这门课真的帮到我很多
So taking this class really helped me 意识到周围环境其实并不会掌控你的快乐
aware the circumstances really don't control your happiness level 我应该更积极地了解自己的感受
that I have more than an active role like how I feel 是的
Right. You know 还记得我们讲过
remember one of the things we talked about is that 至少我不认为什么事都能一帆风顺
at least I don't believe that things necessarily happen for the best 有时我们会遇到坏情况
You know there are some times where there are bad circumstances 糟糕的情况
poor circumstances 艰难的情况
hard circumstances 最大的挑战其实是我们如何
the challenge though is how can we make the best 能更好地利用发生的一切
of that which have happened 我们确实比自己想象的更有力量来掌控
And we do have much more control over it than we think 请说
Yes 这门课让我几乎每天都能很多次地
The class allowed me so many times during almost every day 感受到我是个普通人
to understand something is part of me being human 我允许自己为人
as part my permission to be human 而不是自己臆想出来的
rather than conceive it as my feelings 或者总想着我没做好的事
or something that I wasn't doing well enough 允许为人
So the permission - you know 我反复多次提到了它 并将继续提到
I've repeated it for so many times and I'll continue to repeat it 即使到了生命最后几分钟也会继续
until use every last minute that I have to do it 因为从很多方面来说它确实是幸福的基础
because it's really on so many levels the foundation of well being 不幸的是我们如今的文化
And unfortunately too much in our culture today 过于强调我所说的
what is going on is what I call "巨大的骗局"
＂the great deception＂ 我们认为每个人都很棒 就我不行
where we think well everyone is doing great except for me 所以我要假装我也很棒
So I'm going to pretend that I'm doing great too 然后我们就成了"巨大骗局"的一部分
And then we become part of that great deception 一定要反复强调
reinforcing it 允许为人
The permission to be human 请讲
Yes 关于完美主义的那些内容
The whole piece about perfectionism 我从没觉得自己是个完美主义者
I have never seen myself as a perfectionist 我觉得那是种自我否定
and I think it's just kind of self denial 通过课堂上的练习以及
So through the exercises in the course as well as 课本的内容
you know in the book 我们做的各种阅读 真的使我
different readings that we've done have really allowed me to 去探索 去接受它
explore that, and accept that 并主动地作出改变来远离它
and make proactive changes in my life to grow away from that 很好 完美主义同样是人们经常隐藏的
Great. You know perfectionism is again another thing that so many people hide 因为完美主义者从定义上说就不愿意显露出弱点
because perfectionist almost by definition doesn't want to show the weakness 正如我在课上所说的
And as I mentioned in the class 我认为不完美主义是在向着
unperfectionism for me has been the most important 幸福前进的道路上最重要的一点
in terms of my progression toward becoming happier 接受不可避免的失败
Accepting failure as an inevitable 接受人生不会是一条直线
accepting that life is not a straight line 而是有起有伏的螺旋
but rather a spiral with ups and downs 但主轴仍然在
along with the general trajectory 也就是进步 成长 和允许为人
as improvement, growth and permission 我觉得最有共鸣的一点就是
So for me one of the things that really resonated 就是重新构建问题
was the idea of reframing the question 在学期刚开始时
At the very beginning 你讲到消极和积极的研究
you spoke about the fact that there was the 21 to 1 ratio 所得到的21:1的比例
of negative to positive research 对于我这样马上要进行神经生物学研究的人来说
And as someone who will be going into research in neurobiology 能够重建世界观是很有趣的
it was really interesting just reframing of a world view 开始思考
just start thinking of 也许
well perhaps 开始思考对于研究来说什么是最重要的
start looking at what is working in terms of research 我会在自己的学术领域中用到它
And, so I will take that with me into my academics 问题的重要性 问题能创造我们的现实
The importance of questions - questions create our reality 还记得公车上的孩子们的问题吗
Remember the question of the children on the bus 很多人都忽视了
which most people completely missed 年复一年我们在城市中对高危人群
remember years and years of research that was done in the inner cities 进行研究
with at risk population 却总是找不到改善他们生活的方法
where they missed the answer to how can we improve their lives 因为他们没有问出积极的问题
They missed it because they did not also ask the positive question 我很快会讲 这也适用于我们生活的各个方面
And it applies into every area of our lives as I'll talk about soon 请说
Yes 此前我一直是个拖延的人
Before, I always procrastinate 这是我学习中的大问题
That is my big problem for my academic 现在我进步了很多
Now I improved a lot 非常感谢你
Thank you very much 拖延症
Procrastination - you know 70%的大学生抱怨说有拖延症
70 percent of students in universities complain about procrastination 这是个大问题
It's a huge issue 克服它的一种方式
And one of the ways to overcome it 克服它的最好方式就是去做
the best way to overcome it is to just do it 还记得五分钟休息吗
Just start - remember the five minute take-off 那非常重要
That's so important 谢谢
Thank you 请说
Yes 我对我们
I was just really 阅读的Gilbert的作品印象非常深刻
really impressed with the reading that we read by Gilbert 讲的是关于生活中的好运
that was talking about how the good luck in your life 以及你觉得自己置身的美好状态
and the wonderful circumstances you find yourself in 其实都是你自己创造的
are really your own making 通过改变你的外表和衣着
And by changing your outlook and your patterns 你可以每日逐渐改变自己的幸福感
you can really make a difference in your happiness day to day 很多人活着会想
Yeah. You know so many people live lives and think "这个..."
＂well…＂ 要是我没遇到这个人就好了
only I didn't meet that person 要是这种事情没发生在我身上
if only this hasn't happen to me 我就会很幸福的
I would have been happy 要明白这其中很大一部分
And understanding that so much of it is 都是由我们的理解决定的是很重要的
determined by our perception is very empowering 请说
Yes 对我来说最有意义的
What has been most meaningful for me 其实就是这门课的存在
has been in fact that this class exists 有这么多人关心幸福
and that there are so many people interested in happiness 因为在哈佛这样的氛围中
cause you know the culture here at Harvard 我们不一定总有机会来思考这个
we don't always get the chance to really think about it 正如你所说
And as you said, you know it's 你只是提醒我们一些已经知道的事
you are just reminding us what we already know 也让我们知道 我们了解它是正常的
but it's also letting us know that we are not crazy for knowing it 是的
Yeah, we are not 我们并不孤单
We are not alone 我们需要有人提醒 其他人也需要
And we need that reminder and other people need that reminder 通过提醒其他人
And by reminding other people 我们也提醒了自己
we also remind ourselves 谢谢
Thank you 请说
Yes 我觉得是正直的概念
For me it's the concept of integrity 因为我认为我们都是诚实的人
because I think we are all honest people 但就是每天的各种小事情
but it's the little things at times each day 让我们的信仰屈服
when we compromise our beliefs 或者让我们言行不一
or act in a way that doesn't align with how we think we should 这会对我们的自尊造成影响
and that that really takes toll on our self esteem 所以时刻意识到并保持我们的正直
And so the idea of being constantly aware of and maintaining our integrity 能让我们对自我感觉更良好
I think really stands to helps us feel better about ourselves 当我们说真话时
Because when we tell the truth 其实正给自己传递了某种信息
we are communicating a certain message to ourselves 当我们表达自我时
when we express ourselves 我们在给自己传递某种信息
we are communicating a certain message to ourselves 这个信息就是我的话有分量 我有分量
And the message is my words count; I count 当我们表达
When we express "我很棒"
＂we are good enough＂ 无需过分想给他人留下印象
don't need to put on a facade or impress 而这个信息
Then the message 这个自我知觉理论能提升
the self perception theory actually enhances 我们对自身的看法
how we feel about ourselves 更不用说对人际关系的提升了
not to mention that it helps interpersonal communication 也能使世界变得更美好
And the world would be a better place 如果越来越多人能够正直
if more and more people acted with integrity 那么同样自我和他人之间的分歧就会消除
And again, self and others divide dissolves 请说
Yes 你在课堂上和我们分享的
One the the phrases that you shared with us 一句话深深震撼了我
in your lectures that's really impacted me 我事实上已经将其作为了座右铭
and I've actually embraced it as a kind of personal mantra is "学会失败 或从失败中学习 没有别的法子"
＂learn to fail or fail to learn; there's no other way＂ 经过这门课的学习 我意识到
And I kind of realized throughout the course, this class 我曾经是个怎样的完美主义者
what a perfectionist I have been 以及我人生中有多少次
and how much time throughout my life 我的早期回忆一直在折磨自己
my earliest memories have stuck really torturing myself 焦虑 以及对犯错的恐惧
the anxiety and fear of making a mistake 重构这些 真正回头看那些不可避免的
and to reframe that and really look at those inevitable moments 失败时刻 能成为我前进的动力
where I messed up as you know fuel for moving forward, as opportunities 我面前突然一片开阔
has been wildly liberating 非常感谢你
So I thank you for that 谢谢
Thank you "学会失败 从失败中学习"的概念
The notion of ＂learn to fail and fail to learn＂ 其实也是我的个人座右铭
as you know is my personal mantra as well 它能让人解脱
It's very liberating 在人际关系中
It's liberating within the context of relationship 在学业成绩中
within the context of our academic performance 在一个组织的各个层面中
within the context of an organization on every level 重要的是要知道没有其他更好的学习方法
And it's important to understand that there is no other way to learn 不管是画圆圈或学走路
whether it's to draw a circle or to walk 这只是人生的一部分
It's just part of life 如果我们接受它
And if we accept it 我们就能更快乐
we are much happier for it 谢谢
Thank you Elizabeth
Elizabeth 对我来说特别有意义的就是
What's really been really meaningful to me in deciding 真正要专心追求的东西
what concentration to pursue 快乐是最终的目的
is the idea of happiness is ultimate currency 要试图消除外界的影响
and trying to kind of eliminate outside influences 认真思考对我来说有意义的到底是什么
and really think about what is meaningful to me 在我所学的东西中什么能让我快乐
and what will make me happy in what I study 谢谢
So thank you 最终目的
The ultimate currency 很多人说美国人
you know many people say about Americans 之所以抑郁水平不断攀升
that one of the reasons why the levels of depression are on the rise 之所以有那么多不快乐的人
one of the reasons why there are so many unhappy people 其中一个原因就是美国人有过高的期望
is because Americans have too high expectations 这是错的
And that's not true 我不同意 研究也不能证明这一点
I disagree with it; and the research disagrees with it 这不是高期望或低期望的问题
It's not about having high versus low expectations 而是正确或错误的期望的问题
it's about having right versus wrong expectations 这适用于很多领域
And it applies to, to many areas 但我们要明白的一点是
but one of the things to understand is that 我们在人生中从何处获得满足
where do we look to gain gratification from our life 是来自下一句赞美
Is it from, again getting the next accolade 下一次升职 或人们说我们有多棒吗
the next promotion or the people tell us how wonderful our concentration is? 还是来自我们想做的事
Or is it from doing what we want to do 换言之我们最终的目的所决定的事
in other words, being determined by the ultimate currency 而最终的目的就是快乐
and understanding that happiness is the ultimate currency? 谢谢
Thank you 请说
Yes 我觉得这整个学期 这一整年
I feel that all this semester and all this year in fact 我都一直在
I have been trying to 要么上课 要么跑向实验室
I have been either going to class or running to lab or 寻找方法来填满我的每一天
just finding some way to fill up every hour of my day 似乎我永远在从一处跑向另一处
And it seems like I'm constantly running from one place to another 似乎我整个人生
And it seems all my life I have been 都在试图填满每一分钟
just essentially trying to fill up every hour of my day 我觉得特别重要的
And I feel what's really important and 我真的学到的就是你所说的
what I really got from this is what you said about 做得少其实是更多
doing less is more 我会很认真地在我接下来
And that's something I'm definitely going to take 在哈佛的三年中将这一点铭记于心
like keep in mind the next three years when I'm here 对 做得少其实是更多
Yeah, less is more 数量会影响质量
Quantity affects quality 我们经常好奇
And we so often wonder you know "我为什么不快乐"
＂how come I am unhappy?＂ 我人生中有这么多美好的东西
I have so many things in my life that are wonderful and amazing 这可能就是问题的一部分
And that could be part of the problem 因为更多不一定意味着更好
Because more is not always better 要把事情简化很难 这是很重要的
Not easy to simplify - that's so very important 非常重要
So very important 请说
Yes 复杂性另一面的简单性的概念
The concept of simplicity on the other side of complexity 我觉得非常奇妙
is so awful for me, because you know 当一个人成长时
when you grow up in life 就会加入各种各样的变量 变得越来越复杂
you add all these variables and it becomes more and more complicated 不能把问题简化是很让人沮丧的
And as a is certain frustration about not being able to simplify 但你说到了复杂的顶点后
But when you say at the top of the complexity 你会发现那种美
is when you realize the beauty 发现简单是出现在复杂之后
realizing that the simplicity comes after complexity 而非复杂之前
not before complexity 而对复杂性的理解
And the knowledge of complexity 那是个非常棒的概念
that's an amazing concept Oliver Wendell Holmes讲到了
So Oliver Wendell Holmes talks about the simplicity 复杂性另一面的简单性
on the other side of complexity 这适用于不管是... 这门课大部分内容
And that applies whether it's to ideas - and again this class 都是很简单的
most of it is very simple 没有什么特别复杂的概念
And there were no very complicated concepts here 但它们很多都是复杂性另一面的简单
But many of them are the simplicity on the other side of complexity 对个人来说也是一样
Same on the individual level 我们经常会遇到困难 生活很艰难
Very often we go through hardships and our life is so difficult 我们会经历危机 严酷的考验
We go through a crisis, through a crucible 而我们要做的就是明白
And what we need to do to understand 当我们经历了这些复杂 艰难
when we are going through that complexity and hardship 严峻的考验和坎坷起伏之后
and the crucible and the difficulties 另一面就是简单
is that there is simplicity on the other side 通常我们要做的往往就是坚持
Very often all we need to do is hang on 再等待一会儿
Just wait a little bit longer 就会更清楚明了
And there'll be more clarity 更能成长
more growth 更能进步
more development 最终更快乐
more joy at the end of it 请说
Yes 在传递话筒时
On your passing on the mic 我在想
I was like "天啊 我不知该说什么
＂Oh my God, I don't really have anything to say 太多人了 我没法做到的"
There are so many people, I will never do that.＂ 然后你说勇气不是没有畏惧
And then you said courage is not about fearless 而是有了畏惧还坚持向前
but about having fear and doing it anyway 所以我一下就把顾虑都抛弃了
So I just threw my pack over the wall 就像"给我话筒 我要说!"
I was like＂Give me that mic! I'm gonna do it!＂ 而它现在在我手上 我在说话
And it's in my hand and I'm speaking 所以非常感谢
So thank you for that 就是这样
That's what it is about 这就是行为转变
It's about behavioral change 而不是理论 很好
Not in theory. Good 请说
Yes 你前几节课讲了关于匿名的世界
You've spoken in the past few lectures about in an anonymous world 如果一切行为是匿名的 我们会如何生活
and about how we would live if our action is anonymous 我认为知道我们真正想要的并勇敢追求
And I think that knowing what we want and actually pursuing 我们想要的东西是很有挑战性的
what we want is or can be really challenging 甚至是让人畏惧的
even frightening 能够真正了解自己想要的
It just seems like you really know what you want and pursued 并一心追求它
and pursue what you want 我觉得这是非常值得自豪的
And I think that is something to be really proud of 而你确实实践了你所教给我们的东西
And you definitely seem to practice what you preach and teach 因此我对你有着崇高的敬意
And I have enormous amount of respect for you because of that 谢谢
Thank you 谢谢
Thank you 你讲过很多东西
There are many things 但有一样我确实学到的就是
but one thing I'm really learned from this class is 专注于我们真正想做的事
it is important to focus on what we really, really like to do 你在课堂上说过很多次
You said many time in the class 教书就是你的使命
teaching is your calling 我能看得出来你有多热爱教学
And I can see how much you enjoy teaching 这让我很有感触
And it was really inspiring to me 我会记住这一点
So I think I will remember that 并不断寻找我的使命
and I will keep looking for my calling 我真正想做的到底是什么
and what I really, really like to do 谢谢
Thank you 请说
Yes 找到拿着话筒的人
Let's take someone with the microphone 把话筒给你
And we'll get it to you 有人有话筒吗
Anyone has a microphone? 好的
Wait. OK 我以前是个总喜欢逃避问题的人
I used to be the kind of person who like run away from my problems 总是试图忽视问题
and I used to try to ignore them 直到它们消失
until they went away 而现在我不再这样了
And I don't do that anymore 因为我知道如果我不开心
Cause I know that if I'm unhappy 唯一能够解决的人就是我自己
the only person who can do something about it is me 我要做出改变
And I need to make a change 这门课给我了很多这样做的帮助
And this class has given me all sorts of tools to do that 谢谢
So thank you 谢谢
Thank you 我想谢谢你告诉我们承诺的力量
I just wanted to thank you for the idea of the power of commitment 它帮助我找到了工作
because it helped me get my job 一边是我想做的事
you know and something that I want to do 也就是记者 一边是我不太感兴趣的
which is journalism versus something that I wasn't excited about 公共关系
doing which is like PR 我想为此感谢你
So I wanted to thank you for that 因为你使我决定投身其中
because you know I decided to jump into it 抛弃一切顾虑
and throw my pack over the wall 所以我才找到自己想要的工作 谢谢
And that's why I got it. So thank you 事实上
You know 粉丝们好
Hi. Neiman fellows 是的
Yes 我记得你说过当拉伸肌肉时
I remember that you talked about when you stretch a muscle 它会变强
it gets stronger 由此引出"拉伸区"的概念
and brought up the idea of stretch zone 我以前没有意识到当我拉伸自己
And I didn't realize how much stronger I would become 去尝试做一些在我的拉伸区
when I stretch myself and do things that weren't in 和恐慌区里的事时 我有多强大
things in my stretch zone and my panic zone 谢谢你
I just thank you 我觉得这门课对我们很多人来说
because I think this class has really been the road map 就像地图一样指引我们改变 变得快乐
A lot of us have needed to change and becomes happier 谢谢
So thank you 谢谢
Thank you 各位下午好
Good afternoon, everyone 我首先想说你太棒了
I'd like to first of all say you are great. Yeah 我是Milwaukee公立学校体系的一名老师
And also I am a proud educator in the Milwaukee public school system 在座有将来想做老师的吗
Are there any future educators in the room? "Milwaukee"
＂Milwaukee!＂ 你之前讲过的
And what you speak of Albert Bandura和自我效能理论
as Albert Bandura and the theory of self efficacy 是非常重要的
is so very important 任何对帮助青年成长或教育有兴趣的人
And anyone who is interested in youth empowerment or education 对孩子们有高期望
it's very, very important 是非常非常重要的
No.1 to have high expectations for our children 尤其是有色人种的孩子
especially children of color 作为教育工作者
cause as an educator 我明白Bandura和Dweck想表达的意思
I see what Bandura talks about and what Dweck talks about 对这些孩子来说弱化了的现实
this diminished sense of reality for these kids 为他们创建了一个完全不同的世界
that produces whole other world for them 我想强调并着重突出这一点
So you know I just want to really focus and kind of stress that 很感谢你讲了这个
And thank you for sharing that 对孩子有高期望是很重要的
That's important to have high expectations for children 当然对自己也是很重要的
and for yourselves of course 没错 自我实现预言经常会改变世界
Right. Beliefs in self-fulfilling prophecies so often create the world 我们的以及我们周围的世界
our world and the world of those around us 基于我们的信仰
based on our beliefs 我们再听几位
Let's take a couple of more 然后我再快速总结一下
And I'll do my quick summary 请说
Yes 好的
OK 请讲吧
Go for it 我知道这已经被提到好几次了
I know this has been mentioned a couple times already 但真的很容易将我们的不快乐归咎他人
but it's so easy to blame others for our unhappiness 或他人的行为
or others' actions 甚至我们自己的行为
or even our own actions for our unhappiness 但你说过很多次我们潜意识中
But you've talked so many times about what's going on 发生的事以及
in our own subconscious and how 潜意识的影响
what subconscious may be doing 可能才是阻止我们不快乐 错了
is might actually preventing our unhappiness 阻止我们快乐的原因
preventing our happiness rather 这让我回想起Marva Collins
And it just brought me back to Marva Collins 如果学生做错了什么事
and how if a student did something wrong 她会让他们看一遍字母表说
she made them go through the alphabet and say 这些都是我好的方面
these are all good things about me 我们真的应该尝试去想
And it's really been enlightening to try to think about 我想的是什么 对他人不做什么
how am I thinking what am I not doing to others 或他人对我做什么
or what others are doing to me 但要思考是什么阻止我变成一个更幸福的人
but what am I thinking that's preventing me from being a happier person 很好 谢谢
That's wonderful. Thank you 再听两位同学
Let's take two more 那位同学
So up there 这门课上我印象最深的两样东西就是
I guess two things that really stuck with me from the class is 你放的小宝宝学走路的录像
the little clip you showed of the baby learning to walk 你想表达的是这个宝宝
And just like what you conveyed the idea like this baby 并不知道他为何会摔倒
has no reason to like have a sense of why he's falling down 也不知道他该为此感到羞耻
and it should be anything that he should be ashamed of 这是种很有效的方法让我们知道
And that was just like a very effective way to kind of convey like 我们要学会失败 从失败中学习
we always saying kind of learn to fail and fail to learn 这让我感触良多
That really stuck with me 以及你愿意说出你自己在做
And also your own willingness to describe your own kind of rises 心理学研究时经历的起起伏伏
and falls as you went through your studies of psychology 以及你在剑桥和哈佛的经历
and your experiences at Cambridge and Harvard 你愿意很开诚布公地和我们分享
and just your willingness to be very open about it 这让我感受到
It's kind of empowering like, for me is 我要毕业了 要继续发展
I'm about to graduate and I go forward 并不清楚自己想做什么
kind of maybe don't know what exactly you want to do 会考虑各种选择
and you consider different options 会感受到对失败的恐惧
and obviously that fear of failures 尤其是来自像哈佛这样的地方
especially when you come from a place like Harvard 更是让人倍感压力
is maybe especially xx 而你愿意和我们分享这些经历
You just you are willing to share these experiences and empowering 我就会重新考虑我要做的决定
I feel as I kind of question the choices I am going to make 对此我非常感谢
So I really appreciate that 谢谢
Thank you 请说
Yes 每一天都是美好的
Every day is a beautiful day 对此感恩能够让我们在做自己
And to be grateful for that somehow makes it easier to go out 不喜欢的事时能更轻松
and try to do things that maybe even we didn't like 以及常识其实并不那么人尽皆知
And common sense is not that common 这些都是... 学的很多东西都是我已经知道的
And these are all - a lot of things that I've learned I already knew 但我现在是在哈佛学到的
but now I learned it at Harvard 好的 很好
Great. All right 我们再听一位同学
Let's take one more 我是大四的 马上要毕业了
So I'm senior and I'm leaving 这可能是我在哈佛上的最后一节课
So this is my last lecture class at Harvard 如果我说的东西对于班里的低年级同学
So I apologize if this message seems a little more geared 太过难以接受 我将为此道歉
towards the undergrads in the class 我印象非常深刻的一点是
one of the things that I'm very impressed with 这样一门涉及面广泛的大课
is a large lecture class that is so far reaching 有如此多人想上这门课
as far as the number of people who want to take it 班里的同学各种各样
and the diversity of students in the class 但我想和大家分享的经历就是
But I guess this experience that I like to share is that 我来到这个课堂
I came into this class 我很诚实 必须承认
admittedly because I value honesty I will say I took it 我认为这会是对艰难的大四
because I thought it would be a nice complement 春季学期一个很好的补充
to an otherwise a difficult senior spring 我就想"这应该是门挺好玩的课"
And I thought,＂Well, it'll be nice class to have.＂ 在我大二时
And my sophomore year 我有点开始探索自我
I had gone through kind of a self discovery 压抑的生活让我用不同的方式来看待事物
post depression that made me kind of value things in a different way 我当时
So I've been 我有了大二的这些想法
I've been using these lessons that I learned sophomore year 我就想"也许这门课就是多余的了"
And I thought＂Well maybe this class will just be redundant＂ 结果后来我又在大四的春季学期
Turns out I went through another really difficult time 经历了艰难的时期
during my senior spring 抱歉
And um... Sorry 我最想和在座的低年级同学分享的
I guess what I'd like to relate to especially the undergrads here 就是如果你是大一的
is that it's very important if you are a freshmen 大二的
if you are a sophomore 甚至大三都不算晚
it's not even too late as juniors 最重要的是搞清楚
it's very important to prioritize 在学校里对你最重要的是什么
what's really important to you at this school 我告诉你们不是论文
And let me tell you it's not the paper 不是讨论的问题
it's not the problem set 不是当你的朋友需要你
it's not getting a full 8 hours sleep 空出一小时时 你却说要保证八小时睡眠
when your friends need your attention for an hour 因为这里的人是最重要的
because the people here matter the most 你以后会想念他们
And you'll miss them 如果你不珍惜现在和他们一起的时光
And if you don't spend time with them now 以后很难再有时间和他们共度
you won't have time to spend time with them later on 这非常重要
So it's very important 搞清楚真正对你有意义的是什么
prioritize what is meaningful for you 和你在学校中真正想做的事
and what you really, really want to do in this school 因为在你不经意间
because before you know it 它就要结束了
it will be over 谢谢你让我铭记这一点
So thank you for helping me remember that 使我的这个学期变得有意义
and making it meaningful semester 谢谢 谢谢你们
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you 现在我来总结一下
Let me summarize 你们刚刚讲到的这些所有东西
All of these things that you already mentioned before 这些不一定是最重要的
these are not necessarily the most important 这些东西
These are the ones that 我无须翻阅笔记就能想到
for me without looking back on my notes came up 首先
First 你所问的问题
the questions that you ask 经常都会决定你所做的探索
will very often determine the quest that you take 如果我们只问消极的问题 比如
And if we only ask the negative questions such as "为什么这么多人失败"
＂why do so many of these individuals fail?＂ 我们就没法看到潜藏在
Then we won't see the potential for greatness 每个人心中的伟大 如果我们只问
that exists in each individual if we only ask "我的人际关系该怎样改善"
＂How can my relationship be improved?＂ 我们就无法看见身边的人
Then we will not see all the wonders and the treasures 所拥有的宝贵财富和奇迹
and the miracle that exist in the person next to us 我们同样要问积极的问题
We also need to ask the positive question 我的人际关系中有什么好的方面
what is good about my relationship? 我的同伴有哪些优点
What is great about my partner? 我自己有哪些优点
What is wonderful about myself? 什么对我最有意义
What is meaningful to me? 什么能使我愉快
What is pleasurable to me? 我擅长什么
What am I good at? 问题会带来探索
Questions start a quest 探索的内容取决于我们
And the kind of the quest they start depends on the quality 所问的问题
of the question that we ask 我们常说信念创造现实
The four minute mile - beliefs create reality 不仅是信念 更宽泛地说
Not only beliefs, but to a great extent 我们如何理解现实才是最后所得的结果
how we perceive reality is what actually comes true Marva Collins相信她的学生
Marva Collins believed in her students 相信她的学生 然后奇迹发生了
believes in her students and miracles happen 那些朽木难雕的学生因为信念而成就卓越
Those unteachable ones become extraordinary because of beliefs 还记得John Carlton关于商学院学生的研究吗
Remember John Carlton's study once again about business school graduates 将卓越和平庸划分开的有两样东西
Two thing distinguish the extraordinary from the rest 一个是他们总在问问题
One was that they were always asking question 总想学习到更多
always wanting to learn more 心怀谦逊 对成长 幸福和自尊
having that humbleness that's so important for growth and well being 尤为重要
and self esteem 其次
And second 他们相信自我
they believed in themselves 他们有自信
They had the confidence 他们有自我效能通往成功和进步
They had the self efficacy to succeed and to thrive 我们如何提升信念?
How do we improve the belief? 通过拉伸自我 去尝试
By putting ourselves on the line, by coping 挑战自我
by taking risks 通过具象化使我们明白自己可以做到
by showing ourselves that we can do it through visualization 成功没有捷径
There are no short cuts to success 学会失败 从失败中学习
Learn to fail or fail to learn 历史上很多成功的杰出人士
It is no coincident that the most successful 同样也是那些失败最惨重的人
extraordinary people in history were also the ones 这并非巧合
who failed the most 无论是在体育界 Babe Ruth
whether it was in sports, Babe Ruth 比同时代任何球员三振出局次数都多
who struck out more than any other players of his time 但也打出过最多的全垒打
but also hit the most home runs 还有Michael Jordan
whether it was Michael Jordan 一次次地表现出失败
who described his failures time and time again 赛点时最后一个绝杀没有投进
whether it's taking the game winning shot where he didn't make it 或不断重复的机械训练
or practicing over and over and over again Thomas Edison 比任何科学家
It's no coincident that Thomas Edison 获得专利都多的人
the person who had more patents 同样也是失败过最多次的人
than any other scientist in history 这也并非巧合
is also the scientist who had failed the most times 还记得Dean Simonton对科学家和艺术家的研究吗
Remember Dean Simonton's work on scientists as well as the artists 最成功的往往是失败得最多的
The most successful ones were also the ones who failed the most 没有别的方法可以学习
There is no other way to learn 而且如果我们接受这一点
Moreover if we accept this 如果我们接受这种成长的心态
if we accept this growth mindset 而不是Carol Dweck所说的固定心态
as opposed to fixed mindset that Carol Dweck talks about it 我们不仅会更有进步
Not only we will be, improve more 也会更加快乐幸福
we will also be happier 因为这样就不会每次经历都是
because then not every experience is a threat to our ego 对自我 自尊的一种威胁
to our self, to our self esteem 如果我们接受失败是不可避免的
If we accept the failure is inevitable 不管是在人际关系中
whether in a relationship 存在失望和争吵
there are disappointments and arguments 还是在个人生活
or in individual life 或从国家来说
or on a national level 没有完美的国家 没有完美的人
no perfect country, no perfect person 没有完美的组织
no perfect organization 如果我们明白生命是个上升的螺旋
And if we understand that life is about this 而非一条直线
as opposed to about this 我们会幸福得多
we'll be so much happier 冷静得多
so much calmer 并且也更加成功
and paradoxically so much more successful 允许为人 世界上有两种人
The permission to be human - there are two kinds of people 不会经历情感创伤
who don't experience painful emotions 哪两种人
Who are they again? 精神病患者和死人
The psychopath and dead people 我很高兴你们都不是精神病患者 也都活着
I'm so glad none of you are psychopath and that you are all alive 这让这门课好上很多
It makes the class so much better 安全很多
so much safer 你不可能学完这门课后
You are not going to come out of this class 就能一直保持人生平顺
experience a constant high 没人能一直保持人生平顺
No one experiences a constant high 你还会经历坎坷起伏
You are going to continue to have those ups and downs 我希望你们唯一能
The only difference I hope 感受到的区别就是当经历感情创伤时
that you will experience now is that when you experience a painful emotion 你会看着它说
you will look at it and say "我只是普通人 我很难过
＂Oh, I'm human. It hurts 真希望事情不是这样
I wish it weren't that way 但我接受它
but I accept it 就像接受重力定律一样
just like you accept the law of gravity 因为重力定律是一种物理本质
because the law of gravity is as much part of physical nature 就像感情创伤是一种人性本质
as painful emotion is a part of human nature 允许为人
Permission to be human 在课堂上我们讲了很多种干预
We talked about many interventions that work in this class 大多数干预并不起作用 正如
Most interventions don't work as we've seen Somerville的研究和其他研究显示的
whether it's with the Somerville study or others 而日记可以
Journaling works 在写东西时 我们在打开内心
When we write, when we open up 不管是写 还是和我们关心的人倾诉
whether it's in writing or sharing with a person we care about 可以是心理咨询师
And it can be a therapist 可以是好朋友 爱人
It can be our best friend, our partner 当我们分享 开放内心时
When we share, when we open up 我们就能建立一种感觉
we are able to make sense 用Antonovsky的话来说就是"关联性的感觉"
create ＂a sense of coherence＂ in the words of Antonovsky 来看待我们生命中的经历
about the experiences of our lives 得到更高层次的快乐
and enjoy higher levels of happiness 这是有用的
It works 我们周围和内心有那么多快乐
There are so many treasures of happiness all around us and within us 而问题在于我们注意到它们了吗
And the question is do we notice them? 还是把它们想成理所当然
Or do we take them for granted? 回忆一下appreciate这个词
Remember the word, appreciate 有两种意思
It has two meanings: 一种是表示谢谢 这是很好的
one is to say thank you for something which is a nice thing to do 人们常说感恩是最高尚的美德
again, sister called the gratitude is the highest of virtues 感激是一件很好的事
It's a nice thing to be grateful 第二种意思也同样重要
The second meaning is no less important 意思是增值
Appreciate means to grow 当我们感激生活中好的方面
And when we appreciate the good in our lives 感激人际关系中好的方面
when we appreciate the good in our relationship 感激我们的伴侣
when we appreciate our partner 朋友 同学
our friends, our classmates 感激我们的国家
when we appreciate our country 这些好处就会增值
the good grows 不幸的是相反的事也会发生
Unfortunately the opposite is also the case 但我们不予以感恩时
When we don't appreciate 好的方面就会贬值
the good depreciates 世上没有完美的人际关系
There is no perfect relationship 没有完美的人 没有完美的国家
no perfect person, no perfect country 最重要的是要关注什么是有效的
The important thing though is to focus on what is working 感激它 它才能增值
Appreciate it so that it appreciates 很多人疑惑自己为什么总是不快乐
So many people wonder why they are not happy 即使他们已经得到了想得到的一切
even though they have all the things that they want in their lives 为什么 因为好东西太多有时也不是好事
Why? Because there can be too much of a good thing 还记得我最喜欢的歌吗
Remember my favorite piece of music? Whitney Houston的《我将永远爱你》
Whitney Houston - And I Will Always Love You 10分满分
Straight 10 第二喜欢的 贝多芬第九交响乐 9.5分
Second favorite: Beethoven's 9th, 9.5 在一起播放 就是噪音
Play together - play together: noise 不是19.5分 10分或5分
Not 19.5, not 10, not 5 只是噪音
Noise 好东西太多也不是好事
There can be too much of a good thing 要将一切简化说起来容易 做起来难
Easier said than done to simplify 但记住我们说过比物质充裕
But remember that a much better predictor 更能带来幸福的是时间充裕
of well being than material affluence is time affluence 简化 果断坚决
Simplify. Assert yourself 在适当的时候学会说"不"
Say no at times when it's appropriate 弄清楚你究竟
Find out what you really, really 真正想做的东西 然后去做
really want to do with your life and do it 最能预示幸福的是 人际关系
The No.1 predictor of well being - relationships 是最能预示幸福的
The No.1 predictor of well being 你现在和未来所经营的一段
an intimate relationship that you cultivate now and in the future 亲密关系比世界任何事都重要
matters more than anything else in the world 对甚至比问问题更重要
Yes, even more than a problem set 比考试更重要
even more than an exam 比我们有多成功 多被人景仰
even more than how wildly successful we are 更重要得多
and how admired we are 对 成功会使我们的幸福感陡升
Yeah, that will lead to a spike in our well being 而很快又降到基础水平
very quickly will go back to base level 就像获得长期聘用的大学教授
just like the tenure professors went back to the base level 就像彩票中了大奖的人
Just like the lottery winners 那些以为自己
And the highly successful individuals 非常成功的人
who thought they had made it 很快会回到基准水平甚至更低
and went to the base level and below 因为他们不知道什么会让他们更快乐
because they didn't know what would make them happier 这就是一种
Well, this is what can 其中一种让我们更快乐的方法
one of the things that can make us happier 经营一段感情就意味着为之投入
And to cultivate relationship means to invest in them 向其中投入时间
to put time into them 彼此分享和交流
To share, to open up 就像我们会投入
Just like we would invest 如果我们找到理想的工作
if we found our ideal job, ideal workplace 我们会将自己投入其中
we would start to invest then 人际关系也是一样
Same with relationship 电影总是在结尾时爱情才开始
Remember movies end where love begins 在大屏幕暗下来后继续经营感情
It's about cultivating the relationship after the screen comes down 在日落之后 此时我们的投入
after the sunset - that's where the investment 我们的投入才有了回报
that's where the return of investment comes 思想带给我们的前进是有限的
Our mind can only take us only so far 我很了解积极心理学
You know I know positive psychology pretty well 我实践了所有我教的知识
I apply everything that I talk about here 然而我真的觉得如果
However, I really think that if I was not 我不知道精神肉体联系
cognizant of the body mind connection 并将精神肉体联系应用于我的生活
and applying the body mind connection to my life 我一定没有今天这么快乐
I would be far less happy than I am today 为什么 因为我会屈服于上帝决定的基准水平
Why? Because I would be compromising on my base level God's given 基因决定的基准幸福水平
gene's given level of well being 因为当我们不锻炼时
Because when we don't  exercise 就像打了镇静剂
it's like taking a depressant 我们必须和本性抗争
And we have to fight our nature 和本性抗争是很难的
And it's very hard to fight our nature 提升我们幸福的水平是很难的
It's very difficult to enhance our levels of well being 而同时要和本性抗争则是难以想象的困难
as is to have to also fight against nature is incredibly difficult 还记得灵药吗
So remember the wonder drug 每周锻炼四次 每次半小时
Exercise at least four times a week for 30 minutes 如果可以 如果你有兴趣
If you can, if you are interested 去做做瑜伽或冥想
do some formal yoga or mindful meditation 打坐冥想
sitting meditation 如果不行 那么至少
If not, at the very least 每天深呼吸几次
breathe -breathe deeply a few times a day 三次深呼吸就有显著效果
Three deep breaths can make a big difference 现在就可以试试
Now is not a bad time to do it 睡眠 可能的话八小时或接近八小时
Sleep - when possible 8 hours or somewhere around 8 hours a night of sleep 以及触摸
And touch 抱 拥抱 这个总被忽视的感官却非常重要
Hug, embrace - an underused sense is so important 被了解而非被证明
Be known rather than be validated 我们所有人都需要被证明
And again, all of us have the need to be validated 并不是说要完全去除我们依赖别人的自尊
It's not about getting rid of our dependent self esteem 但更首要的是被了解 去表达
but it is very much about first and foremost being known expressing 而非给他人留下印象
rather than impressing 人生会变得更轻松 更简单
Life becomes so much lighter, so much easier 更让人兴奋
so much more exciting 如果我们能表达自我
when we are about expressing ourselves 被了解而非被证明
Being known rather than being validated 无论是和我们的伴侣
whether it's with our romantic partner 家人 朋友 同事 同学
our family, our friends, our colleagues, our class 这都是在长期人际关系中
the foundation of the growth of intimacy 亲密和激情增加的基础
and passion in long term relationships 说起来容易做起来难
Easier said than done 这非常重要
It's so important 我想列出前十
Now I tried to have top 10 但我做不到 有一个不得不提
but I couldn't. I had to have one more 所以你们要谅解
so you'll have to excuse me 最后一点 能将所有东西整合在一起的一点
The last one and the one that brings together all the others 就是关于转变的内容
on so many levels is the one about change 终于讲到了 你们一整个学期就等着它呢
Finally. You've been waiting the entire semester just for this - well 希望不会辜负你们的期待
was worth the wait I hope 有两种... 事实上有很多种类型
There are two types - I mean there are many types 但有两种类型的学生
but there are also two types of graduates 上过这门课或其他
from 1504 or any other class or workshop 关于获得更高层次的幸福的课
that is about attaining higher levels of happiness 一种是会感觉很愉快
One that at best enjoys a temperate high 或美好的回忆 然后回到基准水平
Or nice memory and goes back down to base level 第二种同样感觉很愉快
And the second that enjoys maybe the same temperate high 虽然不可能持续整个人生
which cannot last our entire lives 但仍然在未来持续增长
but still enjoy continuous growth throughout their lives 其区别 最基本的区别就在于
And the difference, the primary difference 你是否发生了行为转变
is whether or not you introduce behavioral changes 还记得Peter Drucker说过
Remember Peter Drucker - what he said 每当人们去参加他的周末研讨班
whenever people came to him for a weekend - seminar intensive 他周一时都会说
he said on Monday "别打电话跟我说这课有多棒
＂Don't call me to tell me how wonderful it was 而是告诉我你开始变得不一样了"
Call me and tell me what you are doing differently.＂ 在他和世界上最成功 最出色
Because in his 65 years of experience working with the most successful 最聪明的人
the most inspiring 一起合作的六十五年间
the best and the brightest people in the world 他发现这才是能让人
what he's found that this is what extinguishes real 一直保持愉悦平和的原因
lasting change from a temperate high 不要告诉我这课有多棒
Don't tell me how wonderful it was 告诉我你周一做了什么改变
Tell me what you are doing differently on Monday 从现在开始进行行为转变
Introduce behavioral changes now 这就是改变的核心
This is the core of change 你们在这门课上学到的只是开始
What you learned in this class hopefully is only the beginning 仅仅是开始
only the beginning 回忆下在Carlton的研究中
because remember once again Carlton's study 成功的人 最快乐的人
The people who succeed, the most who are the happiest 就最成功地实现了终极目标
succeed the most in the ultimate currency 从长远来看 他一生都在学习
in a long term ones who are lifelong learners 永远在问问题 永远探索
always asking questions, always finding out more 有很多人都有很好的意图
But there are many people with good intentions 很多人都有很好的意图
many people with good intentions 但很好的意图还不够
but good intentions are not enough 我们需要的还有基础
What we also need is the foundation 实用的 严格的
the empirical, rigorous 科学的基础来起作用
scientific foundation of things that work 当我们了解这些东西后
And when we know these things 再将它们传递出去
then we pay them forward 和他人分享
then we share them 在很多人文及社会的学科中 包括心理学
In psychology among other social sciences and sciences in humanities "你在哈佛收获了什么 得到了什么"
"What you got here at Harvard? What are you getting here at Harvard?" 就是这样一种基础
is that foundation that can 来使世界变得更美好
that can make the world a better place 我教这门课不仅因为觉得它有趣
I don't teach this class only because it is fun for me 它确实很有趣 我觉得很愉快
it is fun; yes, it is very pleasurable to me 我说过我总是等不及到周二和周四
I told you I can't wait for Tuesdays and Thursdays 来和你们分享我最关心的东西
to share what I care about the most with you 是很有趣
Yes it's fun 但我教这门课不仅仅因为这个
But I don't do it just because of that 更因为我认为一些伟大心理学家的想法
I do it because I think the ideas of  some of the greatest psychologists 我引用过 也讨论过的
that I have quoted and cited and discussed 他们的想法能使世界变得更好
their ideas can change the world for the better 1954年时Maslow写道
Maslow back in 1954 wrote: "我不仅是对纯粹的冷漠真理
＂I am not only the disinterested and impersonal seeker 公正客观的探索者
for pure cold truth for its own sake 我也很有兴趣关注人类的命运
I am also very definitely interested and concerned with man's fate 其结局 目标以及未来
with his ends and goals and with his future 我想帮助人类进步 改善其前景
I would like to help improve him and better his prospects 我希望教会他如何友爱他人
I hope to help teach him how to be brotherly 和平互助 勇敢坚毅 正直公平
cooperative, peaceful, courageous 我认为科学是达到这个目标最大的希望
and just, I think science is the best hope for achieving this 而在所有学科中
and of all the sciences 我认为心理学是最有潜力的
I consider psychology most important to this end 事实上我有时觉得
Indeed, I sometimes think 世界要么被广义的
that the world will either be saved by psychologists 心理学家拯救
in the very broadest sense 要么就无法被拯救"
or else it will not be saved at all.＂ 广义的心理学家
In the broadest sense of psychologists 这并不意味着
It doesn't mean that 你现在就应该去读个心理学的博士
you now have to go on and get a PHD in psychology 或潜心研究心理学
or to concentrate in psychology 而是要时刻意识到
But it means to be constant cognizant 了解你大脑中发生的一切
to be self aware of what is going on in here 这宇宙中最令人惊异的实体
the most wondrous and amazing entity in the universe 了解它发生的一切
to understand what's going on here 周围环境以及你的心
and there, and here 它们是如何联系在一起的
and how they are connected 并作为现实理想主义者来分享它
and to share it by being practical idealists 你们可以有影响
And you can make a difference 你们可以有影响
You can make a difference 每个人都有不可思议的力量
Because the one has incredible power 还记得吗 如果你让三个人微笑
Remember if you make three people smile 他们会让另外三个人微笑
and they make three other people smile 如此20次后 就能传到地球上每一个人
After 20 interations you'll touch every single human being on the planet 快乐是会传染的
Happiness is contagious 我再展示最后一段关于幸福快乐如何传染的录像
Let me show you one last video of how happiness and joy is contagious 爸爸要惹你们笑了 准备好了吗
Dad is going to make you laugh now. Ready? 他们会在怎样的世界中成长取决于你
What kind of world that they will grow into depends on you 取决于你是否首先
And it depends on whether or not you first and foremost 关注了自身
take care of yourself 引用甘地的话
In the words of Gandhi "欲变世界 先变其身"
＂Be the change you want to see in the world＂ 如果想要更快乐的世界 你自己先快乐起来
If you want a happier world, be that change 所有你们去的地方
All the places you will go 我想提醒你们
I would like to remind you 每次你们去一个地方 通常情况下
that every time you go to a place and very often 你都会坐飞机去 这样你每次去时
you will fly to a place that every time you go 都会听到一些会引起你反思
you will hear something that hopefully will trigger 照顾自己有多重要的东西
hopefully will remind you how important it is to take care of yourself 要照顾别人
because to take care of others 你首先要照顾自己
you first and foremost need to take care of yourself 当你坐飞机时
You know when you fly 乘务员会说
and the flight attendant says 以防紧急情况 氧气面罩会脱落
in case of any emergency and the oxygen mask comes down 首先自己戴上 在去帮助需要帮忙的人
first help yourself before you help others who need your help 因为这就是
Because that is the source 黄金法则的基础
the foundation of the golden rule 是更美好的世界的基础
It is the foundation of a better world 终极目标
The ultimate currency 每次你去某个美丽的地方
So each time you go to one of those wonderful places 国外或国内
exotic or otherwise 记住要简化问题
remember to simplify 记住照顾自己
remember to take care of yourself 记住要锻炼
remember to exercise 记住要果断坚决 在适当的时候说"不"
remember to assert yourself and say no when appropriate 记住要经营你的感情
Remember to cultivate your relationships 记住你生命中什么才是
Remember what it is that is really 真正最最重要的东西
really important for you in your life 这个经历
This experience 这个学期对我来说非常特别
this semester for me has been extraordinary 它之所以这么特别首先是因为这些
And it was made extraordinary first by the amazing teaching staff 出色的教职员工
that we have 上台来吧
Won't you come up? 就几分钟 不用太长
Just a few minutes. A few minutes. Not more. OK? 你们不知道这幕后有多少工作
You have no idea what kind of work was going on behind the scenes 你们不知道
You have no idea how much 这每一个教职员工
how much each and every one of the teaching staff 主管助教Shawn和Debb 以及其他助教
the head TFs, Shawn and Debb and every one of the others 他们投入了多少时间来经营和你们的关系
How much they put into cultivating that relationship with you 他们花了多少小时
how many hours they spent 耗费了多少苦心和思考
how much, how many mindful and heartful moments they spent 我想感谢他们 也希望你们能感激
So I would like to thank them, and I would like you to thank them 他们的存在和
for their presence 所做的工作
for who they are 谢谢你们 来吧 上来
So thank you. Come up. Come up 做这些很麻烦
there are many of those to be made 但我想对我们的助教一些小小的表示
But I'd like to give our TFs a little token of appreciation 来庆祝你们的辛勤付出
The way to celebrate your hard work? 你想说些什么吗
Do you want to say something? 轮到你了
It's your turn 轮到我了 谢谢
My turn.Thank you 快 快 快
Quick, quick, quick. OK 其实我只想说感谢所有的助教
So I actually just want to say thank you to all of our TFs 辛勤的付出
for their great work 感谢到场的所有同学 以及进修的同学
Thank you to all the students here, the extension students 最重要的是
Most importantly 我想感谢我的妈...不 我要感谢Tal
I'd like to thank my mo... No! I'd like to thank Tal 首先我要感谢Tal的祖父母
So firstly I want to thank Tal's grandparents for surviving 生下了他的父母
for his parents for thriving 然后生下了... 是吧
for you know what, yeah? 你们懂的
for you know what 我想感谢Tammy让Tal总是面带微笑
And I'd like to thank Tammy for putting a smile on Tal's face 以及Sherill和David将他和我们大家分享
and Sherill and David for sharing him with us 感谢给了我们接触人性本质的机会
And for the opportunity for all of us to be a little more human 让我们更人性化 谢谢
because we are humanless. So thank you 要感激你的不仅仅只有我们
We are not the only one who are in tons of grateful to you 你这学期感动了在场这么多人 其实一直都是
You've touched so many people here this semester and always 但这学期你的学生都写了感谢信
But your students this semester all sent in thank you notes 我们将它们集合成册送给你
and we've compiled them and bounded them for you 不管去哪你都可以将它带着
For all the places you go to, take it with you 谢谢
thank you 这是感恩书的第一部
That is volume 1 of the gratitude book 以后还有更多的信
More letters are coming in 你可以不断增加
So you can still send them 最后的最后
And finally it wouldn't be... 我们想给你一个表彰来记住这堂课
We want a token for you to always remember this class 以及这次伟大的机会
and this great opportunity 希望你以后每次上这门课时
something that you would hope to use 都会用到的东西
every time you teach this class in the future 不要有压力
I mean no pressure 因为你是首席 所以这顶帽子
Because you are king leader, and this hat... 谢谢 谢谢
Thank you. Thank you 太感谢了 谢谢
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you 还有一件事
Just one more thing 最后一件事
One more, one more 谢谢 非常感谢
Thank you. Thank you so much 还有两点要说的
Just want to say two more things 我知道已经拖堂了
I know we are over time 十分抱歉 再占用一点时间
I'm really sorr.. Well one minute 我还想感谢一些人
I want to thank just a few other people 我想感谢坐在后面的Barry Reid
I would like to thank Barry Reid sitting at the back 以及出色的摄制组
And the wonderful crew 这些摄制人员将课堂带回你们家
the wonderful crew who are bringing this class to your home 带到你们的电脑上
to your computers 最后
And finally 我想感谢在座各位
I would like to thank you 你们每一个人都是一整个世界
Each and every one of you is an entire world 这个世界正在
a world in the making 正在使你我所处的这个世界
in the making of this world - your world 变得愈发美好
our world a better place 谢谢
So thank you 保重
And take care 保重
Take a good care 谢谢
Thank you 
