


 Chapter 0: 什么是积极心理学？


Hi Good morning. It's wonderful to be back here. Wonderful to see you here. I'm teaching this class because I wish a class like this had been taught when I was sitting in your seat as an undergrad here. This does not mean it is a class you wish to be taught, nor does it mean that it is the right class for you. But I hope to doing the next couple of lectures is giving you an idea what this class is about so that you can decide whether or not it is for you. I came here in 1992 And then I had a mini epiphany half way through my sophomore year. I realized that I was in a wonderful place with wonderful students around me, wonderful teachers. I was doing well academically. I was doing well in athletics. i was playing varsity squash at the time. I was doing well socially. Everything was going well. Except for the fact. That I was unhappy. And I didn't understand why. It was then in a matter of moments, that I decided that I had to find out why and become happier. And that was when I switched my concentration from computer science to philosophy and psychology with a single question: how can I become happier? Over time I did become happier. What contributed most to my happiness was when I encountered a new emerging field that at that time didn't have the name that it has today. But essentially research that falls under or within the field of positive psychology. Positive psychology, studying it, applying the ideas to my life has made me significantly happier. It continues to make me happier. And it was when I realized the impact that it had on me that I decided to share it with others. That's when I decided that I wanted to be a teacher and teach in this field. So this is positive psychology, psychology 1504. And we'll be exploring this new, relatively new and fascinating field. And hopefully, we will be exploring more than the field ourselves. When I first taught this class that was back in 2002, I taught it at a seminar and had eight students. Two dropped out. That left me with six. The year after, the class became slightly larger. I had over three hundred students. And then third year when I taught it which was the last time, I had 850 students in the class, making it at that point the largest course at Harvard. And that's when the media became interested. Because they wanted to understand why. They wanted to understand this phenomenon that "here you have a class, that's larger than Introduction to Economics". How could that be? So I was invited by the media for interviews, whether it was newspapers, radio, television. And I started to notice a pattern during those interviews. So I would walk into the interview. We would have the interview. And afterwards, the producer or the interviewer would walk me out and say something to the effects of "well thank you Tal for the interview. But you know I expected you to be different". And I would ask, as nonchalant as I could of course. I didn't really care but had to ask anyway, "how different?" And they would say, "Well you know, we expected you to be more outgoing." Next interview, the end of the interview, same thing. "Thank you for doing the interview. But you know Tal, I expected you to be different." And once again, nonchalant of course. would ask"how different?" And she would say, "Well you know, we expected you to be less, less itrovert." Next interview, same thing. "How different?" "Well, you know, more extroverted. More outgoing." Next interview. "Well, you know, less shy." Coz I get very nervous in interviews. Interview after interview, literally dozens. More outgoing, more cheerful. Less introverted, more extroverted. And on and on. But here is the best one. So this is one of the local channels here around Boston. I was going to the interview. We had a quite long interview, which I thought was actually pretty good. And at the end of the interview, the interviewer is a very jolly guy. He walks me out and puts his hands on my shoulder, and says, "thank you very much for doing the interview." And then the usual comes. "But you know Tal, I expected you to be different." And I said, "How different?" Just so you understand, by this time, my self-esteem is short. But still with some resemblance of nonchalance I asked, "how different?" And he looks at me and says, "Well I don't know Tal. I expected you to be taller." Taller? What? Five seven, well ok five six and a half is not enough to teach happiness? And I thought about it. I thought about it a lot. The whole pattern from the beginning. And I think I understand why they expected someone different. You see they had to explain to themselves as well as the audience, "how come this lecture is larger than the Introduction to Economics?" And the way to explain it must be that the teacher is very outgoing, extremely charismatic, very cheerful and extrovert and of course, tall. Well, there is one L missing there. But... Yeah. If only. So the problem though is that they were looking in the wrong place for the explanation. In other words, they were looking at the messenger. What they needed to look at was the message. Now how do I know that? You see because I see other positive psychology classes on other campuses around the country and around the world. There are over 200 hundred campuses here in United States that teach positive psychology. On almost every campus where this class is taught, it's either one of the or the largest class. It's about the message. I see more and more organizations taking up positive psychology in their, as consultant companies, some of them the leading big consultant companies are taking it on. More and more high schools are introducing positive psychology class. Elementary schools are introducing it. The governments around the world are expressing interest in this new emerging field. Why? Because it works. Because it really works. You see this whole realm on life flourishing, on happiness, on well-being has been until recently dominated by the self-health movement. What do we have in the self-health movement? We have books that are very interesting, that are very accessible. We have speakers who are very outgoing, very charismatic and tall, attracting the masses into these workshops, seminars and lectures. But, there is a very big "but" here. Many of these books, many of these workshops and seminars lack substance. Very often, overpromising and under-delivering. So these are five things you need to know to be happy. The three things to be the great leader. The one secret of success, happiness and a perfect love life. Overpromising. Under-delivering. On the other hand, we have academia. What do we have in academia? We have a lot of rigor, a lot of substance. We have datas analyzed, reanalyzed and meta-analyzed. Things that actually work, good stuff. But, and there is also a very big "but" here. Very few people read refereed academic journals. I mean Think about it: how many people outside this room of course have read the last twelve issues of the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology? Most people don't even know what that means. The head of my PHD programs actually estimated the average academic journal article is read by seven people. You know... And that includes the author's mother. So you know I say half in jest but it's actually really sad. Because...certainly sad for me, as an academic. Because these things are good. They are important. These things make a difference, can even make more of a difference. But not accessible to most people. And this is where positive psychology comes in. And this is also where this class comes in. The explicit mandate of positive psychology as well as of this class is to create a bridge between Ivory tower and mainstreet. In other words, it is to bring the rigor, the substance, the empirical foundation, the science from academia and merge it with accessibility of the self-help or New Age movement. In a way the best of both worlds. And this explains the popularity of the field of positive psychology: science that works. This class will be taught on two levels. The first level it will be taught as any other class in psychology or any of the classes you've taken here. You'll be introduced here to studies, to research, to rigorous academic work. You'll be writing paper, academic paper. You'll be taking exams. Just like every other class. But then it will also be taught at the second level, which is for every paper that you'll read, every paper that you'll write, you'll always be thinking, "Ok, how can I take these ideas and apply them to my life? How can I apply them to my relationship? How can I apply them to my community?" Two levels. The academic. Applied. I did not just introduce whether it's in the readings or in the lectures ideas just because they are interesting for the sake of the idea. It is always an idea that is both rigorous and can be applied. Just a few words about housekeeping. Some of the questions that I have already received from you before the class started. So this, unfortunately, is the last time that I am teaching positive psychology or any other class for that matter at Harvard. Hopefully within two years, probably not next year, but within two years, there will be positive psychology class offered, but I certainly cannot guarantee it. About feedback and questions. If you have any questions, anything that's not clear, if you agree or disagree with something, email me or email your TF (Teaching Fellow at Harvard, just like TA at other schools) and we'll always respond. Sometimes if the question is asked by enough people, we'll respond to it publicly. Always anonymously. Unless you specified specifically that your name can be mentioned. Sometimes you may be listening to a lecture and then half way through it there is an emergency. There is something that you really have to ask, something that cannot wait. In that case, please just put your hand up. Coz it's just like when you have to go to the bathroom. Just can't stop. Can't wait. And when you gotta go, you gotta go. So we'll take a positive psychology break for that. And just stop me half way through and I'll answer any question. All the power points, as well as the videos of the classes will be online. Will be available within couple of days. Well the power points will be available before, say for this lecture it will be before so that you can use them in class. The videos, unfortunately, cannot be made available before. We tried. Couldn't figure it out. So it will be available within a day or two after. And the reason why they are up there. First of all, I do prefer that you attend lecture. I do prefer that you are physically here. You get things in the energy of the room with so many students so you wouldn't just get from your computer. The reason why I do put them up is so that you have the opportunity if you want to see it again or if you have to miss a class. That's perfectly fine. And also because, and this is also the reason why the power points are always available, I want you to be engaged in the material. I want you to be engaged in whatever it is that we are discussing in class. Not necessarily thinking about getting down every word that I say on paper, remembering everything, memorizing everything. I want you to take rather than passive notes of writing down what is on the power point or every word that I say. I'd like you to take active notes. And that means being engaged with the material. For example, if you heard something and idea and you say, "Oh, that's interesting." Star it. Write it down. Or "Ok I think I'll start applying this." Write it down. "Or I want to tell my mom about this later." Or "I want to talk to my roommates or my team about this idea." Write it down. Active note-taking is opposed to passive note-taking for two reasons. First of all, as I said, this class is a class about making a difference in people's lives. I would not be teaching the class just for its academic beauty, although there is a lot of academic beauty in this field. So write down if you have an idea that you think you can apply. The second reason why we should that is because you'll remember more. Better attention, better understanding of the material if you are actively engaged, as opposed to just taking down passive notes. Throughout the class, starting next week, we'll take what I called, "time-ins" as opposed to "time-outs". it's like a time-out. It's the time where we stop the class and you look inward. And this is literally a time of silence in a class. I will stop for a minute or two. And you'll have a chance either to just stare at me or anyone else, or think about what we've just discussed, or have a guiding question that I will provide you that you'll address during the class. The reason why I have "Time-ins"... This is something that I am introducing this year for the first time. We didn't have it last time. It's because over the last two years since I last taught it, I've done a lot work in the area of silence. I've read a lot of research in this area about the importance of quiet times whether it's in a class, in a lecture, whether it is at home, whether it is for a leader in the business, for relationship, for children starting from pre-schools. Now many of you, as you are going through these "time-ins" if you decide to take this class may think, "Well, is this what I'm paying 40,000 dollars a year for? To sit a class and be quiet?" First of all, it will only be a minute or two at a time, maybe once or twice a lecture. But second, it is maybe the most important thing you'll take from this class. The notion of embracing stillness. Let me read to you an excerpt from a study that was run by two MIT professors. By the way, all the names that I read and that are not on the power points, you don't need to remember or write down. This is just for your edification. So David Foster and Matthew Wilson. Both of them are from MIT. Indeed the following study that I think confirms the importance of "time-in", time to look inside. What they did is they scanned the brains of rats while they were in a maze and after they went through the maze. And here's what they found. "What the results suggest is that while there certainly is some record of your experience as it is occurring. in other words when they were doing the maze, the actual learning – when you try to figure out: 'What was important? What should I keep and throw away?' – that happens after the fact, during periods of quiet wakeful introspection. What they show was rats who went through the maze and went through the maze again and again, learned far less than rats who took time aside, chilled out a little bit after a maze, had more margarita. Experience, embrace stillness. This has implications and they showed implications to human beings as well. Not only those of the rat race, all human beings. So what they say is that "replay might constitute a general mechanism of learning and memory". Both learning, understanding, as well as memory, retention. When we reflect, when we replay the material, we are much more likely to retain, to remember what we have just been through. So the importance of time aside cannot be over-emphasized. In his wonderful book of teaching, Parker Palmer-- it's called The Courage to Teach, says the following-- Words are not the sole medium of exchange in teaching and learning. We educate with silence as well. Silence gives us a chance to reflect on what we have said and heard. In authentic education, silence is treated as a trustworthy matrix for the inner work students must do, a medium for learning of the deepest sort." Silence is something that is missing from our culture. I know that many of you have probably read Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, Robert M. Pirsig. He had a second book out, less well-known, called Lila (Lila: an Inquiry into Morals). And Lila is an anthropological study of Native Americans. What he does there is compare their culture to Americans' from European ancestry. And one of the distinguishing characteristics between these two cultures is their approach were silence. What he found was when he went and sat around with Native Americans. They would sit around the fire and hang out for two, three hours without saying a word. Just sit around. Look at one another. Smile. Have a good time. Introspect. Just be there for hours. While he points out that in our culture we feel very uncomfortable with the absence of words, with the absence of sound or noise. We have to fill up all the gaps. This is an important cultural difference. And we pay a price for this lack of stillness. A price that we'll talk about a lot, when I talk about relationships, when I talk about virtue and morality and when we talk about happiness and wellbeing in general. Let me give a little bit background on positive psychology: how we came about and how this class came about. In many ways, positive psychology is the brainchild, the product and the grandchild of humanistic psychology. What we have in humanistic psychology is essentially a reaction to the existing psychologies of the time. The founders, considered the founders of humanistic psychology in fact called it "the third force". Why the "third force"? Because the first force was behaviorism. The work of Skinner (B. F. Skinner), the work of Watson (John B. Watson), the work of Thorndik (Edward Thorndik). This was the first force. The second force was psychoanalysis. The work of Freud (Sigmund Freud), Jung (Carl Jung), Adler (Alfred Adler) to some extent. This was the second force. And the third force, humanistic psychology came as a reaction to it. First it is a reaction to behaviorism. Behaviorism looks at the human entity, at the person as basically a collection of behaviors as a box, like a billiard ball knocked around by reinforcements, by punishment, by reward. And what humanistic psychology said was that we are much more than a billiard ball being knocked around. We have spirit. We have a soul. We have cognitions and thoughts that matter. It's not just behavior that is important for understanding as well as improving life. And then psychoanalysis, the second force. The psychoanalysis is about basically understanding mostly through the subconscious: that's how you understand it; that's how you improve the quality of life. There are defense mechanisms, there are biological instincts, neurosis-- and if you understand these very often dark forces, were better able to deal with life: understand as well as improve the quality of life. Humanistic psychology says human beings are much more than that. Much more than biological instincts, much more than neurosis, much more than the person who exists in a Newtonian reality like a billiard ball. We need to value much more the human being. We need to give much more dignity and freedom to the person. There was a problem. The problem was humanistic psychology is said lacked the rigorous methodology. While it brought in many wonderful ideas, talked about the study of well-being, talked about the study of optimism, of kindness, of morality, of virtue, of love, of relationships, of peak experiences, of self-actualization, of empathy. All these wonderful concepts that we'll talk about throughout the semester. It wasn't as rigorous about its epistemology, about how we form ideas and how we learn. And that's why, in many ways, largely, not completely but largely more of into the self-health movement. Interesting ideas, good ideas, important ideas, certainly good intentions, but to some extent, without the academic rigor. And that's why it lacked the impact on academia. That's why we don't have partly any humanistic psychology classes offered in universities today. There are very few still around. And this is why also a lot of it became the New Age essentially. But still, it's humanistic psychology that has in many ways fathered and mothered, as we'll see, positive psychology. So let's meet the grandparents. People like Rollo May. People like Carl Rogers. And more than anyone, Abraham Maslow. Was the American Psychological Association President. Was the professor just down the road here at Brandeis (Brandeis University). And he introduced this humanistic psychology in 1954. He wrote a chapter, called "Toward the Positive Psychology". 1954. In it he said we need to also research kindness, goodness and happiness and optimism. In many ways it was way ahead of his time. Then if Maslow is the grandfather, then Karen Horney is the grandmother. Initially a psychoanalyst, trained through the works of Freud, she realized the focuses had been too much on the negative-- on neurosis, on psychosis and said we also, not only but also have to focus on what is working on human organism. We have to work and look at the fine qualities and cultivate those. Because part of being human is being those things as well. In many ways, brought about the movement toward humanistic psychology and through that-- positive psychology. Aaron Antonovsky, the third person I would consider the grandfather, brought in the idea of focusing on health. He has a new concept. Or he introduced a new concept. I'm still here. Don't worry. He introduced a new concept, which he called-- his own neologism, "salutogenesis". Salutogenesis: saluto--(which is) health; geneis (which is) origin. The origin of health. And this was an alternative model, to the conventional ways model of pathologies. So instead of just studying pathologies whether it's in physical health or psychological health, we should also study the origin of health. In many ways that is what prevented medicine is about. So this was a novel idea back in 1970s when he introduced it. And we'll talk a lot about Aaron Antonovsky. Now the parents. Martin Seligman, considered the father of the positive psychology, network of scholars, started the field in 1998. Like Maslow, he too, was the President of American Psychological Association. And as his mandate, during his presidency, he had two aims: the first aim-- to make academic psychology more accessible, -- in other words-- bridge Ivory tower and mainstream. This was the first aim of his presidency. The second aim was introduce a positive psychology. A psychology that will look at also things that work, that were not just study-- depression, anxiety, schizophrenia and neurosis. A psychology a network of scholars who will focus on -- love, relationships, self-esteem, motivation, resilience and well-being. And he introduced these ideas and it's all been literally uphill from then. Before Martin Seligman, this all happened in 1998 and we'll talk about it a little bit more next time. This all  happened in 1998. Long before 1998, our very own professor Ellen Langer did research in all these areas, bringing the humanistic spirit and combining it with the academic scientific rigor. We'll be talking probably more than any other scholar about her work in this class. And another person from Harvard, one of the parents of positive psychology was Philip Stone, who passed away two years ago, yesterday. Both Langer and Stone were my physicist advisors, introduced me to the field of positive psychology into this research. In 1998 when I had the first positive psychology summit, Professor Stone took me along with him. I was a graduate student. In 1999 he taught the first positive psychology class at Harvard, one of the first in the world. I was his teaching fellow. A couple of years later, he taught it again. Again I was his teaching fellow. And then when I graduated, he suggested I take over his class. And here we are today. So this is 1504. Let me give you a sense of, in the next half an hour and so, a sense of what you expect in this class. The first thing is this class is not just about information, it is also explicitly about transformation. What do I mean by that? You see most of education today is about information. What is information? So we have a container, which is our mind. And information is about taking data, taking science, taking information and putting it inside the form. That is information. Now when this form is filled, that's when we are educated. More information, more data, better. Not enough. Because it's not just information that determines our wellbeing, our success, our self-esteem, our motivational level, the relationship and the quality of our relationships. It's much more than information. Transformation is about taking this form and changing it. Trans, (which is) change, form, (which is) shape. Change the form. This is transformation. This is the distinction that I learned first from at the school Professor Robert Kegan who taught about this. Information in and of itself is not enough. Think about this example. You go for an athletic meet. Your aim is to get into the top three-- to be a medalist. You come in number eight. What's the analysis? What's the interpretation? -- Terrible. I just failed. You feel deflated. Enervated. On the other hand, the exact same event. You came eight when you expected to be top three. You can interpret it as "Ok, so what have I learned? I need to work even harder." You become more energized. You learned from the experience. In other words, the same objective information which is "I got eighth; I expected top three". The same information, very different interpretation. One is a disaster, the other interpretation is an opportunity. One leads to loss of energy, the other one to increasing energy. Or think about another very common example. We know of many people around the world who seemingly have everything, who are doing well, who have more than they need. And yet they are unhappy. And then there are people around the world who have very little. And yet they never cease, never stop to celebrate life. And we have another way around as well. People who have everything and appreciate it and enjoy life. People who have very little and who see themselves as victim. In other words, it's not just the information that goes in. It's also the shape, the interpretation, the perception, the focus. And that is determined by the shape of the form. This is what I realized when I was an undergrad here. Seemingly, looking in from the outside, I had everything. Doing well (in) sports, academics and socially. And yet my perception, my focus, my interpretation of life-- not that great. I wasn't happy. The interpretation matters very often a lot more as we'll see than the information that goes in. One of the sentences that I'll repeat throughout the class is that happiness is much more contingent on our state of mind than our status or the state of our bank account. And that's where transformation comes in. And that's why it's so important for wellbeing. What that will look like in practice is that we'll cover not so much information. We'll uncover much more and I don't mean that in the Berkeley (George Berkeley) sense of the word. I mean that in the academic sense of the word. In other words, what we'll do is uncover potential that we have inside, that we have inside of us all along. Maybe we just didn't see. Or maybe it's obscured by something or another. We'll uncover it so that we can utilize it, so that we can focus on it, so that we can perceive it. Here is a story just to illustrate it. So this is Michelangelo. One day he was asked by a journalist of his time, "how did you create this most amazing masterpiece, David?", to which Michelangelo responded, "it was easy. I went to the quarry. I saw this huge piece of marble. And in it I saw David. All I needed to do was to chip away the excess stone, to get rid of the marble that shouldn't have been there. And when I got rid of this excess stone, there was David. " Not obviously easier said than done. But the story captured the metaphor of what this class very much is about. It's about chipping away the excess stone. It's about getting rid of limitations, of barriers, whether it's the fear of failure, something that we didn't have as kids. But today most people in our culture have it. It's about chipping away perfectionism that is debilitating and often hurts us. It's about chipping away our ability for success, because maybe we are afraid of success. Maybe we feel guilty about some of the things that we have in our life, and that in turn limits us. Maybe it's about chipping away the limitations on our relationships in while we don't thrive within them. This is what this class is mostly about. As Thoreau says, "soul grows more by subtraction than by addition", by getting rid of these limitations, limitations that are preventing us from fulfilling our potential. Because our potential is in there in nature. We talk a lot about human nature. It's there whether it's through God, whether it's through evolution. We have a lot of potential that over time with we fix (?) stone of voices with being part of our culture that very often these limitations are put on top of us just like the excess stone. Lao Tzu, "In pursuit of knowledge every day something is acquired. In pursuit of wisdom, every day something is dropped." Knowledge is about information. Wisdom is about transformation. I was recently interviewed for a newsletter on coaching before a large conference on the topic. And the interviewer asked me, "So what tips, what tools can you give from positive psychology?" So I talked about some of "the greatest hits": the importance of gratitude, the importance of physical exercise. I talked about the importance of spending time on our relationships, about taking time aside and simplifying and so on and so on. As I was going through my long list, she stopped me and she said, "You know Tal, this is all good. The importance of stuff, I know. But our readers already know that. I am looking for the Wow factor. Come on, surprise me. What can you tell our readers?" And I thought about this question for a minute and I realized that there is no Wow. And I told her that, "you know if there is a wow, the wow is that there is no wow." That's it. Because the over-not-transformation emperor, the emperor of quick fixes has no clothes. It doesn't exist. it's over-promising and under-delivering. A life, a fulfilling life, a rich life includes ups and downs, includes pain and getting up again, includes failure and getting up again. It includes success and celebrating it. Victories and losses, ups and downs, as we'll talk about next week. It's not about this one secret. One Wow to the good life. And many of the things you will learn in this class, you've heard of before. Probably nothing new to you. You already know it inside of you. And you are going to say, "Well, it is common sense." And yes, a lot of it is common sense. However, it is Voltaire once said, "Common sense is not that common." And this especially applies to application. So the aim of this class is to make common sense more common, especially in the real world application. At the end of the class, here's what I am hoping for, at the end of the class, if you decide to take it. At the end of the semester, I don't think-- I am not expecting you to come and tell me, "Wow! Thank you for teaching me so many new things." That's not what I am expecting. I don't think that is what will happen. What I hope will happen is for you to come and say, rather than "thank you for teaching me", something you would say "thank you for reminding me of something that I've already known". And this is what this class is about. It's constant reminder, twice a week. Constant reminder of what you already know, of what is inside you. The David that is inside you. And what this class will hopefully do is to help you chip away some of these limitations, whether it's limitation, cognitive limitations that prevent you from seeing what you already knew, emotional limitations that are preventing you from deriving the benefits of what you already know, or behavioral limitations. The ABC: affect, behavior, and cognition that we'll talk about during the change week. So I'm making common sense more common. Information in and of itself is simply not enough. It's not enough and what we need in addition to our information highway is a transformation highway. Transformation high way, or transformation back roads, to come through the fast increasing pace. Because as we'll talk about next time, rates of depression are on the rise, rates of anxiety are on the rise, not just in this country, globally. It's literally global epidemic. And to deal with it, more information will just not do. Just not enough. Here is Archibald MacLeish. He was a poet, was a Harvard professor, "What is wrong is not the great discoveries of science-- information is always better than ignorance, no matter what information or what ignorance. What is wrong is the belief behind the information, the belief that information will change the world. It won't." Just adding it and filling up our containers with more and more stuff. More and more information, more and more data. It's just not enough. We need more than that. This class will take a humanistic approach. Let me read you a quick excerpt by Abraham Maslow who talks about this approach, "If one took a course or picked up a book on the psychology of learning, most of it, in my opinion, would be beside the point - that is, beside the 'humanistic' point. Most of it would present learning as the acquisition of associations, of skills and capacities that are external and not intrinsic to the human character, to the human personality, to the person himself." External refers to information. Internal refers to the transformation, the changing of the form. And when we talk about transformation, actually mean it quite literally-- changing of the form, changing of the brain as we'll talk about. We'll talk about meditation for instance. We know our brain today can actually change through MRI studies since 1998. A new concept came up which is Neurogenesis or Neuroplasticity, meaning our brain actually changes and transforms. It changes its form throughout our life. So I don't just mean it metaphorically, I also very often mean it literally. Abraham Maslow continues, "Humanistic philosophy offers a new conception of learning, of teaching, and of education. Stated simply, such a concept holds that the function of education, the goal of education— the human goal, the humanistic goal, the goal so far as human beings are concerned— is ultimately the "self-actualization" of a person, the becoming fully human, the development of the fullest height that the human species can stand up to or that the particular individual can come to. In a less technical way, it is helping the person to become the best that he is able to become." And this was before the Ad came up for the army. That "Be all you can be." This is what the class is about. It's the humanistic approach. It's about fulfilling our potential, chipping away those limitations. Now to many of you this may sound naive, idealistic. Naive it is not. Idealistic, it is. And we'll talk about and discuss the importance of idealism and maintaining idealism if we are to introduce personal change, inter-personal change, or community or society change. This class is not about providing answers, concerning the good life and happiness. It is about identifying the right questions. "Ask and ye shall you receive", say the Scripture. This class is what I think education is all about, which is that the quest for information and transformation must begin with the question. Quest, question, there is no coincidence that there is an etymological link between the two. In this class we'll be asking, you'll be asked many questions, questions that as you'll see, create reality. We'll talk about it already next time. The importance of the questions you ask of yourselves first and foremost, of your partner, of your students, of your parents, of your employees in the future, teammates and so on. Questions make a difference. Peter Drucker, "The most common source of mistakes in management decisions is the emphasis on finding the right answer rather than the right question." Peter Drucker, considered the most important management scholar of 20th century, just recently passed away, saying the biggest mistake is not asking the right questions. As we'll see next time, this is the biggest mistake in research potentially. This is the biggest mistake in application. Not asking the right questions as well, whether it's in managing organizations, whether it's managing our lives. Now. When I said that questions are important and answers matter less, I am not coming from a point of relativism. I'm not a relativist. I think they are ... To some questions definitive answers that are important to know. However, what I'm saying is that it's important, not less important to focus on questions when it comes to education. The educator, Neil Postman once said, "The kids enter schools as question marks and they leave as periods." My hope in this class is to bring up many more question marks than periods. Once again, it's about chipping away the excess stone because as kids, we are always asking questions. We are always curious. Let me show you a quick excerpt from a video of one of my favorite psychologists, actually the commedian, Seinfeld. Here he is talking about... We will watch a lot of excerpts throughout the semester. Talking about what we were like as kids. See is this in your way "So, the first couple of years I made my own costumes which of course sucked: the ghost, the hobo... Then, finally, the third year, begging the parents, I got the Superman Halloween costume. Not surprisingly. Cardboard box, self-made top, mask included. Remember the rubber band on the back of that mask? That was a quality item there, wasn't it? That was good for about 10 seconds before it snapped out of that cheap little staple they put it in there with. You go to your first house: "Trick or..." Snap!" It broke. I don't believe it!" "Wait up you guys! I gotta fix it! Hey wait up! Wait up!" Kids don't say "wait". They say "wait up! Hey wait up!" Coz when you are little your life is up. Your future is up. Everything you want is up. "Wait up! Hold up! Shut up! Momma, clean up! Let me stay up!" Parents of course are just the opposite. Everything is down. "Just calm down! Slow down! Calm down here! Sit down. Put that down!" So again this curiosity, this looking up, this opening up is opposed to closing down that kids have. This notion. This is what I hope will happen in this class. The one real objective of education is to leave a man in the condition of continually asking questions. So here is a longitudinal study that was done by John Carter. John Carter, professor of leadership management of the business school across the river, came to Harvard in 1972, joined the faculty and started to follow Harvard class, MBA class of 1973 and followed them through 20 years. And what he was interested in was to find all the information he could about this class. What he found 20 years later, early 90s when this study ended was these students were extremely successful, Or ex-students were extremely successful, students were extremely successful, very wealthy, having a lot of impact, whether it's on the organizations, on the community. They did extremely well. But within the large group of highly successful Harvard MBAs, he found a small group that was extraordinarily successful, more successful than the rest of group, whether in terms of income, whether in terms of impact, whether in terms of overall quality of life. Extraordinarily successful. What he wanted to identify was why-- what distinguishes this small group from the rest of the pack: very successful, but not quite as successful as that small group. And he found only two things. It was not their IQs that made no difference whatsoever to their long-term success. It was not where they came from, pre-MBA, what they did had nothing to do with it. Two and two things along mattered in terms of determining who will be the extraordinarily successful and the rest: the first thing was the extraordinarily successful groups really believe in themselves. They thought they could do well. They were driven. They were motivated. And we'll talk about it in future lecture as belief in self-fulfilling prophecies. They thought "I'm going to make it. I'm going to succeed." That's the first thing. The sense of the confidence. The second thing that he found was this group, they were always asking questions, --always asking questions, initially of their boss, later of their employees, of their partners, children, parents, friends. They were always asking question. They were always at the state of curiosity. Always looking up, opening up, wanting to understand the world the more. They didn't say "Now I have my MBA. That's it. I know enough. " They were life-long learners. They were always asking questions. These two distinguishing characteristics account for the difference between the extraordinarily successful and those who were successful. The question that has guided me whether it's in writing the book, whether it's in creating this class, whether it's first and foremost my personal life is what I call "the question of the question", which is "how can we help ourselves and others, individuals, communities and society become happier?" Note that it is not about helping ourselves and others become happy. It is about becoming happier. Why? Because many people ask me, "So Tal, are you happy?" And I can't really answer that question. I don't know what it means. How do I determine whether or not I am happy? Is it compared to someone else? Is there a certain point beyond which I become happy? Happiness is not a binary either-or, zero-one-- either I'm happy or I'm unhappy. Happiness resides on a continuum. So my answer to this question-- "am I happy?" is today I'm happier than I was 15 years ago when I started focusing on this pursuit. 15 years from now I certainly hope to be happier than I am today. Happiness is lifelong pursuit. Hopefully this class is part of that pursuit, but just part. You'll not be happy at the end of class. Hopefully you'll be happier. Cos many people sit here during the lectures on self-esteem, for example, or when we talk explicitly about happiness, they say, "Wait. Do I have self-esteem?"-- Thinking to themselves. "Do I have high self-esteem or low self-esteem?" Irrelevant. Impossible to answer also. The question is "how can I improve my self-esteem, my healthy self-esteem, not narcissism of course? How can I become happier?" That's an important question. And this is the question of questions. This class is not a survey of positive psychology. If you want a survey on positive psychology, I can recommend some excellent textbooks whether it's by Lopez (Shane J. Lopez) or by Peterson (Chris Peterson). Great textbooks. There is also The Handbook of Positive Psychology which is a huge book with most what you want to know about this field. You can also use it in self-defense. Very useful in that respect. But a wonderful book, very well-written, very accessible in the spirit of positive psychology. But this is not that. This is not a survey of positive psychology. What it is is a selective exploration of the question of the questions. In that way, it is eclectic. My background is in psychology and philosophy. I studies organizational behavior. I worked as a consultant in business for a few years. Still do some work there. I worked in the field of education, doing a lot of work in field of education. And I take from all these areas. I also draw on not just from positive psychology. I draw on clinical psychology in this class. I draw on cognitive psychology, social psychology and so on. It's an eclectic class. Because my question, my guiding question was "what would contribute to happiness?" And if something within psychopathology I thought could contribute to our wellbeing, I took that and used that. And if something from the field of consulting in organizational behavior could contribute, that became part of the class, as much as I could fit in of course in one semester. So the class is eclectic. The class is not cross-cultural. I will bring in ideas from eastern thoughts. I lived in Asia for a few years. I worked there. Studied and continue to study the eastern philosophies and psychologies. But my train primarily is in western psychology. And the focus of the class will be that. However that doesn't mean that positive psychology doesn't apply to people from different places in the world. There was recently a meeting between senior scientists, psychologists from the west, people like Paul Ekman, Richard Davidson- some of the most important minds in the field of psychology meeting with the Dalai Lama and some of his monks. They were talking about the future of psychology, about the research, and how can you research meditation and so on. And one of the things they were talking a lot about is the cross-cultural differences. And when that came up, the Dalai Lama suddenly seemed uneasy. And when Daniel Goleman who was writting about this whole event and it was held in India asked him what's wrong, Dalai Lama said that he was not comfortable with talking and emphasizing so much cultural differences. You can say many things about Dalai Lama. One thing you cannot say about him is that he's culturally insensitive, arguably one of the most sensitive people alive. And yet he said  we are focusing too much on cultural differences and he added not because there are no cultural differences. Of course there are and they are important. But there are many more similarities than differences. And we shouldn't ignore those similarities. Daniel Goleman about the Dalai Lama, "We were a little bit surprised by the Dalai Lama's seeming resistance to the notion of cultural differences. So I am willing to introduce these ideas but A, because it's not my training and people who are focusing on cultural differences will do a much better job than I do; and second, because what I hope to look into is the universal, things are common across cultures. So we'll study research in this area. But even more than that, we'll become even more particular than just talking about psychology in this part of the world. We'll study yourselves. We are going to go that particular. Now why? When I put this class together, I didn't think to myself, "Ok, so what are the things that I need to introduce in order to please the participants in the class, the students?" That's not what I thought. What I thought about was "what was the class that I would have wanted to take as an undergraduate here? What would help me become happier if I were sitting there?" In other words, thinking from my perspective from very personal perspective. In this class I am going to encourage you. Of course you'll look at research and read research about other people, about large sample sizes. But I'm going to encourage you more than anything to look inside yourselves. To study yourselves. Whether it's through response papers that will be due weekly starting in 2 weeks; whether it's in your final project that will be a presentation that you won't have to give but you'll have to write out-- a presentation about your favorite topic or the topic that matters most to you; whether it's in sections that you'll be talking about how can I apply these ideas to my life. The time-ins are about thinking about how can I take in the ideas and use them. It's about studying ourselves. Because as Carl Rogers says, "What is most personal is most general." "What is most personal is most general." And as Maslow adds, "We must remember that knowledge of one's own deep nature is also simultaneously knowledge of human nature in general." When we understand ourselves better, when we identify ourselves, we are better able to identify with others. In fact, this is in many ways the source of empathy, of the healthy empathy. And there are some studies showing that people who know themselves, who study themselves, who are self-reflective, display less egregious behavior, less immoral behavior toward others. Behavior that would fall under say, racism. And it's counter-intuitive to some extent. "Wait. Don't you first need to study the other so that you can be more sensitive to others?" Yes, that too. But it's not enough. It is important to also study ourselves, because when we see our deep nature, what we encounter there is part of the universal nature, the similarities among us all, regardless of where we are from. And this was what Dalai Lama was talking about: not stop cross-cultural. Do it. Important. But at the same time, not ignore the self. Not ignore the universal within each one of us. C.S. Lewis, "There is one thing and only one in the whole universe which we know about that we could learn from external observation. That one thing is ourselves. We have, so to speak, inside information; we are in the know." Now there are of course biases when we study ourselves which is why it's not enough to just study the self. It's important to counter it, to add to it, academic work, studying others. That's why we'll do some research or study research as well as do some search-- searching inside us. Both are important. We shouldn't, just because there are biases and mistakes that potentially can be made, it doesn't mean we need to throw out the baby with the bath water and stop studying ourselves. So we'll do that or rather you'll do that probably more than any other class on campus. Finally this may be news to you, but this is not English 10A or Math 55, meaning you'll not have to read as much as you will read for 10A or for a history class, and this class is not as difficult as Math 55 so you rest. I'm sure there are some people here who took the class. This class at the same time is about rigorous fun. Fun...because it's fun to study ourselves. Sometimes it hurts and sometimes we see things that we may not like, but overall it's fun. It's interesting. And at the same time it's rigorous, based on research. Now many of the ideas that you'll encounter in this class are very simple, very accessible. Common sense. However they are simple, not simplistic. And here is the difference. Oliver Wendell Holmes-- this court is attributed to him, not 100% sure it's his-- said, "I would not give a fig for the simplicity on this side of complexity, but I would give my life for the simplicity on the other side of complexity." What Holmes means here is that he doesn't care about just simplicity, easy, off-the-cuff, whimsical ideas. What he does care about though is the simplicity that comes after. We have chewed the idea, after we have digested it, after we have thought about it. Ideas that have been worked on. And if on the other side of complexity we can read simplicity and common sense, that's great. That's what he's interested in. That is also positive psychology researchers that we'll discuss throughout the semester are interested in. The simplicity on the other side of complexity. And there is a very big difference between these two simplicities, even though on the face of it, they may at times look similar. What this class requires is a very different kind of effort. A very different kind of effort to other class. Again it doesn't require the effort that you'll need in 55 or in English 10A. The kind of effort that it does require is the effort of application, of applying into your life, of introducing behavioral actual change to your life. And before we go into some of the technicalities of the class such as the syllabus, I want to end with a story about Peter Drucker. Peter Drucker, who I quoted earlier, father of study of management in modern times. Peter Drucker lived to the grand old age of 94, passed away just a couple of years ago. Toward the end of his life while he was still 100% lucid, it was more difficult for him to be mobile and to go into organizations. So what he did was invite people who wanted consulting from him, wanted to learn from him to come to his home. And he had Presidents, Premier Ministers of countries. He had CEOs of Fortune 500 companies coming spend the weekend with him. And on Friday, this was how we started with every session, with every world leader, whether in business, whether in non-for-profit, whether in politics. He would say to them the following, "on Monday I don't want you to call me up and tell me how wonderful it was, "-- meaning how wonderful the weekend was, "on Monday I want you to call me up and tell me what you are doing differently." At the end of the semester or at the end of the lecture, if you enjoyed it, by all means tell me that you enjoyed it, that you had fun. But more important, it is what you are doing differently, how this has an impact on your life and that takes effort. We are going to spend a whole week talking just about change, nothing directly related to positive psychology. Just about change. Because it is so difficult to change. Because we know most organizational change fails, because we know more individual change fails. Unless we introduce behavioral change along with our cognitive and emotional change. Affect and cognition is not enough; behavior has to be there as well. What you are doing differently. To do things differently very often takes courage. Some of your response papers that you'll hand in-- none of them are graded; they are all just graded "pass/failed"-- you'll have to hand them in and then you'll pass. But some of them may be the most difficult papers that you've written here. For some they'll be the easiest. And things will just flow out. That's about introducing change. That's about reflecting. That's about taking time-in. That's about chipping away the excess stone. And it can only be done through this kind of effort. So if you really want class to make a difference in your life, it's up to you. I'm going to introduce to you the material. I'm going to introduce to you this wonderful new field of positive psychology. what is up to you is to then take it and apply it. I want to talk a little about the syllabus and the requirements. And I'll give you a little time for questions. But before I do that, I would also like to welcome-- I know that some of you are watching this from home, to the extension school students, it's wonderful to have you here. Do come and visit once a while. And you'll be working with obviously part of this class, but also with Deb Levy who is the, they had teaching fellow for the extension school. They had teaching fellow for the FAS class is Sean Achor and I'd like just to invite him for just a few words, just to introduce himself to you. And you'll be introduced to other TFs we have. We have an amazing team this year. This is Sean. Sean:Hey good morning. Can you guys hear me? Can you hear me now? Great. This is absolutely honored to be back teaching positive psychology again. Tal is too humble. This is not only extraordinary that he is sharing his time with us, but he's actually moved here back, moved his family back from Israel for the entire semester,-- his wife and his two little children just so he can teach this class with us. And this is absolutely an extraordinary opportunity for us to share this moment with them. And I'm really excited about it. Last time we taught this class, we did a survey to find out what type of people were sitting in this room-- they are just like yourselves-- and find out why you'll be taking this class. Coz the comment that we get so often about this class is why would Harvard students possibly be unhappy? what do they have to be unhappy about? They thought everyone who'd be taking this class would be taking it because they are already really happy and they want to study about how amazing they are. And they'd like to learn things that they can tell the roommates so clearly that (?) themselves. But it turns out actually over a third of people who took this class last year took the class because they felt depressed. And they were trying to learn about the research about positive psychology. And another third because they wanted to learn about optimism. Another third did it for completely different reasons. I think. Additional third this year did it because Tal was on the Jon Stewart Daily Show. I am absolutely thrilled about this class. The syllabus which Tal is about to tell you about is.. Actually we learned a couple of other things about you guys. Did you know that of people who take positive psychology, 75% of you are officers of club, 35% of you are the highest ranking officers of club, which means that you think there are about 2000 clubs at Harvard, you are in club of three, and you happen to be the president. We learned other reasons why you are not happy. we learned that the average number of romantic relationships for people to take positive psychology in 4 years is between zero and one. Zero and one. (Tal: No! I don't believe it.) Don't leave. - But that was before taking positive psychology class.
- That was before taking the class. We are going to test you afterwards. The average number of sexual partners is between zero and .5. I have no idea what .5 sexual partners is. This class is going to be amazing. It was amazing in the past and Tal we actually have extraordinary teaching staff here with us. It's a large teaching staff. And Tal has actually already given us home works so the teachers are going to be learning not only the material you are doing and talk you about which the experts (?), but learning how to be better teachers. He's given us books to read. He's actually given us assignment. It's a big extraordinary class in that sense. In terms of the syllabus, it's going to be online. Tal just described now we've decided to go green, so no trees are in making of this class except the large auditorium made of wood. Sections-- we are going to try sections online next weekend. So we are going to get the numbers on Wednesday. On following weekend we will be doing sectioning that gives you a very short of turnaround time. But that way you can give me Monday to change your section if you need to, which I hope you won't. And sections will start the following week. Thank you very much. If you have any questions, send me an email. Ok, so... I think I don't need to explain to you why there is one lecture in the semester that I don't teach and Sean will teach it. And that is the lecture on humor. Figure out why yourselves. I do think you'll have to walk and talk if you are teaching something. The syllabus. The class, is to introduce you to my thinking about the class, is what I call it, integrated class. What that means is that integrated vertically as well as horizontally. Vertically means that every class connected to the next class is connected to every class throughout the semester around a spiral. So what we'll talk about next week, we'll revisit it again in lesson 7, lesson 17 and lesson 24. Everything is interconnected on the higher level on a spiral-- in other words will lead to deep understanding and hopefully assimilation of the material. So it's vertically interconnected. It's also horizontally interconnected. That means every part of the class reinforces and influences the other part. The lectures, not enough, you'll get a lot more in sections. Sections are mandatory. You'll do a lot of work in your sections, very much related to your response papers that many student claim the most important part of the class. Because that's where you get the time-in. That's when you really get to chip away. Very much connected to the final project. The final project is a presentation that you'll write out. You don't actually give it but give it to a couple of friends just to get feedback. Not graded on that part. The final project is graded as a final paper, but just what you hand in, what you submit. And the reason why there is a final paper because the best way which is like a presentation, because the best way to learn is to teach. And you'll be teaching these materials to other people -- any material that you are interested in in your presentation. So the readings, very much connected and take you to the next level of understanding and assimilation. So any questions before I finish up? Any question from you? Alright. So let me just say-- one second finishing words. I am very excited to be back here. My families are very excited to be back here. Looking forward to a meaningful, pleasurable, enjoyable and happier semester with you. Thank you. 



 Chapter 1: 为什么要学习积极心理学？


Hi. Good morning. I'm so glad that you came. I was worried that no one would show up in this weather. I'm glad you are Ok. Just a couple of announcements. Questions that I received via email. A few things before we jump into the material. First of all,I was asked,"who is this class for? Is it for people-- you know it's positive psychology -- people that are very unhappy? Is it only for people who are depressed? who is this class for?" Well,the class is for anyone who is interested in Positive psychology and anyone who wants to be happier. If you are extremely happy,you can still be happier. If you are very unhappy,you can still be happier. so the class essentially is for anyone who's interested in the material- and I would add someone who is really interested to work, to put the kind of effort that we talked about last time. Just not the kind of effort that we would require you to wreck your head about understanding certain concept, but it is effort in terms of applying these ideas to your lives. Now you may want to take this class, because you are interested on academic level in positive psychology that's perfectly fine. And you'll get many-- we'll talk about numerous studies in every lecture, starting next time. We'll talk about study after study after study, so you'll get that element as well. However,if you are thinking about taking positive psychology for personal benefits,you need to put the effort in. And I'll talk more about that today. So the class is for everyone. Anyone who's extremely happy and wants to be happier, and anyone who's not happy and wants to be happier. Pass/fail-- perfectly fine. Again the idea about this class is first and foremost for you. So I would urge you if you do take pass and fail to put in the work, and that's why the one element of pass/fail is not negotiable is that all the response papers have to be submitted. Now the response papers,as you know,are not graded. They are basically reflection papers. Will you reflect about the ideas about things that can be applied to your life? But they are required. So you hand them in,you pass. If you don't hand them in,you fail. But other than that,by all means, if you want to take this class pass/fail,it's perfectly fine. Third thing, you'll be exposed to many theories,to many ideas in this class. Not everything would resonate of you. There's a wonderful book just came out in 2008, just two weeks ago,called "The How of Happiness" by Sonja Lyubomirsky. And there she talks about the concept-- she's a professor at Riverside (UC), Harvard college graduate and went to Stanford for graduate school she talks about the importance of finding fit, meaning the fit between certain technique, or tool,or idea,and yourself. Not every idea, not every study that you've heard about, not every intervention that you actually practice and you will practice interventions in your life, whether it's doing acts of kindness, whether it's expressing gratitude, whether it's physical exercising,whether it's journaling. You will do all these things throughout the semester. Not everything would be right for you. You'll be exposed to it. You'll try it. And then you'll make up your mind, "yes,this is what I want to incorporate" or "no,this is just not relevant for me." So it's important to keep that in mind. Anything that I talk about is backed by research, but the research doesn't say it's right for everyone. It says it's for most people or for many people; this has worked or it is working. So again be an active participant in this class as opposed to passive recipient of a doctrine. And identify the things that work for you-- not everything. I guarantee not everything will work for you, but a lot of things will. Your response papers that I just mentioned earlier: they are due at 5 pm,sorry, you'll get them by 5 pm on Tuesday,starting next Tuesday. And they will be due at 5 pm on Sunday to your TF. Again the response papers are usually for most people fun, interesting and engaging activities. Not graded,just basically for you to reflect, for you to grow through them. Thesis writers. How many of you are thesis writers? Just so I get a show of hand here. Ok,I am sorry. No I'm kidding. Thesis writers: you'll not need to take the midterms. I know it's crunch time around that time- being through it myself here. So you'll not have to take the midterm. Your final will account for more. Unless you want to take the midterm, of course you'll more than welcome to. we won't throw you out of the classroom. Your thesis writers may. There'll be many announcements online. Do check the website on the regular basis. We communicate a lot of things. Instead of sending you emails, we'll have the announcements. Check them regularly,about 6 7 times a day. Just kidding. Once a day or once every two days is more than enough. I'd like Before I do jump into the material and we have a very exciting lecture today, to invite Deb Levy who is the head TF for extension school-- so extension school students, I know there are a couple of you here, those of you at home-- here she is. Deb Levy. Deb Levy:Alright. I have about 20,30 minutes to talk so I'm gonna start with my childhood. I am just kidding. I am the head TF for the extension school and we are thrilled. We have 296 extension students taking this course online, which means they are going to watch videos, and then extension students you'll be in sections on teleconference, When people are gonna call in, there are gonna be teleconferences which is going to be a great opportunity. Let's say hi to people out there in New Zealand. Hi. France. Kentucky. Lexington. It's really unbelievable. So the other thing is I want to take a picture actually. (Tal: No pictures in the classroom.) You'll take a picture Tal. So I am not going to do any lecturing. But since Tal and I have very similar systematic stuff, so if Tal is absent for any reason, I'll be doing the lecture for you. (Tal: Good.) The other is: people who are extension, I want to you be patient. We are going to get information out there as soon as we can. And you'll all be sectioned in next week or so. And feel thrilled to be here. Great. Thank you Deb. So I want to start with a story, something that happened to me exactly 2 years ago, just about to the day, when was the last time when I taught positive psychology. As the semester started, it was a very stressful period also,my mentor, who I am dedicating this class as well as all my future positive psychology class is to, Philip Stone passed away just the day before the class started. Very stressful period. And I got sick. And I got very sick. Somehow I got through the class. I taught the Thursday class. That started 2 years ago. It started on Tuesday. So I taught on Tuesday. Somehow Thursday,completely drugged. This lecture I made it through somehow. And I went to home  and I couldn't fall asleep. I was in real pain. I went to the doctors. That was on Friday afternoon,just saying "you know I have to go. The medication I took didn't help." Went to the doctors. Had some blood tests. And finally after days I couldn't sleep because of pain,fell asleep. This was Friday night. In the midnight,there was a phone call. I don't hear it. I am fast asleep. My wife picks it up. Tommy picks it up. It's the doctor. And the doctor says to Tommy, "the test results just came in. And Tal should get to the hospital now." She said to the doctor, "He just fell asleep. He hasn't slept for days. Can it wait til tomorrow morning?" And the doctor said,"No. And he has to go to Beth Israel, because they have the best labs for what he needs right now." And she doesn't elaborate it any more. Tommy wakes me up,retells me the story of what's happening. Somehow I get up. She can't take me to the hospital because David, at that time one year old,is asleep. We don't want to wake him up. So we get a cab to take me to Beth Israel. On the way-- so this was the year after I was no longer resident tutors in Leverett. We were (?),driving down the Charles River. Up and drive and then next to Harvard. I look at Harvard. I look at the beautiful river. It's very quiet. Not many cars just after midnight on a Friday night. And I can't help myself but think, "what if there's something really terrible going on?" I mean,why would they call me midnight to the hospital-- Beth Israel,insisting on just one specific hospital? There must be something really wrong. And my mind begins to wander. And I say, "what if I only have a year left? What would I do in that year?" I become very sad because I think I won't see David grow up. I won't see-- I won't have any future children. Be careful up there. And I become very wistful and sad. And then I ask myself,"Ok so professionally, what would I want to do in that last year?" So I know personally exactly what I'll do. I'll spend all the time that I can with my family. But professionally what do I want to accomplish in this year? And my immediate response was I want to leave behind a coherent body of work, a coherent course introducing people to positive psychology. While I arrived at the hospital,I had some more checks. It ends up being nothing too serious. They put me on antibiotics. And within a couple of days I am on the way to recovery. I want to share with you today though why. Why is it the most important thing for me at that time and still today, is to leave behind a coherent body of work about positive psychology, to introduce you to this wonderful field? Why positive psychology?Why is it? Its own field? Why is it not--well,just study happiness, wellbeing as part of social psychology or clinical psychology? Why have so many scholars around the world united around this concept of positive psychology? So this is what I want to do today. In the year of 2000,a research was done by David Myers. Davis Myers,from Hope College-- some of you who've studied social psychology may have read his textbook, did research,looking at psychological abstracts. What he looked at was the ratio between "negative research" and "positive research". Here is what he found. From 1967 to year of 2000- this was around the time when positive psychology started, what he found in the 33 years are over 5000 articles on anger, 5000 research articles on anger. He found over 41000 research articles on anxiety and over 54000 articles on depression. And then he looked at the positive words,positive research. He looked for research on joy. And he found staggering 415 studies. It does get better. He looked at research on happiness and he found close to 2000 articles on happiness in 33 years. Life satisfaction came on top: over 2500 studies. Still,if you look at that, the negative studies versus the positive studies, the ratio that you get is 21 to 1. For every one article on some positive aspect, some positive element of life, wellbeing,satisfaction,joy,happiness, you get 21 articles on depression,anxiety, schizophrenia,neurosis and so on. Ratio of 21 to 1. Very depressing ratio,I must admit. In fact,it made me very angry and anxious. Studies focus on,primarily on what doesn't work, mostly on what doesn't work. And this is not a new phenomenon. Here is something from Abraham Maslow, who we mentioned last time, talking about this phenomenon in 1954: "The science of psychology has been far more successful on the negative than on the positive side. It has revealed to us much about man's shortcomings, his illnesses,his sins, but little about his potentialities,his virtues, his achievable aspirations or his psychological height. It is as if psychology had voluntarily restricted itself to only half its rightful jurisdiction and that darker,meaner half." So what does psychology study? I mean the psychology concentrators here know that, probably guess that. We study a lot of prejudice. We study a lot depression and anxiety. We study a lot about conformity. We study a lot about misjudgments and errors, very much focusing on this aspect and very little-- again,21 to 1,very little-- on the positive. And when I look at this ratio and I think about it, this is 1954-- hasn't changed much since. And when I think about it and I look into it, I think that psychology needs help. I really do. I mean think about it at a personal level. that if you had a person who 21 hours a day was depressed and one hour in a day felt good? Or one day feeling good and then 21 days feeling anxious and depressed? You would say that this person would need help. And the field I think,needs help. But the question becomes "is it the right analogy?" Should we look at it this way? Because the 21 ratio is unhealthy, certainly would be so on the individual level, but it reflects reality in many ways. Because what we are seeing today in more and more research showing that there is more and more depression around the world, that there is more and more anxiety,east,west,north,south-- around the world. And one could argue-- people who argue for continuing to do research in this area, for doing less in positive psychologies,-- well we should be doing even more than the 21 to 1 ratio, because we want to alleviate the anxiety and depression that people experience. Today depression is 10 times higher than it was in 1960. Now part of it is because there's more awareness, because we measure better. But that's not all. It's also simply because objectively there's more depression. And one way of knowing that is that the most objective "measure" that we have is unfortunately suicide. And numbers have risen significantly around the world, not just in the United States-- whether it's in China,whether it's Australia-- as well as here. The mean age for depression today is less than 15. Kids at very young age are introduced to the "information highway". And very often,they are not prepared, not able to deal with it in an effective way. So when we look at this data, we say we do need more research to help people overcome depression,to help people overcome anxiety. And I don't want to belittle that. That is important. It is extremely important. What I'm arguing,what I will argue for, is the shift of the pendulum. So it's no longer 21 to 1. There are more,many more studies in positive psychology, -- not to the exclusion of,not at all, but just shifting the pendulum. How about here? In our local village? This article,-- I couldn't find a study that is more recent, this was published in 2004. Harvard Crimson (http://www.thecrimson.com/). This article says that,in their 6 months study of this, 80% of Harvard students experienced depression over the past year. Now we are not talking about the regular ups and downs that most people have ten times a day-- I certainly do. We are talking about depression here. For an extended period of time. 47% of Harvard students,according to this,-- and grant it: this is not academic study, but I will share with you academic study in a minute, published in a top-tier refereed journal. But Crimson has founded in its survey that 47% Harvard students over the past year have experienced depression to the point of not functioning. So they couldn't leave home. They were really struggling to just basically get through the day. 47%. Now when people look at this,they say "well of course,we need to focus more on psychopathology. 21 to 1-- not enough! 30 to 1 sounds more like it." We see it around campuses. This is not peculiar to Harvard. Not at all peculiar to Harvard. Richard Kadison, who is the head of mental health services here, in the New England Journal of Medicine-- probably the leading journal in the field of Medicine, recently published an article, where he talked about a survey that was done among 13500 college students nationwide, different kinds of colleges, universities,states schools,private schools. And what they found in this very significant study was that 45% of college students nationwide over the past year have experienced depression to the point of not functioning. So The Harvard Crimson found 47; nationwide,it was 45-- essentially identical, no significant difference among the two. This is a nationwide phenomenon. In this study, 94% of college students nationwide feel overwhelmed and stressed by everything that they have to do. 94%. I mean these are supposed to be the best four years of our lives. Something is going on here. Now this is not unique to United States. I just recently came back from a tour. I was in-- spent time in Europe-- in the UK,France; spent a lot of time in China and some time in Australia. In every one of these places, the governments are really concerned; university presidents are very concerned about the growing level of depression, anxiety and general mental disorder, rise of suicide rates in all of these countries that I mentioned. So we have a global epidemic here. And once again going back so: Is it the 21:1 ratio good? Is it important? Shouldn't it be increased? How can we even think about studying happiness and well-being and love and joy? Shouldn't we first deal with the real pressing problem of depression, anxiety,neurosis and so on? --Some truth to that, but again what I'm going to argue for in this class is that we do need to also, not only,not exclusively,not even necessarily primarily, we need to also focus on the positive. I am going to talk about three reasons why we should do that. The first reason is that it is important to focus on what works, because what works or what we focus on rather creates reality. If we focus on what is working, we'll have more working in our world, more working in ourselves,more working in our relationships. The second reason why positive psychology as an independent field of study as a course in and of itself is important is that being happy is not just the negation of happiness. It doesn't mean just get rid of depression or anxiety that I am experiencing, I spontaneously become happy. That's not the case. That's not how it works. And finally,prevention which is very important today, the most effective way of preventing hardship, -- whether it's depression,whether it's anxiety, -- is actually by focusing on and cultivating the positive. Now I will share with you some studies about this. So for these three reasons,we need positive psychology. Let me begin with the importance of focusing on what works. In the introduction to the Handbook of Positive Psychology, Martin Seligman who we talked about last time, considered the father of positive psychology, network of scholars,says this: "The aim of positive psychology is to catalyze a change in psychology from a preoccupation only with repairing the worst things in life to also building the best qualities in life." Note that he says also. He doesn't say exclusively or even primarily. It's important to focus on what works, -- whether it is in our relationship,whether it's in ourselves, whether it's in others,whether it's in Harvard, whether it's in United States or the world-- in order to have more what works. Now the question is "how do we focus on what works?" And the answer to this question is through the questions that we ask. Let me illustrate through a case study. Psychologists,starting in the late 1940s, studied at-risk population. More and more money-- government money,university money, philanthropist money-- went into study in the cities or places where generally the kids were considered at risk-- more prone to dropping out of school, more prone to later-on crime,teen pregnancy and so on. So this study they put in a lot of money, a lot of effort into this. The question that the psychologists asked was "why do these individuals fail? why does such a high percentage of students in that as-risk population end up dropping out of school? Getting pregnant? Crime?" --And we'll talk about the statistics later on next week. "Why do so many of these individuals fail?" Now an important question, good intentions of the psychologists,smart people,lot of money, lot of resources going in. However,very little change was introduced. Very little change came about as results of these studies. And the situation in many areas continued to exacerbate. Certain didn't get any better,despite the good intentions, despite the resources,despite the brain power that twined into the researching into this question. Interesting answers-- well,we need better education,we need better buildings, we need more resources, but very little change actually in practice came about. And then there was a paradigm, quite literally a paradigm shift in the 1980s. Through the work of Antonovsky who I mentioned last time and I'll mention again today,through the work of Antonovsky, and other people like Ellen Langer,other people like Alice Isen, different questions started to be asked by psychologists. Instead of asking what did these individuals fail, positive psychologists started to ask what made some individuals succeed despite unfavorable circumstances? Maybe it was the case that many failed,but not everyone. Some succeeded and succeeded big time. And what psychologists started to do then was to ask why. What is it about them that is so successful? And that,in the words of Frost,made all the difference. The psychologists started to identify elements, aspects of these individuals and studied them in depth, starting to study the successful individuals, and identify elements that they could then teach later in creating interventions based on what they had studied. And suddenly,there were results,real results, tangible results,after decades of virtually zero results, simply based on the question. And the main concept that came out at that time, through the research of these psychologists who started to ask the positive question, started to focus on what is working on the successful children. The concept that came out was the concept of resilience. Now today everyone talks about resilience. We talk about resilience in school, at work,in the job,in the bedroom. Everywhere resilience. However,at that time in the 1980s, very few people even talked about or knew what that means. When they studied resilience,which is defined as following, it made all the difference. Resilience,-- a class of phenomena characterized by patterns of positive adaptation in the context of significant adversity or risk. These kids,who succeeded-- ended up succeeding, and they look through longitudinal studies-- 5 years later,10 years,30 years later, the kids who succeeded,were resilient. Initially,when they studied these kids, the assumption was these must be super kids,extraordinary kids, one in a hundred,one in a thousand- not really replicable,therefore. However, what they found when they continued to study those people who work,those people who succeeded, despite the unfavorable circumstances, -- what they found was these were not super kids. In fact these were ordinary kids with ordinary characteristics that led to extraordinary results. For example,let me share with you some of the things. These kids were optimistic, -- not optimistic in the detached Pollyannish sense, -- optimistic in that they believe in things that would work out well, and we'll talk a lot about optimism as an interpretation style, in the work of Martin Seligman and karen Reivich. They were optimistic in the sense of thinking, "well,it may not work well this time. It will work out later. I have learned from what had just happened." They had faith and sense of meaning in life. Sometimes it was religious faith,not always. It was doing something that they really believed in. Many of them were idealistic. One of main topics we will discuss in this class is that to be idealistic is to be realistic, because we have a real internal need,innate need for idealism. So these kids experienced sense of meaning, whether it was meaning in terms of personal success and how I will make it, or sense of meaning in their community contributing, something meaningful in sense of purpose. By the way,when I go through all these, these are no less important for any other person in the world. This resilience as we mentioned earlier is just not important for the at-risk population. It's as important at Harvard. And not just during exam period. It's important that resilience is associated with wellbeing. So think about these characteristics and you display them. And the interesting thing about all these characteristics they can all be learned. that I'll mention here is that they can all be taught; In many ways,this class is about that. And when the psychologists identified these, they started to teach them and the individuals started to learn and that made all the difference. In addition to the faith and sense of meaning, pro-social behavior,helping other people, shifting from helplessness to helpfulness,they were significant. One of the things that we'll talk about is how meaningful it is to help other people. And how much it doesn't just only help others, it also helps ourselves. And we enter an upward spiral between self-help and other-help. Because when we help others,we are helping ourselves. when we help ourselves,we help others. And so on and so on. So they were pro-social. They were helping other people. They focused on their strength rather than primarily deficiencies. They did not ignore their weaknesses,but they asked, "what am I good at? What am I really,really good at?" And again,part of this course, you'll identify your strength, whether it's through online test, whether it's through reflection papers, whether it's in section. You'll think about it whether it's through your readings. Identify the strength. What are they good at? They set goals for themselves. They were future-oriented, not just thinking about how bad things are today perhaps, but also thinking about "this is where I wanna be 5 years or 10 years from now." We are going to devote three classes to goal setting, very significant part of resilience. They had a role model. Someone who they said about "I want to be like her; I want to be like him." It could be a teacher. It could be a parent,sibling,friend. Sometimes, it was a historical figure or a fictional character, someone that they want to emulate,to be like. That gave them strength. That gave them sense of direction. And finally,most significantly,they did not bowl alone. They had social support. They did not say : "well I am tough enough to do it by myself." Rather they said :"I'm tough enough to reach out for help." Because that does require certain toughness. The strength to admit weaknesses as well, the strength to admit a need. Now think about these: do you have these things here for yourself at Harvard in life? And if not,you can cultivate all of these things, whether it's a social support-- and it doesn't have to be a hundred people whom you talk to everyday; it can be one or two close friends,mom,dad,roommates-- makes a big difference. No. 1 contributor to resilience. Now the important thing about social support is identifying the right people. People who,when you reach out to them, will reach back to you and will be able to give back. I want to show you an example now of a not so good role model for social support. And that is an interaction between Grace and Karen from Will and Grace. Will and Grace (From Episode 309): SALESMAN: This video game makes a nice birthday gift. Do you think your stepson would like that? KAREN: I don't know,honey. Can he eat it or rub up against it? SALESMAN: Let's come at this a different way. What are his interests? KAREN: Ham. SALESMAN: Why don't I just let you browse awhile? KAREN: Yeah. Thanks. Ooh,and,uh, do you think there's anything you could do about all these kids in here? SALESMAN: Ma'am,it's a toy store. KAREN: Yeah. See what you can do. Move it,shorty. GRACE: Hi,Karen. Um... I can't help you shop today. I've gotta go. KAREN: What's going on? What's happening? What's with the geisha hand? GRACE: Nothing. I just had something zapped at the dermatologist's, and it looks kinda funky, and I just don't want anyone to see it right now. KAREN: Grace, I'm sure it's not nearly as bad as you think it is. It's probably nothing,a little dot. Come on. Show mama. KAREN: Aah! Whoa! Oh! Oh,my God! Oh! GRACE: Shh! Shhhhh! Karen,Will you calm down? KAREN: How do you expect me to calm down when I can see its heart beating right in front of me?! Aah! GRACE: Shh! KAREN: Well,uh,alright. Alright,I'm sorry. So how long have you had the herpes? GRACE: It's not herpes. It's not even herpes adjacent. KAREN: Oh,yeah? Well, it's close enough to be invited to the herpes family picnic. GRACE: It was a weird freckle, and the doctor wanted to freeze it, and then he told me that it was going to take 10 days to heal. I mean,what made him assume that I could look awful for 10 days? Respond to that,and I will rub it all over your Prada. KAREN: What are you lookin' at,prego? Haven't you ever seen herpes before? Jeez. Fat people are so insensitive GRACE: Oh,my God. Oh,my God. Would you look at it in this little toy mirror? It's gotten...bigger. It's like Barbie's dream zit. Thank God I canceled my date with Mark. KAREN: Yeah,'cause that thing looks like it needs orange cones and police tape around it. GRACE: Come on. Let's get outta here. So Karen may not be a good choice for social support. But there are many people who are. Now think about the power of the question. Think about what a question did. For decades, many kids who potentially could have been helped weren't helped, because the right question was not asked as well. And it was only after positive question, the focusing on the positive question was asked that suddenly psychologists were able to see what was right in front of them for decades. It was right there,apparent evident,waiting to be discovered, but they completely missed it. Smart,well-intentioned,well-funded, but also didn't ask the right question. Questions create reality. They create possibilities. A question begins a quest. What they did in positive psychology again, a great deal through the work of Antonovsky was move us from the pathogenic model to the salutogenic model. Salutogenesis,the foundation,the origin of health. And Antonovsky was talking about, he said that it's important to study illness, mental illness,physical illness, but it's equally important to study the healthy people, the healthy individuals to see how they make it, whether it's people at Harvard. Harvard is a stressful environment. However,there are some people who are able to go through it, to do well,to thrive,flourish and-- well still going through the ups and downs, we all do-- overall experience it as a much more positive experience as a happy experience overall. How do they do that? Why? Antonovsky said we need to study that so that we understand the origin of health. And he studied these things and it made a big difference in the field as a whole. Quote Antonovsky: "All those familiar with the history of science are aware thatimportant advances come with the formulation of the new questions. The question is the breakthrough; the answer comes with difficulty, but it is the new question that is important. The salutogenic question, I submit to you,(that is what is working) is a radically new question, which provides the impetus for formulating a new paradigm to help us understand health and illness. It has serious implications for researcher and clinician, biological and social scientist alike." It was that question that essentially created the field of positive psychology as well as positive sociology. He was a sociologist by training as well as many other fields. Questions make a difference. Questions create reality. I want to do an exercise with you now. We'll do quite a few exercises in class. Here's the first one. To illustrate the importance of question, now I'm going to ask you to count the number of geometric shapes that you see on the screen-- no,not this screen, the next screen. And you are Harvard students. It's fine. The next screen, I am going to ask you to count the number of geometric shapes that you see on the screen. It's a very difficult question. I've given it to people around the world. I've given it to mathematicians,to artists who are very visual. And the challenge here is you are only going to have 30 seconds in which to do it, 30 seconds to tell me how many geometric shapes you see on the screen. Ready? 30 seconds. How many geometric shapes do you see on the screen? Go. Ok. So that's 31 seconds. So there should be no problem. Now if you haven't done- I know a couple of you have done this exercise before, but if you haven't done- this exercise before, -- and that's most of you, I'd like you to participate. So how many geometric shapes could you count on the screen? Throw out the numbers. 6. 8. 48. 58. 44. 36. 110. 38. How many? Up there? You have a good perspective. 8. Anyone more than 110? Yeah,how many? 300? 200. Anyone more than 200 or less than 6? Ok. So quite a range. But I grant you that it's a tough question. By the way if you have it on your power points that you downloaded, I took it off on the later downloading, but if you downloaded it, don't look at it now please. So we have the rate between 6 and 200. Now it's a tough question. In fact, it is so tough that I have no idea how many geometric shapes there are on the screen. But I have another question for you. Now if you know the answer to this question, just put your hand up --and if you haven't done this exercise before, -- just put your hand up. Don't shout it out. If you know the answer,put your hand up: what time was it on the clock? If you know the answer,put your hand up. If you think you know the answer,half way up. Maybe maybe,quarter. And the rest of you may leave now. Ok,so we have a few halves. So out of the room, --how many were there-- probably 600,700 students here, out of 700 Harvard students, five and a half people can read the time on the clock. But I understand,we all have digital watches today. It's difficult. So let me ask you an easier question. If you know the answer,just put your hand up. That's right! How many kids were visible on the bus? If you know the answer,put your hand up. If you think you know,half way up. Maybe,quarter. Yeah,most of you think,"what bus?!" You know. "What kids?" Well it was there. So out of a room of --again -- 700 Harvard students, there are approximately 11 and 3/4. Who can count? But that's Ok. That's not my 55 (Math 55 course in Harvard) here. I understand. Another question. A little bit easier. What was the color of,the dominant color of the left-most geometric shape on the screen? Not the big one on screen, but the left-most geometric shape on the screen. What was the dominant color? If you know the answer,hand right up. If you think you know,half way. Ok. So that's about 12 1/4 people. According to my estimated research, there are probably between 5 and 7 people in this room who are color blind. Really-- according to the statistics. The rest of you have no excuse. Let's look. So the time on the clock? Someone difficult to obscure the time? 10:10. Well it's a bit difficult. Visible children on the bus? Here's the bus,for those of you still can't see it. 5. And the color. The dominant color of the geometric shape? Yellow. What happened? I mean these are not very difficult questions. Even the final of positive psychology is going to be difficult than that. I mean,really. A lot more. Why? Well the reason is I asked you a certain question, and that question directed you to a certain part of reality. And that's a good thing. Because if we were focusing on everything all the time, that wouldn't be a good thing. We would be distracted by every single noise, by every single movement. So it's a good thing that we can focus. However,we also need to remember the consequences of this ability to focus that is not always good it's not always helpful. Because as far as you were concerned, there were no children on the bus. As far as you were concerned, there were only geometric shapes. In other words,my question,for most of you, created a very specific reality, a reality which there were geometric shapes and no children on the bus. Now that has very important implications. Think about the following question: what question is mostly asked by couples beyond the honeymoon phase? so they go through the honeymoon phase whether it's a month,a year or sometimes two years. What questions do they begin to ask after that period of time? "What's wrong? What's not working? How can we improve the relationship?" Now that's a very important question to ask. Very important. But if that's the only question or the only questions that we ask, then that is the only thing we will see. The only things that we will see are our deficiencies, the things that are not working, the things that need to be improved, the weaknesses of my partner, of the relationship. If the only questions that I ask are "what is not working", "what's wrong","what do I need to improve"-- and again, these are not questions we need to do away with, they are important. However if they are the only questions, and usually they are the only questions that are asked or primarily asked, then as far as the couple is concerned,not objectively, but as far as the couple is concerned, good things do not exist in the relationship. Just like as far as you are concerned, there were no children on the bus, even though they were right there in front of you, staring at you. But they do not exist. Or think about it at an individual level. This is very important. What is the question that we, most Americans,most Australians,most Chinese, most Israelis,most Europeans,Africans-- what is the question that is mostly asked about the self? And the reason why I mentioned all these places is because this is cross-cultural study. People mostly ask themselves, "what are my weaknesses? What do I need to improve?" Very often to the exclusion of "what are my strengths? What are my virtues? What am I good at?" And if the only question that we ask ourselves are the only questions that are "what are my weaknesses? Deficiencies?", then the only thing we'll see in ourselves are weaknesses and deficiencies. And as far as we are concerned, the good things-- our strengths,our passions,our virtues-- the wonderful things within us do not exist. Just like as far as you are concerned, the children on the bus did not exist. Now I ask you, could a person who only or primarily focuses on weaknesses and does not see, does not appreciate their strength,their passions, their virtues-- can a person like that experience high levels of self-respect, self-confidence,happiness? And we wonder,why do so many relationships fail? And we wonder,why depression,anxiety and low self-esteem are increasing so much? The intentions are there. They are good. We are asking "How can we improve? What can we do better?" But if we don't also ask the positive question, that part of reality will not exist as far as we are concerned. Just like for the psychologists for decade, the answer to their questions,the solution to the problem that they wanted to solve did not exist, even though it is right there, in front of their very eyes within the successful kids, within their resilience. Questions create reality. The questions we ask very often determine the quest that we will pursue, the path that we will take, the life that we will lead, whether it's individually, whether it's interpersonally, whether it's organizationally. What is the question? Many of you I know are going into consulting. What's the question that most consultants ask, Either explicit question or implicit question, the first time when they meet a client? --"What's wrong? What can we improve? What are the weaknesses that we need to strengthen them?" Again,important questions to ask. But if you only ask these questions, then you are ignoring the strengths, the virtues of the organization. And what you are doing,you are enervating, you are weakening the organization over time. It is as important,if not more important, to also appreciate what is working, organizationally,interpersonally,as well as individually. It is important to appreciate what is good. I mean,look at the word,"appreciate". Two meanings: first meaning-- to say thank you for something, not to take it for granted. And that's a nice thing to do. We shouldn't take for granted our virtues,our successes. We shouldn't take for granted others. That's a nice thing to do. But appreciate has a second meaning,which is to grow. Money appreciates in the bank. The economy hopefully appreciates. When we appreciate the good, the good appreciates-- the good grows. Unfortunately,the other side of the same coin applies as well. When we don't appreciate the good, when we take it for granted,the good depreciates. And that's what happens in most relationships after the honeymoon phase. That's what happens to most people, especially to very driven people who want to improve, who want to get better. And that's good thing, if that is what makes you happy. At the same time, it's equally important to also appreciate what is good inside me what my strengths,what my virtues are. And we are going to do a lot of that in the course. And again,not to go to the point of narcissism. If anything narcissism-- and we'll talk about it in the second last lecture in the semester- narcissism is not about self-confidence,about self-esteem. It's exactly the opposite. We are talking about grounded self-confidence. Grounded,generous,benevolent happiness. In order to lead that kind of life, we need to also appreciate what is working, to also focus on,metaphorically speaking,the children on a bus. Stavros and Torres in the wonderful book on relationships, "We see what we look for and we miss much of what we are not looking for even though it is there. Our experience of the world is heavily influenced by where we place our attention." Questions very often create reality. The first important thing to understand about questions is that we need to understand the questions. And here I want to defer to a very important philosopher, a 20th and 21st century philosopher, who illustrates the importance of understanding questions-- Homer Simpson. If you can just turn down the voice,the sound a little bit, because this is very loud. Thank you. The Simpsons SCULLY: Now we're gonna run a few tests. This is a simple lie detector. I'll ask you a few yes or no questions and you just answer truthfully. Do you understand? HOMER: Yes. Love it. Love it. So the first step is really understanding the question. But once we understand it, it is also important to know what questions are we going to ask. I mentioned earlier that one of the most important things in cultivating resilience is having a role model. I want to share with you now my role model, in fact,the person who is the reason why I decided to become a teacher. Her name is Marva Collins. Marva Collins was born in Alabama in the 1930s. Her father was African American; her mother,Native American. she was born at a time in a place where there was a great deal of discrimination. Fortunately,for Marva, her father really believed in her and said to her from a very young age, "Marva,you can make something of your life. You can become a secretary." Now the reason why he said secretary is because that was where the glass ceiling, or rather concrete ceiling exists for a person of her ethnic background, a person of her gender. Marva Collins worked hard. She was smart. She succeeded. She made it. And she became a secretary. After a few years of working as a secretary,doing well, she decided this was not for her and what her calling in life. Her real passion was in teaching. She wanted to be a school teacher. She went to night school. A few years later, she got her teaching certificate, got married and with her husband moved to Chicago. There she joined the public school system in inner city,Chicago. The reality that she found, that she encountered there was a reality of much crime, much drugs and more than anything,hopelessness. The hope of the teachers was to keep the students in school for as long as possible. Why? --So that they don't join the street gangs at the age of 12; so that they are protected from the drugs,from crime. "How can we keep the students in school for as long as possible?" asked the teachers. Marva Collins walks into this reality and says, "Things are going to be different." On the first day of class, -- she teaches first graders to fourth graders-- --on the first day of class, she says to her students, "We are going to do a lot of believing in ourselves." And she repeats this message over and over and over again, like a broken record throughout the semester and the year and years. "I believe in you. You can do well. You can succeed. Take responsibility for your life. Stop blaming. Stop blaming the government. Stop blaming your teachers. Stop blaming your parents. It is up to you to succeed." And she continues with this message over and over and over again. Having really high expectations of her students, looking at what they are good at, their strength and cultivating those. Miracles begin to happen. These students, considered by many of the teachers to be"unteachable"- these "unteachable" ones by the time that they are in fourth grade are reading Euripides,Emerson and Shakespeare. These "unteachable" ones at the age of 10 are doing high school mathematics. Now rumor begins to spread about Marva Collins, because how can she keep these students in class for so long, when all the other students are just trying to get out of school? She must be using force. And Marva Collins has enough of these rumors, leave the public school system,opens up her own school in her own kitchen with 4 students and initially, two of them her own kids. Gradually,more and more students join the Marva Collins school, Westside preparatory she calls it. All the students that initially joined the school are public school dropouts. Marva Collins is the last resort before the street. And the miracles continue. Gradually more and more students come in. She has to move out of her home. They wretchedly rent a small shack in Chicago place, freezing in winter,scorching hot in summer. And yet the students are driven by their passion. And they continue. Miracles continue to happen to them. Every one of Marva Collins' students graduates from elementary school. Everyone goes to high school and graduates from high school. Every one of her students ends up in college and graduates from college. Yes,those "unteachable" ones. Marva Collins lives in a dire poverty for decades, somehow making ends meet. After all,most of her students can't pay. But somehow,months to months,she makes it. 1979 it changes overnight. A producer,from the television CBS program "60 Minutes" finds out about Marva Collins and creates a 15 minutes segment on her. Overnight she becomse famous. November,1980, new President elect Ronald Reagan calls up Marva Collins. offers her to be his secretary of Education. So I guess her father was right. Marva Collins turns his offers down and says, "I love to teach too much. My place is in the classroom. 8 years later almost to the day, new president elect George Bush Sr. calls Marva Collins once again, offering her to be his secretary of education. Once again,"I love to teach too much." My place is in the classroom. In 1995,a wealthy philanthropist donates tens of millions of dollars to Marva Collins. Now there are Marva Collins schools all over the country where thousands of students learn, where hundreds of teachers from all over the world come and see the miracle of Marva Collins. Today there are Marva Collins graduates who are politicians, business people,lawyers,doctors, and more than anything,teachers. Because they know what their teacher has done for them. I want to show you a brief excerpt of this extraordinary woman. You can turn the volume up a little bit please. This is soft. Marva Collins "Positive Learning" I think I did pretty wonderful. I think I'm bright. I think I am unique. And I'll teach every child of me to think that. When they misbehave, their punishment is they have to write 100 reasons why they are too wonderful to do what they are doing. And they have to be alpha order. I am adorable. I am beautiful. I am courageous. I give them the first ones until they get the hang out of it. I am delightful. I am effervescent. I am fabulous. I am heavenly. I am idolized. I am just wonderful. I am a kindred spirit. I am lovable. I am momentous. I am never,never indolent. And it goes on to z. And if they do it again, then they have to use another synonym. They can't use adorable any more. Now the children will say to a new student, I know why you don't behave. Coz I'm tired of telling Ms. Collins how wonderful I am. Now she is wonderful. Here is her book. Now for all those-- I know that there are quite a few of you who are interested in teaching, and there's one book you want to read. It's this. For all those of you who are interested in leadership and there's one book you want to read. It's this. For all those of you who are or are interested in the future of becoming parents,and there's one book you want to read. It's this. For all the rest of you, if there's one book you want to read. So what's her message? First of all, she herself is the message as a role model. And she studied with her kids,role models. They read fiction books. They read historical books. They read books about heroes and talk about heroes. They all identify role models. They identify role models in their neighborhood, in their families,constantly doing that, which is exactly what you need to cultivate resilience. First and foremost,she herself is the role model. She has high expectations. We are going to do a lot of believing in ourselves. We are going to do well,succeed. She expects a lot.She sees the potential. She appreciates that potential in each individual. Stop blaming others. Take responsibility for your life. Marva Collins is no push-over. If you see her in the classroom,she is tough. She is demanding. At the same time,she respects each individual. She is not one of the Pollyannish "feel-good", "let's make them all feel good" at all cost. Not at all. She believes in them.She respects them. And she is tough and demanding-- important combination for leadership. It's why I mentioned earlier in the context of great leadership book. There are many very nice ex-CEOs whose primary aim was to be nice and to be liked, the keys to get the job done, to get the work done, while being respectful. Sense of optimism. You can do well. You are going to do well, helping them set goals for themselves and for community. And finally, from focusing on deficiencies to focusing on strength. Howard Gardner from the ED(Education) school here talks about multiple intelligences,says that we need to stop asking whether or not a student is smart. What we need to ask is what is the student smart at. And when we identify what that student is smart at, strong at,virtuous at,good at,then we appreciate it. And when we appreciate it, it and the whole person appreciates. What would happen to a seed-- seed is potential-- flower,tree-- what would happen to a seed, if it is not watered,if no light is shed on it? It will wither and die. The exact same thing with human potential. If we don't water it,if we don't shed a light on it, it will wither and die. The same with interpersonal relationship potential. If we don't-- we'll talk a lot about relationships: how to cultivate healthy long-term relationships-- if you don't water it,if you don't shed light, if you don't appreciate the good,the good will depreciate. Essentially, what Marva Collins does is create for students-- what the research in resilience does is create a very different model than the conventional wisdom. The paradigm shift essentially is from being a passive victim because the government is not putting enough money, which is an issue,not belittling it. It's important to have those external affect the internal like more resources. But that's not enough. From an inactive,from a passive victim, she changes her perspective to be an active agent. You are not "unteachable". You can thrive. You can do well.You can succeed. And what she does,essentially, is take them to the extreme of continuum,because every event, every person can be situated somewhere along this continuum, I mean different places with different things. Think about your own life. What are you, passive victim in different situations or an active agent? For example,let's say my girlfriend leaves me. I know when I was an undergrad here. This was top on my mind: girlfriends leaving me. Yes. We'll talk about that later in this semester when we get to know one another a little bit better. I'm a little bit shy at this point. But let's say my girlfriend leaves me. If I am the passive victim,what I experience is self-pity. Feel sorry for myself. ruminate-- remember the word? Ruminate about the situation and how terrible it is. From a passive victim,I then move to blame: she's terrible; it's her fault; I blame her; I blame my parents,the way they raise me; I blame her parents; I blame President Bush or whomever. And after I blame,I experience frustration as well as anger. Anger toward her,toward my parents,her parents, President Bush,Hilary,whoever it is. I feel anger. And results-- very few results. Because I wallow in illumination and self-pity. Let's take the other extreme of the active agent. First of all,by definition,I take action. I take responsibility. I go on to places after experiencing the pain-- it's painful,and next time we are going to talk about the importance of experiencing the pain of giving ourselves what I called the permission to be human, but once I experience it,I take action. I go out there to places where I will meet someone. I go to Pinnochio's (Pizza place at Harvard). Or another meeting place,the Stax in Whitener (?). Well I guess things have changed at Harvard since I was an undergrad. I take responsibility for it. And then as a result of that-- and we'll talk about research on self-perception theory, research by Daryl Bem. We'll talk a lot about it. You don't need to write it down now. I'll take action and action will increase our level of confidence And then more hope and optimism is a result. As we talk about belief in self-fulfilling prophecy lecture, hope and optimism become a self-fulfilling prophecy. I'm much more likely to find someone. I'm certainly much more likely to be happy. Once again,being an active agent does not mean not giving ourselves the time, the space,the permission to experience painful emotions, to go through the emotion. Yes,by all means,we go through it. However, what it is also saying is that we need to find the right time-- it could be immediately,it could be a day or two later-- to take action,to take responsibility,to do things so that our confidence levels in our hope and optimism increase. I want to just say a few things about this idea of being an active agent and responsibility. It applies to your life here at Harvard. It is up to you. It is your responsibility to make the most out of your Harvard experiences. It is your responsibility to make the most out of this class. We,the teaching staff, are certainly going to create conditions for it. We are going to support you in every way that you need. However,ultimately, it's your responsibility to do it in section. It's your responsibility to make it. One of the first questions that you'll be asking question in section next week when they start to meet is "how can you make this an excellent section?" "What can you do?" "what can you bring? What strength can you bring into the section so that it's an excellent section?" As opposed to blaming,other students,TF,Bush,Clinton,whoever Taking responsibility for it. There is a wonderful story about responsibility in the book by Nathaniel Branden. We are going to read some stuff by Nathaniel Branden when we talk about self-esteem. Nathaniel Branden talks about six pillars six important pillars in self-esteem. One of those pillars is self-responsibility. People who have high self-esteem take responsibility. People who want to cultivate high self-esteem and create confidence,take responsibility for their lives and so on. So in his workshop,one of the main things that he says there in his book is that understanding that you have to take responsibility for your life is recognizing understanding that no one is coming. No one is coming to-- the knight in shining armour who will take you to the happily-ever-after land. No one is coming to make your life better for you. No one is coming. You are responsible for your life,for your self-confidence, for your self-esteem,for your happiness. No one is coming. So he was talking about this in one of his workshops that's a three-day workshop. And this was already on the third day and the workshop was going well. The participants were getting a lot out of it. And he said,he told them about this idea that no one is coming. And one of the participants raises his hand and says, "Dr. Branden,that's not true." And Nathaniel Branden asks him,"What do you mean?" And he says, "Dr. Branden,you came",to which Branden responded, "Yes,I came. But I came to tell you that no one is coming." No one is coming. It's up to you to make the most out of this experience, 1504,your sections,your Harvard experiences and beyond. And we,as the teaching staff, can't wait to create the right conditions for that to happen. See you on Thursday. 



 Chapter 2: 幸福是一种随机现象吗？


Good morning,everyone. This semester has started,officially today. Glad to see you here. Just a couple of announcement and also hi to the extension school students. Last time we say hi to New Zealand. Today we are saying hi to Ireland. In terms of sectioning for the undergrads and graduate students here, you'll get an email from Sean Achor tomorrow. And you'll put in your section preference. We are sectioning this weekend. So it will be important that you submit your top preferences. And next week we are starting. Last time,if you remember the question that we ask, the guiding question was "why positive psychology?" And I mentioned three reasons, Why we need it as an independent field as opposed to just being "well,let's do some studies on happiness,on relationships" as it is always being done? The reason why we need positive psychology is to shift the pendulum from the 21:1 ratio that we have today: for every one study on depression or anxiety, we have 21 studies on-- sorry, for one study on happiness or wellbeing, we have 21 studies on depression and anxiety. We want to shift the pendulum slightly. And I mentioned three reason why we want to shift this pendulum despite the fact that there are rising levels of depression around the world, that anxiety has become epidemic globally— on college campuses in United States,China,Australia,UK. Despite that fact,I argue that we need to shift the pendulum and do more "positive research",or in other words, research that focuses on what works. And the reason is— the first reason that we gave and we are just finishing up is because the question that we ask, whether it's the research questions that we ask, or the questions that we ask of ourselves, or our partners,matter. And if our only questions, or primarily our questions are "what is not working? What is the problem? Why are so many kids failing as a result of their circumstances?" If we only ask these questions, we will miss,literally miss an important part of reality, just like you missed the children on the bus in the exercise. Most of you did. And if we also ask the positive question, then some new possibilities,new quests open up, just like they did for the researchers when they started to ask no longer "why do so many individuals fail?" but started to ask "what do some individuals do and succeed? Why do some individuals succeed despite the unfavorable circumstances?" And then we have the story of Marva Collins, who exemplifies so many of themes that we'll talk about throughout the course. What Marva Collins did was help her students shift from the passive victim— you are victims of your circumstances, of your upbringing,neighborhood,country, whatever it is—from a passive victim to an active agent. Yes,it's difficult. It's tough. It's unfair. However,it's your responsibility. No one is coming. It's up to you to make that difference in your life. And she made a difference to thousands of people's lives and continues to do so. In other words,if we look at the case of Chicago school system where Marva Collins was teaching,the conventional, traditional question was-- if you remember— "how can we keep these students in school for as long as possible? How can we keep them in school beyond the age of 10 or 12 so that they don't join street gangs? So that they are not hurt by drugs or crime?" "How can we keep them safe at school?"— An important question to ask. However,not enough. Marva Collins comes along and reframes the question. And her question becomes "how can we cultivate the seed of greatness in our student?" And that,once again,made all the difference, because she saw the seed of greatness in each student. She saw the strength,the virtues in each single student. A seed,a strength,a virtue,a competence that other teachers did not see, because they did not ask this question; because they asked,metaphorically speaking, "how many geometric shapes do you see on the screen?" And they completely missed the children on the bus. They completely missed the seed of greatness. And when we don't see the seed of greatness, when we don't water it and shed a light on it, it withers and dies, which is unfortunately the fate of most human potential. Wherever we go,that is the fate of most human potential— interpersonally,relationships,in most organizations, in most universities,in most individuals. Questions make a difference, which is why it is also important to ask the positive psychology question, which is the salutogenic question: "What is source of health? What is the source of success? What is the source of wellbeing?" So that's the first reason. The second reason— before I go to the second reason, if Marva Collins is here today, here's the question she would be asking us: "How can we cultivate the seed of greatness in ourselves and families, in our communities and organizations, in our nation and in our world?" When we ask this question-- this very important question, suddenly we see possibilities that we didn't see before. Second reason for having positive psychology's field of study and focusing on what works and focusing on research in happiness,relationships and wellbeing is because happiness does not spontaneously rise when take unhappiness away. Now happiness and unhappiness,or happiness and neurosis, psychosis and depression,are interconnected,of course. It's very difficult to be happy if we are experiencing severe depression or anxiety. So they are certainly interconnected. However, just getting rid of the anxiety and the depression will not in and of itself make us happy, which is the conventional wisdom today, which is the conventional wisdom of many psychologists practicing psychologies— "Well,let's just get rid of that depression and everything will be fine." It won't. The analogy to explain this is think about the ability to enjoy food. A gourmet meal. Now if we have indigestion,it's very difficult to enjoy food. So yes,we first need to get rid of the indigestion. However,that in and of itself does not guarantee us that we enjoy food. We have to go out and eat the gourmet food to enjoy it. Just getting rid of indigestion is not sufficient. We need the next step. In many ways you can look at most of our experiences, psychological effective experiences on a continuum, where some of them fall below the zero, the negative experiences or the painful experiences and the positive or the pleasurable experiences between the zero and the positive. Neurosis,anger,anxiety,depression,psychosis— to name a few-- on the negative side,the painful side; wellbeing,satisfaction,joy,excitement,happiness on the other side which is the side of positive psychology studies. Again,getting rid of the negative does not guarantee us the positive, which is why already in the 1840s, David Henry Thoreau (should be Henry David Thoreau), wrote that most men lead lives of quiet desperation. It's Ok. There's nothing really wrong. But it's just somewhere there in the words of Pink Floyd "people are comfortably numb". Comfortably numb. Not enough. How can we get beyond that "comfortably numb"? How can we get beyond that "quiet desperation"? To excitement,to joy,to happiness? In order to do that,we need to cultivate these traits. Once again,they don't spontaneously emerge once the painful experiences go away. And that is why we need positive psychology. Positive psychology essentially focuses on the health model, Salutogenesis. What is the source of health,physical,psychological,emotional? How do we get people to flourish,intellectually,emotionally, psychologically,interpersonally,intra-personally? How do we get them to thrive beyond just getting rid of what is not working in their lives? And under that model we see,to extremes on many levels. Here,the first level: do we focus on weaknesses, which is the disease model,say let's get rid of weaknesses? Or do we focus on strength? While you ask people this question, and this was done by the Gallup organization. A poll-- global poll, whether it's in Japan,China,United States or Europe: most people think that it's more important to focus on their weaknesses if they are to succeed. Big mistake. The people who focus primarily,not only-- remember the "also"— who shift the pendulum,who focus more on their strength, are not only happier,they are also,on the long run, more successful. It applies to leadership as well. Positive psychology says let's focus also on our strength at least as much. In an organization,as well as on the individual level, are we focusing most on overcoming deficiencies or building the competencies— what we are good at-- and getting better at it? What our natural inclination,individually or organizationally— do we focus on that and then build on that? Again,tie to success as well as wellbeing, if we are more toward the positive side. How do we live our lives? Running away from painful experiences? Or actively seeking pleasure? Running away from unhappiness? Or adhering to the Declaration (Declaration of Independence) and pursuing happiness? Now that may look quite similar-- for example, someone may be working 80 hours a week, running away from something-- running away from issues at home, running away from dealing intra-personal issues and then may look exactly the same as the person who works 80 hours a week and who's extremely passionate about what she does. May look the same but from the inside,they feel very different. One is the disease model: let's run away from what is not working. The other is the health model: let's pursue my passions,what I love to do. The disease model,the optimum level is the zero: let's just be Ok; let's just not hurt. And again,that's important to get rid of hurt. It's important to get rid of depression. But with the health model,they are saying that's not enough; let's go beyond that. Let's go to the excitement,to the fun. Because the ideal is not just a tensionless state. It is the creative tension. We'll talk about it. We'll read about it. When we do "flow". Flow is the state where we are excited, where we are engaging what we are doing, where it's much more than being "comfortably numb". In fact,it's a little bit uncomfortable. It's being outside of our comfort zone. It's being in our stretch zone— not the panic zone,where it hurts-- the stretch zone, where there is excitement,where there's some nervousness. There is also growth there. So what do you want? Where do you want to go? What do you want to pursue? Do you want to run away from pleasure-- run away from pain? Do you want to run away from unhappiness? Or do you want to pursue happiness and pleasure? Do you want to focus primarily on your deficiencies or your weaknesses? Or your strength? What is the optimum? what is the ideal? Is there a glass ceiling-- the zero? Or can it go on and on— more excitement,more enjoyment,more passion? Now there's something frightening about the health model. Because there is no limit and there is less prescription there certainly today than in the disease model. Positive psychology, the field of health psychology is in infancy. There's much more research, much more advice on how to get rid of depression and how do I pursue my strength. But fortunately,again,this is why positive psychology as a network of scholars applying themselves to these ideas and ideals. It's so important because today you'll see throughout the semester that there are so many more tools that we can apply to our lives, to go beyond the zero. That's not all. So I said there are three reasons. It's about where we focus,focus creates reality; it's about happiness is not just a negation of unhappiness; the third reason why positive psychology is important is because positive psychology and the areas that we study and more importantly, apply within the field of positive psychology, do not just take us from the zero to the positive. They also help us deal with the negative. They help us deal with anxiety, depression and painful experiences and emotions. When we cultivate the positive, we are essentially focusing on prevention. Let me explain. What has been found over the last 10 years and a little bit longer is the most effective way of actually dealing with a rising levels of depression in our culture, with individual depression or anxiety is actually not to focus on the depression and anxiety directly— that is important as well. It is found that the most effective way of dealing with this phenomenon was actually to cultivate the positive,to cultivate personal strengths, to cultivate and identify one's passions, to ask a question such as "what is meaningful to me in my life? What's my purpose? Why am I here? What do I really,really want to do once I graduate?" People who ask these questions and spend time on these questions, are much more likely to begin a quest that is not the avoid of painful emotions— no quest is— but the quest is more enjoyable,more pleasurable, more meaningful and also,more successful as it turns out. But more importantly,more successful in what I call the "the ultimate currency"— just as the currency of happiness and wellbeing. The reason is because there are two different approaches to deal with illness: one,the positive psychological approach is that the illness is the absence of health, as opposed to health is the absence of illness. I mean,think about the disease model. The disease model is "we are sick because we are ill"— do you listen to that? We are sick because we are ill. That was very profound. You should think about it for a while here. I'll let a time just to marinate it little bit so that you can. Let me start that again. If we take away the illness,then we become healthy. That's the model,the conventional model. Take away the illness. You'll become healthy. It's good. The positive psychological model is slightly different. It is "you are ill because you don't have enough health in your life, because you are not pursuing those things that make you healthy". And what make you healthy? The things I spoke about before: pursuing meaning,purpose; cultivating healthy relationships. If we don't have these things,that's when the illness comes in. Now the difference between the two models, the health model and the disease model is more than just semantic. Here is Abraham Maslow talking about neurosis, "Neurosis is a falling short of what one could have been and even one could say,of what one should have been, biologically speaking that is if one had grown and developed in an unimpeded way. Human and personal possibilities have been lost. The world has been narrowed and so has consciousness. Capacities have been inhibited." Let me explain what he means here. What he means is that we are ill because we do not cultivate what we are about enough. We do not become self-actualized. We don't do what we are supposed to do. We diminish ourselves and that's when we become ill. That's when we are unwell. This is very different from the disease model that says, "Ok,you are unwell. Deal with that illness." What he's saying: "No. You are unwell. Focus on your health. Strengthen your health. Because you are ill, because you are not focusing enough on your health." He calls that,and I quote, "a failure of personal growth". That's when we experience neurosis. When we don't cultivate ourselves enough, we don't cultivate our relationships enough,that's when we fail. And what the positive psychology is all about is precisely that— cultivating personal growth,working on the positive. And we work on the positive on what comes of this side of the graph that you saw up there. On the positive side,when we cultivate these things, it also helps us deal much better with the negative when dead arises. I want to quote Martin Seligman, who talks about precisely this idea: "In the last decade psychologists have become concerned with prevention. How can we prevent problems like depression or substance abuse or schizophrenia in young people who are genetically vulnerable or who live in worlds that nurture these problems? How can we prevent murderous schoolyard violence in children who have access to weapons,poor parental supervision, and a mean streak?" Now he's asking this question and the disease model response to this is we need to help them deal directly with depression, with their anxiety and with their unhappiness so that we can prevent all these social ills— whether it's violence,whether it's unhappiness. What he's saying here is the following: "What we have learned over fifty years is that the disease model does not move us closer to the prevention of these serious problems. Indeed the major strides in prevention have largely come from a perspective focused on systematically building competency,not correcting weakness." In other words,the health model: let's work on competencies. Let's work on strength. Let's work on relationship. Let's help them identify something meaningful in their life, their passion. And that's how we will,over time, also help what comes off on the negative side. Health model versus the disease model that goes directly to deal with the disease. Now again,Seligman is not saying "to the exclusion of"; he's saying "also". He continues, "We have discovered that there are human strengths that act as buffers against mental illness: courage,future-mindedness,optimism,interpersonal skill, faith,work ethic,hope,honesty,perseverance, the capacity for flow and insight,to name several. We'v e shown that learning optimism prevents depression and anxiety in children and adults, roughly halving their incidence over the next 2 years. Similarly,I believe that if we wish to prevent drug abuse in teenagers who grow up in a neighborhood that puts them at risk, the effective prevention is not remedial. Rather,it consists of identifying and amplifying the strengths that these teens already have." It's exactly what Marva Collins did: focused on the health and cultivated it, watered it and shed a light to it,realized it. We'll talk about all these ideas throughout the course. What health model does— this is the theme we go through all the course is cultivate capacity. It cultivates the capacity to deal with the negatives when these arrive— whether it's negative and painful experiences in relationships, or in ourselves. What does that mean? Let me draw two analogies. Cultivating capacity is about creating a strong psychological immune system. These are the words of Nathaniel Branden. Psychological immune system. What happens when we have a strong physical immune system? Does it mean we don't get ill? Of course not. We do. But it means that we get ill less often and when we do get sick, we recover more promptly. This is exactly what cultivating strength, optimism,sense of purpose,meaning,mindfulness— this is exactly what these characteristics do. They enlarge transform— the way we see,the way we experience the world, enlarge the capacity of the form and that's we are better able to deal the inevitable difficulties. And there are inevitable difficulties. No life is completely immune to those. So it strengthens our immune system. And another analogy we can use is of an engine. If we have a small engine, and we have to pull the car up a steep hill,a difficult hill, the engine is more likely to collapse,to blow up. Whereas If our engine is large, we are much more likely to get up that hill, and to do it gracefully with relative ease. So what we are doing: we cultivate the positive; we are strengthening our,metaphorically speaking, psychological "engine"; and we are better able to deal with the negative to zero, not to mention the fact that we are also able to become happier. Because happiness does not just come spontaneously when we negate unhappiness. I want to go back to our local village. So remember last time I put up the article by the Crimson (Harvard Crimson magazine) that was unfortunately I couldn't find a more recent one-- that was 2004? But the situation is rather similar today. And one of the things that the Crimson article said is that we need to put more resources into mental health at Harvard. And that's important,I agree. However,it's only part of the picture. in some different places as well-- not only,as well. Because it's just not enough to put these resources in places that help us deal with our depression and anxiety and unhappiness directly. It is also important to put these resources in places that help us cultivate capacity, the capacity to deal with these difficulties and hardships when they arise and they will arise. In other words,there has to be more resources put in places such as helping students identify their passions when they come here, helping students identify their sense of meaning in life, helping students identify what they really,really,really want to do, helping students overcome the pull, the external pull that is often there, taking them away from their core, helping them chip away those limitations, those voices,helping students identify who they really are, helping students identify their strengths and pursuing those while here at Harvard. All these capabilities, all these skills or skills that are mostly— and I'm not just talking about Harvard— globally-- not taught in schools. And we need to teach them. This is not to say that what is going at Harvard with numerous resources that we do have here is not important. It is very important. Just take a small example: the Bureau of Study Counsel. I don't know how many of you have used that resource. I've used it as an undergrad. I still use it now,doing some work with them. I did some work with them last year. And they are wonderful. And at the same time,we also need to cultivate the positive, to think more of the zero to the positive side of the equation as well. And this is what positive psychology does and I hope this is what 1504 to some extent will help do. To summarize, "the message of the positive psychology movement is to remind our field that it has been deformed. Psychology is not just the study of disease,weakness,and damage it also is the study of strength and virtue, Treatment is not just fixing what is wrong; it also is building what is right. Psychology is not just about illness or health; it is about work,education,insight,love,growth,and play. And in this quest for what is best, positive psychology does not rely on wishful thinking, self-deception,or hand waving; instead,it tries to adapt what is best in the scientific method to the unique problems that human behavior presents in all its complexity." It's about bridging the Ivory tower and the Main Street in the area that I believe is the most important one and talks to each and every one of us. I want to move on now. I want to move on to the next selective lectures— two or two and a half lectures, where I am going to be talking about the basic premises of this course. As I said earlier, this course is not a survey course of positive psychology. It's very selective. It's about the question of questions. What can help us individuals, what can help our community become happier-- not happy,happier. So by the end of these three months semester, you are happier than you were before. You are from now,you'll be hopefully happier than you were at the end of the semester. And so on and so on. So what are the basic premises? Where am I coming here when I think about this course? Well what I want to do is to share with you the five basic premises. And these premises are going to be presented as something and— essentially it's opposite. So that were clear from the outset: where we are coming from,where I am coming from, where the teaching staff is coming from— and also so that we can build the foundation of the course. Remember I talk those of you who were here the first time: this course is built like a spiral Everything is intra-connected, what I talked about in the first class is connected to what I'm going to talk about today, is going to be connected to lecture 19. So in many ways the premises, coupled with what we discussed in the first two lectures, build the foundation of that spiral, upon which everything else will be built. So here are the five basic premises. I'll go through them briefly now and elaborate on each in the next couple of lectures,interweaving them with studies,research as well as applications. First,this course as I mentioned first is about bridge building: bridge building among disciplines,eclectic, and bridge building in terms of academia and Main street. the specialization is very often dominant in academia. The approach of this course, with all its challenges,is the opposite. Once again I wouldn't be teaching this class, if I didn't change is possible. There is a lot of research in psychology, a lot of evidence that shows how difficult change is. So I will argue that change is possible, whether it's individual change, organizational change. And we'll start to look at how it's possible. Just the very basic level of the spiral. We have an entire week just devoted to change. We will elaborate on that: techniques,methods,tools. Third,premise related to the first internal factors primarily determine happiness— this is what I'm going to argue for— is opposed to happiness which is primarily function of external circumstances. Not saying that the external circumstances are not important, we should focus also on improving them,bettering them, whether for ourselves,for society at large. However,happiness primarily— not only,primarily—is dependent on how we perceive the world, on the form,on our interpretation,on our perception. Human nature must be obeyed This,in many ways, captures conflict that has gone throughout human history, whether you look at politics,whether you look at religion, whether you look at philosophy as well as today,psychology. How do we look at human nature? Is human nature flawed and therefore needs to be perfected? Or is human nature flawed maybe something we don't like but we need to accept it and work with it? I'm going to argue for the latter of what I just said, for the fact that human nature needs to be obeyed with all its flaws,with all its shortcomings, as opposed to attempting to perfect it on the psychological level. We'll get to that next time. Controversial, the very important foundation of mental health and wellbeing. And finally, what I am going to argue for is that happiness isn't ought to be the ultimate end which we pursue and that is also a moral claim, as opposed to happiness just being another secondary pursuit and there are pursuits— there are higher,more important,more moral than that. Once again,may sound controversial. I'll try reconcile the disease, the unhappiness that you may experience thinking about that. Again,more on that next time. So let me begin with bridge building. Here I am going back to what I talked about right at the very beginning of the first lecture. The idea of bridging Ivory tower and Main Street. There are many people in academia,outside academia, who divide the world essentially into two. They talked about the real world that is outside, that is dirty,impure,profane versus academia, which is lofty,idealistic,sacred. Sacred versus the profane. This distinction hurts. It hurts academia and hurts people who are outside of academia. Alfred North Whitehead,the philosopher: "The careful shielding of a university from the activities of the world around us is the best way to chill interest and to defeat progress. Celibacy does not suit a university. It must mate itself with action." This is very important for university. talked about a second psychology. He said second psychology is a psychology that leaves the labs that draws on the research done in the labs that is important and meaningful, however,doesn't only focus on that. It goes out to the outside world, interacts,gets its hand and mind dirty, does work outside and then applies its work and learns from "the dirty experiences" and brings it back to the lab and so on and so on in an upward spiral. He called it the important second psychology, which is what Alfred North Whitehead is also talking about. Now you may be sitting here and most of you aren't going to academia. And you are thinking to yourself, "Ok,fine. So university,academia must make itself with action. What does it have to do with me? How is this relevant to me?" Not only is it relevant to you,it has everything to do with you. And here's why. What the world needs, more than anything else,is practical idealists. For 6 years,I was a resident tutor in Leverett House when I was a graduate student and then I also started to teach. And what struck me most about conversations that I had, either in Leverett or other houses, were students is their sense of mission,your sense of mission, your desire to do good, to make the world a better place. And as I followed many of the students after they graduate, whether the students who work with me here as undergrads or students who I tutored, when I followed the path,it wasn't just empty words. These students went ahead and did wonderful things, whether it was right out of college, whether it was once they established themselves, but there was always this,the back of their mind, very often fore of their minds, "How can I make this world a better place?" Passionate. Idealistic. Good-- in the deep sense,good. This desire to make a difference come into just about all students. There are many people who talk about this generation as the "ME" generation: all I care about, all this generation cares about is "well,let me just make more money", "let me just get a bigger house", "let me just be more successful and accrue more eclats, more prestige". This is a false stereotype. Yes,eclats,prestige,money is important. It's important to most people in the world. A big deal. But were these people who have these stereotypes— were they (?) is that they see just that? And they don't see the desire to make a difference. 1800 students at Harvard each year, about 1800 students are members of PBHA (Phillips Brooks House Association). That's not all. There are other students who outside PBHA and who volunteer. Just about every single one of you. At least if we look at the statistics, just about every single one of you, very soon, after you leave Harvard,will join an organization, whether--it could be your primary job or not— an organization that is a social enterprise, not for profit,something to better the world. You'll be on boards of such organizations. You'll donate money to such organizations. Harvard grads are generous with their time, with their money,with their efforts, whether the business school,the law school, college,Med school,Ed school— you give a lot,because you care. Again whether it's money,whether it's time-- usually both. False stereotypes. There are also false stereotypes about Americans. Americans,empirically speaking— just empirically speaking about the Harvard students, looking the trends and statistics-- empirically speaking, Americans are the most generous people in the world. Not just because they have more money to give, yes,Americans have more money to give and they give a lot more money, whether it's in food,whether it's in medical aid. Americans also spend the most time-- this is a research done (?)— Americans spend the most time out of any other people in the world volunteering in average four hours a week, volunteering outside their job which may also have a social objective more than any other people in the world. Once again,false stereotypes about this wonderful country. And this is wonderful. This is wonderful to see,wonderful to be here, whether it's Harvard,whether it's America-- a real privilege. You see,many of you, not far from now,you will be in influential positions. Will you be able to do a lot of good in a for-profit organization,not for profit organization, on the board of your previous school, with your money,with your time? However— and here is the however— I've met many grad students with me or students when I was a tutor who express their frustration to me. They said to me,"You know, I had all the good intentions in the world. I have all the good intentions in the world. I want to do good. I've donated my time,my money. But I feel that something is missing. I feel that I've fallen short of my potential to really make a difference." Why? Because good will and idealism, while necessary,they are not sufficient. Not enough. Because very often,with very good intentions, we may fall short of what we are capable of doing, or in some situations,even hurt more than help. And we'll look at some of these studies, hopefully still today, with very good intentions actually hurt more they helped. Psychologists for decades had very good intentions about helping at risk population. A lot of money-- millions,millions of dollars went into that. With very little effect. Why? Because they didn't ask the question that they needed to ask,which was,in that particular case, the salutogenic question: why do some individuals succeed despite unfavorable circumstances? There were very good intentions before this question was asked. There was a lot of idealism. It wasn't enough. Very often,some of these interventions engendered the passive victim mentality, as opposed to the active agent mentality that Marva Collins instilled, the programs by Karen Reivich and Martin Seligman instill. And this is where psychology can help. Because we can take the research and apply it. We can take the research and apply it, which goes back to the point why it is so important to bridge Ivory tower and Main Street. Most of these research is not applied. So for example: how many teachers working in the classroom day in and day out know about the Pygmalion effect? The Pygmalion effect that we are going to talk about next week or the week after, shows how teachers' expectations are self-fulfilling prophecies. And if we have high expectations, if we see the seed of greatness in the students, that seed of greatness is more likely to flourish. Or if we don't appreciate it, it will depreciate—wither and die. How many teachers know about these studies? And how they create through their beliefs the self-fulfilling prophecy when it comes to their students? How many teachers know about Marva Collins? Every teacher in the world on the first day of teacher training need to learn about Marva Collins and Pygmalion effect. They don't do that. How about this? Self-esteem. How do you increase self-esteem? If I have to do a poll here,most people, guaranteed,would say praise people. Praise people. Praise children. It will enhance their self-esteem. Right. Partially right. And if it's taken as the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,it's detrimental. Because there is a lot of research that shows when we praise people indiscriminately, we are actually in the long run potentially hurting them more than helping them, whether it's their wellbeing,as well as their success. But the self-esteem movement mostly says praise people,praise children all the time. And again,that's important. But it's also important to know how to praise. How many people are familiar with the work of the Stanford psychologist,Carol Dweck. Well,you are going to be familiar with it in a few weeks. Many idealists with good intentions are not. And they continue to support or to practice self-esteem as indiscriminate praise, ultimately hurting more than helping. How many psychologists,or rather how many interventionists with good intentions are familiar with the work of Albert Bandura on self-efficacy? And how you cultivate that? Not enough. And very often,more harm than good is created. How many psychologists are familiar with this new emerging field of the mind and the body? How many know about the studies that cheerful example that yoga practice diminishes significantly, more than any other interventions that they tried, the likelihood of second-time offenders when they practice it in jail? After their release,they are much less likely to return to jail if they do some yoga there. Strange,but true. How many people know that— and this is connected to my first point— that doing meditation actually literally transforms our brain, making us more susceptible to positive emotions and more resilient in the face of painful emotions. How many people know that three times a week physical exercise,30 minutes each time has the same effect as our most powerful psychiatric drugs? Three times a week for 30 minutes. How many psychologists or psychiatrists prescribe "run three times a week and see me in the morning"? Not enough. That's practical idealism coupled together. How are in conflict resolution, the dominant theme of most people with good intentions want to resolve conflict is let's get the people together, let's get them to talk, and they and we will live happily ever after. Well we have research from 1954— those of you who take social psych—Muzafer sherif, showing that the contact hypothesis which is just get people to talk to one another, doesn't work; in fact very often it worsens the situation— very often the conflict actually gets worse as a result of just getting together and talking, that the contact is not enough, that what you need, in the words of Muzafer sherif and later elaborated on by Elliot Aronson— what you need is a superordinate goal— a goal that you have carry out together, that you cannot do by yourself— carry out together with a conflicting group. And that's how over time you resolve conflicts, not just bring people together. Now as you can imagine,this is very close to home for me. Because there were many people on both sides of the Arab/Israeli conflict who wanted to end it, many people in this country who wanted to end it. So what did they do? Let's just get them together. Let's get them in a room, whether it was in Camp David,whether it was in Oslo or in Egypt. Let's just get them together to talk,to resolve their conflict and their issue and then we will all live happily ever after. What happened? The situation worsened. Now we've known that. Muzafer sherif showed that in 1954 that it is the most likelihood outcome of just contact hypothesis,just getting them to be together. And there were many people trying to resolve the conflict, not just in the Middle East,else in the world, with very good intentions but very often making inadvertently the matters worse. Idealism and good intentions are not enough. We need to merge,to mate the research with the practice. And this is where you come in, taking it seriously. Now when I take it seriously, there is a problem here because sometimes research doesn't deliver good news. It would be much easier and nicer if we could just simply get Israelis and Arabs together and the conflict would end. It would be much nicer and easier,smoother, it would be much easier, if we could just cultivate children self-esteem by giving them positive feedback— telling them how wonderful they are. It's easy to do,right? It feels good. They feel good. We feel good. But in the long run,it doesn't help,if it's only that. Much easier. And research very often delivers bad news, saying it's not enough-- the contact; it's not enough to praise. And then people choose subconsciously, not consciously to ignore the research and go with her heart. And that's important to go with your heart. But it's important to with the heart and the mind. Imagine if an aeronautics engineer woke up in the morning and said, "you know,the Law of Gravity thing really makes things difficult for me. It's a pain. Things would be so much easier without the law of gravity. The design would be simpler." And he designs airplane and he ignores the law of gravity. What kind of airplane machine would he or she design? A failure. Aeronautics engineer takes into consideration of reality. And reality-- there's Law of Gravity. We deal with that. Similarly,what research shows us is reality: what's out there,what's working and what's not working. And we need to conform to it. Take it into consideration. And it's up to you,to take responsibility, to bridge the Ivory tower and Main Street. You are being exposed in 32 classes fraught your Harvard career to the most rigorous thinking on different topics have you take it and apply it, whether it's psychology,whether it's in economics, obviously in engineering or computer science, where it's done much more readily than in social sciences and humanities. It's important to take responsibilities, because no one else is going to do it for you. No one is coming. Premise 2: To be a practical idealist, the foundation of it has to be the belief that change is possible. Because if the change was not possible on the individual level, on the society level,why am I doing what I am doing? Why would I spend time? Let me just be a hedonist, trying to enjoy my life as much as possible. Now for many of you,when you look at this you may say, "Well,Ok,yes,change is possible. I believe that and why do we need to have it as a basic premise of the course, as opposed to change is illusive?" Well,in the context of a psychology course, it's anything but trivial that change is possible. Let me share with you one study to illustrate what I mean. The Minnesota Twin study, one of the most famous studies in the field of psychology, was done by Lykken and Tellegen,two prominent psychologists. And what they did was they wanted to understand how much do genes matter. How much is it about nature versus nurture? So how do you test that? You look at identical twins, monozygotic twins who share the same genetic profile. And you look at those who are reared apart. Because if they are reared by the same parents,one could argue, "Well they came out very similar because same environment: they look the same; they go to the same schools; same parents,and so on." But what if you are able to find identical twins who were separated at birth, and reared in radically different environments. Well you could. And they found significant number of those, reared in,sometimes different continents. And they studied them. And what they found remarkably was significant similarities among these twins, sometimes to the points of unbelievable. Like one set of twins— I think they found the wives with the same name. They were reared in different countries, didn't know about each other until the age of 37— married similar wives,enjoyed drinking the same beer, called their children by the same names. There were some mind-boggling similarities. And this is an exception, but there were quite a few of those exceptions. But more interesting for psychologists was that their personality was incredibly similar. And very interesting for positive psychologists, those concerned with wellbeing and happiness: their wellbeing and happiness levels were incredibly similar. Even if they were raised in radically different environments. Lykken and Tellegen published a paper, a very influential paper in the 80s, which they called "Happiness is a Stochastic Phenomenon". And they end this paper with the following quote: "It may be that trying to be happier is as futile as trying to be taller and is therefore counterproductive." This quote made me very unhappy on two accounts. This wa s a very influential quote. This appeared in New York Times. They talked about on television. They were interviewed. Very problematic. Coz what are we doing here? If this is the outcome of the research, a rigorous research that they did— not an easy research to go and look around the world, what can we do about it? Here is my response to that: Very simply,change is possible. And again,don't take my word for it of course. Let me discuss that further-- elaborate. There is account of evidence where people actually do change and we have research showing that people going to therapy very often change as the a result of therapy. Work by Albert Bandura,Stanford psychologist shows that very often people encountering one special sentence, reading it or hearing it from something, that sentence can change their lives, reading it on certain book,having certain experiences— positive or painful experiences – there is this concept of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). There is also a concept of Post-Traumatic Growth. So people change-- up or down in their level of happiness is a result of their experiences. So there is counter evidentce that shows that not everyone, level of wellbeing is determined by their genes. In fact,there is research that shows yes genes do matter and they matter a lot, as we'll talk about during the week on change. Other things matter as well. And the error that Lykken and Tellegen and many others make when they generalize and say "change is not possible" is what I call "the error of the average". Yes,on average, when you look at this group of 40 or 50 twins reared apart, when you look at the average, they are just about the same. However,that's not looking at the individuals because while many of them are the same, not all are the same. It reminds me of a joke about the statistician who drowned in a pool with an average height of 10 inches. You see you cannot tell the height or the depth rather of a pool based on the average. Because that pool may be average of 10 inches, but maybe it has places that are 20 feet deep, if it's a large pool. The same when you look at the average of individuals and twins. The majority on average,they are extremely similar. But there are also outliers. And very often,it's the outliers, the differences that are the most interesting. Because they stretch— not just our imagination-- they stretch our ability to understand when and where change is possible. The question when we see exceptions, whether it's the Lykken and Tellegen study, where we do see exceptions— not all twins were the same, majority were,but not all— the question is no longer whether or not change is possible, but rather how is change possible. Once again,the exception proves the rule. And the research that argues that it's not possible to change,is detrimental. Think about an eight year old girl, who's very unhappy, and then reads some magazine about that study, saying that basically you are genetically set point what you are born with is there for life. She's unhappy. She feels anxious and miserable as an 8 year old. And she says to herself, "That's it. That's my lot in life. I was born unlucky." And that,very often,becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. And she remains unhappy. Sometimes it even makes her less happy than she was before. Because now she's also helpless. Change is possible. You know I often say that I am the right the person to teach positive psychology. Why? Because I wasn't born with "happy genes". I was born with,genetically speaking, relatively high level of anxiety, inclination toward rumination, over-examination— we'll talk about that later in the course. I went into the positive psychology, into the field of psychology, as I mentioned in the first lecture, because I was unhappy here. And over time,as a result of many of these studies, result of examination result of asking also the right questions, I have become happier. So on a personal level,I know it's possible to become happier. Now I am happier today than I was fifteen years ago when I started. I hope to be happier 15 years from today than I am today. It's a life-long process. But it is possible. And many people show that it's possible. And those who argue it's not possible and use science to argue for that, very often,are hurting more than helping the field. Now by the way Lykken and Tellegen were interviewed recently in TIME magazine issue of happiness. Let me quote to you what they said. This is in 2005-- Lykken: "I made a dumb statement. It is clear that we can change happiness levels,up or down." So they went back on their statement. It was a sensational statement at the time. It certainly is possible. So how do we do research that's more responsible, that does not lead to detrimental results? And at the same time,true. We don't want to invent research. Research is about identifying things that really occur/happen in reality. So one of the first things that I'll argue for in terms of healthy research is "let's also focus on what is working". That's first thing that we discussed in the past lecture. The second thing that I will argue for in addition to studying what works is also to study the best. What do I mean by best? Let's not just study what makes people happy. Let's not just study happy people. Let's not just study happy relationships and good relationships. Let's study the happiest people. Let's study the most successful relationships and learn from that. That is a radically different approach than studying just the average. Because what I am saying here is "let's not study the average", let's study the top five percent so that we can understand the phenomenon better. The person who talks about this is Abraham Maslow. When he talked about "growing-tip" statistics. Let me read to you-- this is taken from his book: "What this kind of research design means is a change in our conception of statistics, and especially of sampling theory. What I am frankly espousing here is what I have been calling "growing-tip statistics," taking my title from the fact that it is at the growing tip of a plant that the greatest genetic action takes place." What he's saying is that "let's study the sages,the saints, the extraordinary people,the arrowhead" so that we can understand and realize the potential in all people. Let me quote him in greater length. This is very important,which is why I am doing it: "If we want to know how fast a human being can run, then it is no use to average out the speed of a "good sample" of the population; it is far better to collect Olympic gold medal winners and see how well they can do. If we want to know the possibilities for spiritual growth, value growth or moral development in human being, then I maintain that we can learn most by studying our most moral,ethical,or saintly people. On the whole I think it fair to say that human history is a record of the ways in which human nuture has been sold short. The highest possibilities of human nature have practically always been underrated. Certainly it seems more and more clear that what we call "normal" in psychology is really a psychopathology of the average, so undramatic and so widely spread that we don't even notice it ordinarily." You see, the implications of what he's saying here? Essentially what he's saying is "let's not just study why do most individuals fail; let's also study why do some-- not many— but why do some individuals succeed despite the circumstances". Let's not study just the average that says that people can't really change. Let's study those people who have changed, who have literally transformed their lives and those lives around them. This is a radical approach to research. This is a radical approach to the search, to studying ourselves as well. Because very often,if we only study the average, we only see the average,we only see the geometric shapes and completely missed the children on the bus. And very often, the answer to some of our most pressing questions lies in the extraordinary— lies on the children on the bus. Now does anyone other than me— because I admit that I fall into this category— but anyone other than me feel a little bit disease when I talk about this? Seriously,a little bit disease when I talk about "let's focus on studying the best— the saint,the sages,the extraordinary"? I feel disease. I'm sure some of you feel that too. Because after all,isn't that elitist? Shouldn't we study the average because we concern not just with elites? We are concerned with the average. So there are two answers to that— why I still maintain,and I must admit I still feel some disease every time I teach this, every time I think about this and I think too, why it is so important to study the best, why the "growing-tip" statistics is such an important approach to research that I encourage my students to carry out. First of all, because it is not to the exclusion of the average. Just like positive psychology does not say "let's exclude what's not working; let's exclude study of pathology". Similarly,"growing-tip" statistics is not saying "let's not study the average". It says "let's also study the best". So this is the first thing to alleviate the concern of elitism. The second issue,the second response is even more important. Because everyone benefits,when we study the best. And the "average"-- whatever that means, the "average" benefits even more than the best of this kind of studies. Why? For example: the study of resilience. We could have gone on and studied the average at-risk population for decades and centuries. And very little advances would have been made. Very little advances were made. It was only when we started to study those "best" examples,those successful kids, those "super" kids as they were initially named. It was only when we started to study those that we actually understood how we can best help that population. And once we applied our studies-- the resilience issue, everyone benefited and continued to benefit from it. That's an example of "growing-tip" statistics research. Or how about the study of meditation? So I want to study how to meditate. Do I go out to Harvard yard and take a random sample of sophomores to study meditation? Or do I go to a mountain top in Tibet and study the people who have been doing it for decades? Of course I go and study them! This is exactly what psychologists did! And they studied their brain— we'll talk about it when we talk about meditation— and they illustrated how their brain is transformed through meditation. Psychologists,like Jon Kabat Zinn, Richard Davidson and Herbert Benson, were able to take what they learned from these extraordinary, best individuals and apply it to other people's lives so that now I benefit from meditation when I do it for 15 minutes or 20 minutes a day. And millions of other people,"the average", benefit a great deal because of the study of the best, of the "growing-tip". How about relationships? Can you imagine a study of relationships throughout human history that focuses on the average? What's the average relationship in human history? The average relationship in human history is one in which the woman is subjugated. That's the average relationship in human history. Now what if we just study that? Would that be helpful? No,it was when people like John Stuart Mill, who studied his relationships which was at the time extraordinary, realized the potential of what all relationships can be that he wrote his book on subjugation of women, one of the most important books of the 19th century that has led to the feminist movement and to the equality movement. What if he only studies the average? Would that help relationships? Not at all. How about teaching? What do you want to do in order to learn about teaching— go and study the average teachers or go and study Marva Collins and then apply what Marva Collins does to all teachers? Everyone benefits when we focus on the tip of stamen— this is why Maslow said human nature and human potential has been sold short, when we only study the average. It's also about studying our personal best, not just other people's best, whether it's our personal best experiences because if we study our best experiences when we are at our happiest, when we are at our most successful, when we thrive the most within the relationship, we can learn from it and apply it to our future as well. When we study our average,we are describing our lives. When we are studying the best within ourselves, we are potentially prescribing. Maslow again: "Few in number though they be, we can learn a great deal about values from the direct study of these highly evolved, most mature,psychologically healthiest individuals, and from the study of the peak moments of average individuals, moments,in which they become transiently self-actualized." If we learn from these experiences in ourselves, the question is no longer whether or not it's possible to experience it more and more in our lives. The question is "how is it possible to experience it". Alright. So we talked about changing ourselves, how it's possible the "growing-tip" statistics which is the second significant idea within research in positive psychology: first significant idea is "let's study what works" the second significant idea is "let's study what works best". But this is about individual change. How about societal change? I want to share with you at the end today a study, one of the most famous studies in the field called "the Cambridge-Somerville Youth Study psychology". This was the study that was run, starting in the 1930s right here between Harvard and MIT, were the best minds— psychological minds,philosophical minds,psychiatrists— got together and said, "let's create the Rolls-Royce—there wasn't a Rolls-Royce then— but best intervention program that we can think of." There was no limit in terms of how much money was put into it. As much as they needed, they got and they chose 250 kids from an at-risk population. And the intervention is not a quick fix, overnight change,"we can" seminar-- five-year intervention. And here is what they got. Twice a month,case workers visited them, helped them deal with the conflicts in the family, helped them deal with issues in their lives. Half of them had academic tutoring,those who needed it— got help,academic help. Psychiatric attention— all those who needed it,they were there. No limits on how much you needed it. Whatever you needed,you got from the best minds in the field. They joined the boy scouts,YMCA, other youth movements,benefited a great deal, supposedly from these experiences. They got everything. This would be a dream treatment— not just in the 1930s,today as well. This is what psychologists dream about at night. Just introduce this. And then measuring outcomes was as serious as the program itself. There was a random assignment— there were 250 kids who got nothing, who were also studied, just like the kids who got the five-year intervention were studied— 250 kids in the control group. 40 years follow-up. This was not just about today,tomorrow for the five years; they followed them through much of their lives. This was serious study. This was serious intervention. And the results were shocking. Even though all those who participated in this study— whether it was the mental health workers, whether it was the philosophers,psychologists, the professors and the psychiatrists— praise the program as the best,as highly effective, when they looked at the raw objective data, the results were shocking. Juvenile offenses: control group versus intervention group-- no difference. Over a third had official records and 20 more percent had unofficial records for misdemeanors. No difference in juvenile offenses. Adult offenses later on in their lives. Again,no difference. Over 20 percent offenses— whether against property or against person— in both groups: the 250 here versus 250 here, which is significant sample size. No difference whatsoever. other measures: physical health and mental health—no difference whatsoever. But finally,there was a significant difference on alcoholism, the number of people who became alcoholic later on in life as well as job status— how many people were able to getting to do "the white collar" jobs. So at least there are results there. At least they found statistically significant results when they came to that. That's good,right? Not at all. Because these results were "in the wrong direction", meaning there were alcoholics in the intervention group than in the control group; there were more people in the control group making it at work "raising their status at work" than in the intervention group. In other words,intervention did more harm than good. Idealism,good intention,a lot of money wasn't practical. Now many people who look at this study— this is a seminal study—very few studies in the history of psychology that were that serious. They say,"well,societal change is probably not possible". Give me one minute and I'll finish. Societal change is not possible,they say. Is it? First of all,there are exceptions and we have exceptions that prove the rule--there are programs that actually work, whether it's the work again of Karen Reivich and Martin Seligman from U Penn,"resilience program", whether it's Marva Collins who's certainly an exception, who shows how interventions work. And it's interesting to think about the difference of what Marva Collins does, or she doesn't give the students in sense of entitlement, or she praises them but she gives them hard love as opposed to free lunch, or she doesn't label them as needy and the study perhaps labeled these kids as needy. There are many differences. But the keys to study this exception and for practical idea is to come together and to say "what is working? Let's study the best; let's study what works and then apply it." Let's spread the word. Let's do what Maslow talked about back in 1950s. What he suggested is "Manhattan-Project-type attacks upon what I consider to be the truly Big Problems of our time, not only for psychology but for all human beings with any sense of historical urgency". The Manhattan Project,when they created the atomic bomb and whether or not you agree with the Manhattan Project normatively. One second. I'm almost done. Positively,what they did there was bring together the best minds Oppenheimer,Zillart,Fermi Feinman,Bore— bring them together with a mission of saving the free world. Again whether you agree or not with the project is beside the point,it was the greatest,positively speaking, scientific project in history where the minds got together. This is what Maslow is suggesting that psychologists do. This is also the aim of positive psychology,no less than this. You get people around the world to think about these problems, these issues-- practical idealists who will study what works, who will study the best and through that,make a difference. I'll see you next week. 



 Chapter 3: 积极的环境能改变人


Hi everybody. We are the Harvard Callbacks We have a special Valentine's Day message dedicated from the teaching staff to the students. I will never find another lover sweeter than you, sweeter than you I will never find another lover more precious than you, more precious than you Coz you are Close to me you're like my mother, Close to me you're like my father, Close to me you're like my sister, Close to me you're like my brother You are the only one my everything and for you this song I sing All my life I pray for someone like you I thank God that I, that I finally found you And I pray that you do love me too Pray that you do love me too Happy Valentine's Day! Hi, morning. You know, when I asked them to dedicate this song, I had a slightly different song in mind. But-- so be it. We do love you. What we are going to talk about today, continuing from last time is or are the basic premises of this course-- where we are coming from, where we are going-- laying down in many ways, the foundation of the spiral that we are going to create for the next semester together. Last time we stopped, we talked about how difficult change is. We talked about the Twin studies that illustrate that what Lykken and Tellegen said-- maybe changing our happiness level is as difficult as-- and futile-- as trying to change our height. And we talked about the error of the average and the mistake that these researchers are making, misunderstanding the nature of change. Because if someone changes, the question is no longer "is it possible to change" but rather "how is it possible to change". And then we talked about the Somerville Cambridge study that show that literally the Rolls-Royce of interventions failed-- 5 years with the leading scientists, researchers, psychiatrists, psychologists from Cambridge, Harvard and MIT, putting their minds and hearts for good intentions to bring about change-- failure. Not only they have failed in bringing about positive change, they actually brought about negative change. Remember?-- Alcoholism rates went up for the intervention group, compared to the control group. The control group that joined no intervention actually were more luckily to advance in their workplace 20, 30 years later. So change is difficult, but then we went over and said, "Well, Marva Collins creates change. So it is possible. Programs by Martin Seligmen and Karen Reivich and numerous others succeeding in bringing about change". And the challenge then is, for us, if our goal is to become practical idealists is to understand what it is that brings about change and then do it. Spread the word. Spread the word about the research. Even if the research doesn't always communicate good news, it's about communicating what works, what is real, as opposed to our dreams , our desires, our hopes, our wishes-- that's not enough. Good will, idealism, good intentions are not enough. We need to be grounded in research. And this is very much what Maslow has in mind when he talked about the analogous Manhattan Project, where scientists, positive psychologists or that time psychologists, social scientists would get together and pick out the tip of the stem-- the few ideas, the few programs that work and then replicate them. Study the best and as one of the students here, Mariam -- came to me after the class and she said, "the tip of the stem is actually about democratizing excellence." I love that phrase. Democratizing excellence-- studying the best and applying it to the rest of us. Ok, so we have this grand scheme, grand idea by Maslow to create a Manhattan-type Project. But what if I'm not interested in going into one of these projects? What if I'm not even interested in becoming an academic? Just want to do things on my own: Can I make a difference? And the answer is absolutely yes. One of the most significant barriers to people doing things in the world, to actually introducing change is that they underestimate their ability to bring about change. There is a lot of research in psychology. Primarily the people who started are Emerson and Moscovici and many others who have done research showing how minority-- very often one person can make a big difference, can make a significant difference. Ralph Waldo Emerson: "All history is a record of the power of minorities, and of minorities of one, "-- a lot to backed that up in social science research. Margaret Mead, the anthropologist: "Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has." All change begins in the mind of single person or a small group." And then it expands. Now the question is "how does it expand" and "why is it so difficult for us to understand, accept, assimilate and live according to the fact that we can make a difference, if we understand that what we need to understand is how change happens. Change happens exponentially. Our connection to other people and their connection to others and so and so create an exponential function which explains for an example-- that those of you are familiar with-- "butterfly effect" how a butterfly flapping its wings in Singapore can theoretically cause a tornado in Florida. Because on particle hits another and another and another. It also explains the phenomenal 6 degrees of separation: how we are all connected and interconnected in a web potentially of goodness. To illustrate the exponential nature of human networks, let's look at smiles. What do we know from research is that smiles are contagious. Someone smiles-- makes you smile. You smile-- you make someone smile. And so on and so on. You know, even some goes pass you on the street and you don't smile ostensibly you don't smile-- there are certain micro-muscles in your face that are moving that actually make you feel better. So smiles are contagious. Now if you smiled to-- or make three people smile, and these three people-- each one makes three other people smile. And those nine people make three-- each one-- three other people smile. Within 20 degrees of separation from you initial smile to the three people, the entire world will be smiling. Exponential nature of social networks. The same with making other people feel good-- complimenting people. If you make three people-- or even better, four people a day feel good and they make-- they pay it forward and make four others feel good, and so on and so on. Within very little time, the whole world will be made to feel better. This is the nature of an exponential function. So smiles and laughters are contagious. And to illustrate, I want to show you a quick video. (Spanish) (The sentence shown on the screen at the end, "Dificil, eh?" means " Difficult, isn't it?") Alright. I have to see this one more time. Sorry. So the theme of the class today is babies. We are going to see another one soon. So let's understand: what is the nature of exponential function so that we can understand the power of one? I'm looking for someone to make a deal with me. Here is the deal: What I am going to do is ask you-- this is all voluntary, you don't have to do it-- here's the deal. I am going to ask you to give me each day-- or rather I'm going to give you, whoever signs the deal with me, 1000 dollars every single day for the next 30 days. And what you will give me in return is on the first day, one cent-- one penny; on the second day, two cents; third day, 4 cents... Every day, twice as much as the previous day, starting with one. Who would like to make this deal with me? Again, every day I give you for the next 30 days 1000 dollars. What you'll do is every day for the next 30 days give me one cent, next day two, four, eight and so on. Anyone? Any takers? One. Looking for some more. So that's 30000 down for me. Anymore? Ok, good. Alright. So here' s the deal. Here is what will happen. On the 30th day, I will give you another 1000 dollars-- you'll have a total of 30000 dollars from me. On the 30th day, I will be getting from you in total, including the first 29 days-- no, rather on the 30th day, I'll be getting from you 5,368,709 dollars and 12 cents. Double that, times by two, this is the money I will be making in one month. One cent on the first, two on the second, and so on. For most people, it seems extraordinary because people don' understand the nature of exponential function and therefore don't understand the nature of the power of one. Here is another example. Just kidding. I'll let you off the hook. Another example. This captured my imagination-- when I was a kid, my dad told me about the invention of the chess game-- some of you know the story. So the inventor of the chess game-- he was in India, and went to the local king. The king was very impressed with the game and said, "How can I reward you?" And the chess player said, "No, it' OK really." The king said, "No. I want to reward you. How can I rewards you?" So the inventor of the chess game said, "Ok. What I like is on the first block, first square, I would like one grain of rice. On the second, I'd like two grains of rice. On the third, four grains of rice and so on and so on. That's my request." And the king said, "Are you sure that's all you want? I'm prepared to give you a lot. This is a wonderful game." And the inventor said, "Yes." So the king told his assistant to go and get the man, give the man his wish. When they started to calculate how much rice would be need to fill up all blocks, all the way to 2 to the power 63. They realized that the rice could fill up the entire world with a thick layer. Again, misleading-- fail to understand it because we don't understand the nature of exponential change. Another-- last one. So how many time do you think-- you all have a piece of paper in front you-- how many time do you think you need to roll over the piece of paper for the piece of paper to reach the moon? The moon, 240000 miles awaya from us. How many times do you need to fold the piece of paper so that you can reach the moon. 41 times. So if you can have a piece of paper here, and you fold it 41 times by the end of the class, you can reach the moon. I don't know why they make such a big deal out of the person landing on the moon. Seems quite simple to me. And here is the point. We underestimate our capacity to affect change. Because we underestimate the growth of exponential function. We are influencing people and the world every minute of our lives. The question though is in which direction are we going to do it. Are we going to be a force for change? Be deliberate? Be practical idealists? Or just have the good intentions without the effort that's necessary to bring about a positive exponential function. The final project for this course, as you know is a presentation that you'll give whether it's for the (?) students or the extension school students. You'll be giving a lecture to other people. And when we put together the class, this is precisely what we thought about: how you affect change and those people whom you change will hopefully influence others and so on and so on. In many ways, the idea was taken from the film "Pay it Forward". What I want to do now is show you a quick excerpt-- just the coming soon of "Pay it Forward", for those of you who haven't seen it. Because in "Pay it Forward", they capture this very idea of human networks as exponential functions. We underestinmate our capacity to effect change because we underestimate the growth of an exponential function What if the world is just a big disappointment? Unless you take the things that you don't like about this world and you flip them upside down and you can start that today. That's me. And that's three people. And I'm going to help them. And they do it for three other people. And they do it for three more. It has to be something really big. Something they can do by themselves. is it possible let one idea to change the world Lost your car? That's a keen observation. I can help you. You are giving me a brand new Jaguar and you don't want anything. Call it generosity between two strangers. What did you tell my son to make him bring homeless man into my house? I've got a story, Ok? A senior partner of Chandling and Moss is giving away new cars? Just pay it forward. Three big favors for three other people. You can't just put two people together and make them like each other. It's the one. Pay it forward. Pay it forward. Just like the idea. You could fix a person. Do you want to come in and stay? - It's just complicated.     - Come in. Supposed to be something hard. I don't care about your burns, Eugene, if that's even what they are. Is that what they are? I can't. So sorry. Don't tell me how sorry you are for me. Maybe you are scared to get rejected; well, I can't reject you, you're too quick for me! Are you still going to pay it forward? Give her another chance for me. You will miss! I wanna wear the green dress. No, you smell good! - Are you sure?      - Yeah, yeah! Pay it forward is a movement in LA, Mrs. McKenney. - Come on!       - A movement? So you are like flunk us if we don't change the world? You might just scrape by with a C. Impact three people. Each impact three others and three others. Within 20 degrees of separation. You can change the world, the entire world. Premise number 3: . internal factors versus external factors. There is a lot of research showing how difficult it is to change happiness based on external factors. Research on subjective wellbeing-- the term that psychologists use to capture happiness essentially has been going on for very, very long time. Until recently, most of the research was conducted, was done using questionnaires. And many people rightfully so questioned the veracity, the value of these questionnaires, because it is subjective-- are we measuring something real? Over the last few years, what started to happen is more and more psychologists have been using brain scans for example; they've been using fMRIs, EEGs, other physiological measures. And what they found interestingly is that there is a very high correlation between the "objective" measures such as brain scans, such as EEGs, such as fMRI, such as physiological measures and people's evaluation of their wellbeing-- in other words, subjective levels of happiness. Very high correlation between the two which in many ways gives credence to the many years of research that has been conducted, before we have the technology to do it in a more sophisticated way. So the research I am going to share with you-- some of it is taken using the brain scans, other is self-evaluation. But again, both are meaningful as well as valuable. We'll get more into the way that the research is conducted when we talk about phenomenon such as meditation. Or people like Richie Davidson actually scanned the brain and showed significant changes as a result of an 8-week meditation program. Or people like a very young Joshua Greene, who does a research on morality and shows that we have morality centers in our brain. So it's becoming much more sophisticated, much more interesting and the interesting thing about it is that it verifies a lot of the research that has been done to date with far less sophisticated means, such as self-repport. Research done by Daniel Gilbert who teaches Psych1 on effective forecasting. Here is one of his studies. So what he did was go to professors who were just before either getting the tenure decision: so either they were going to get the tenure or not. And he asked them, "How happy are you going to be, if you get the tenure?" And they said, "Ecstatic! This is something I've working on for many years and this will be it. This will be a dream come true." And-- "How happy are you going to stay for?" And they said, "For the rest of our lives. Because this is something we've been working for very long time. It will make everything so much easier. I can get off the publish-or-perish race. I can enjoy my work much more. This is going to transform my life." And he asked them, "What happens if you don't get tenure? If you are rejected?" And they said, "We are going to be devastated. This is something we've been working for many, many years." And-- "How long are you going to be devastated for?" "Probably until we get tenure somewhere else. But even then, that may not be enough."-- Because once you don't get tenure in one place, you don't go up in terms of the ranking of the school-- you very often would get tenure but elsewhere, school that is not considered as good as the one where you were rejected. So it will be devastating for a very long time. And Gilbert went to them at the moment when they got the tenure decision. Some of them got them. Others did not. "How are you feeling?" He asked. Those who got it, "Ecstatic! Happiest we've ever been." And-- "How long are you going to stay happy for?" "For the rest of our lives. We've made it." And then he went to those who didn't get tenure and asked them, "How are you feeling?" They were devastated. And they were sure that they were going to remain devastated for a very long time. And he went back to see them three months later, six months later. And what Gilbert and his colleagues found was that almost to the person, those who got tenure or did not get tenure went back to their previous level of well-being: If they were happy before, they were happy six months hence; if they were unhappy before, regardless whether they get tenure or not, they were not happy. In other words, it looks like this and went back to base level or; it looks like this and back to base level. They did the same with lottery winners. "What if you really win ten million dollars, will it actually make you happier?" Yes-- for a while, but not for long. Philip Brickman，Northwestern University did this research. After within 6 months, people go back to their base level of wellbeing. People in serious accidents with their paralysis as the result of the accident, very often, usually-- again, this is all the average-- go back to their base level of happiness: if they are happy before, they will be happy one year after; if they are unhappy, they will remain unhappy. Extreme circumstances make very little difference to our wellbeing. University of Illinois professor Ed Diener does a lot of research on happiness levels. He has been doing it since the 1970s. What he shows-- he and others including Daniel Kahneman, Nobel prize winner-- show is that wealth matters very little to our levels of wellbeing. Just like the lottery would make a very little difference to our wellbeing. Now this does not mean that a person who doesn't have enough food, someone who is homeless on the streets here, gets an extra thousand or two thousand dollars a month-- that of course will make him or her much happier. But beyond the basic needs, once our basic needs are met and that means food, shelter, basic education. Once those needs are met, income makes very little difference. No change across generations. Our generation is much wealthier than our parents, much, much wealthier than our grandparents' generation. We are not happier. And that is global-- whether it's China, whether it's in the UK or Australia, or the United States. Levels of happiness are essentially static; and anxiety levels and depression levels, as we talked about in the first class have gone up significantly. So income levels make very little difference. In general, external circumstances make very little difference. I mean, think about your own experience: how did you feel-- go back, just transport yourself to experience of getting into Harvard, getting this big package in the mail which said "You were accepted" on April 1 or the end of December, when you got this pack-- how did you feel? Probably ecstatic. Probably one of your highlights. And that moment, if you are like me, you thought, "This is it. I'm really going to be happy for a very long time. Cos I really struggled in high school-- a lot of it was difficult; a lot of it was painful, but it was all worth it. I made it." And you went along with that feeling the next day, because in school they started to talk about how you got in. And you felt fantastic about it, right? And you felt great probably for the rest of the senior year-- I mean, still ups and downs; but overall, high levels of happiness. And it was going to last for the rest of your life. And you came here-- Freshmen week, you knew it was going to last for the rest of your life. Because you were around wonderful people. It was fun. There were parties. And you said, "Everything they said about Harvard was not true. It's actually a party school." You were certain of that, right? And not only was it a party school, you were going to have an amazing time for the four years and beyond. Because your life was transformed by this letter of acceptance, right? Things started to change probably on the first day of class, but not entirely-- because there's shopping period and it's such a wonderful thing-- you shop for classes. It's even better than going to the mall-- so many, 3000 classes to choose from. And this second week of Harvard is fantastic and it was going to continue just that way, constant tide for the rest of your life. And then suddenly things begin to change. Slightly. Ever so slightly. And they completely change once your first paper is due or the midterms arrive. And you go back to your base level of wellbeing. If you experience a lot of stress in high school and elementary school and were unhappy, generally the best predictor would say that you would feel the same way a month into your Harvard experience. External circumstances matter very little. Very little. In fact, also, place of residents makes very little difference. People think, " Well, if I move-- especially in the day-light-- if I move to California, I'll be happier, right?" Wrong. Californians are no happier than people in Massachusetts. Initially when we go to a warm place, we feel the relief and there's this spiky level of wellbeing. But very quickly we go back to our base level exactly where we were before. I'll take this even a step further, even though there is no research about this, I bet you this is correct: there is no difference in our levels of wellbeing if our place of residents is by the river or in the quad. This is really taking the theory far, but it's true. I love this T-shirt-- what? If you can't run with the big dogs, stay in yard. Anyone from Korea here? Alright. You made it all the way on such a cold day. Well done! I appreciated it. How spoiled we get here. Makes very little difference. Very little difference-- where we are, where we live, income levels, lottery, tenure, getting into our dream college, getting our dream job for you seniors-- you may have just gotten it. Yeah, you are going to have a spike in your level of wellbeing-- I'm sure you had a spike in your level of wellbeing when you got this acceptance letter, but very quickly we go back to our base level. One thing that does matter to our base level of wellbeing which is external circumstance is democracy versus oppression. People living in democracies are generally significantly happier than people living in dictatorships. Women, for example, living in places where they are oppressed are in general less happy than women living in free countries. People living in Darfur are certainly less happy than people living in Denmark or the United States. But again, these are the extreme circumstance that do make a difference, such as I said, a homeless person, of course, income will make a difference to that person. Moving to a free country, of course, will make a difference to their wellbeing. But beyond the extremes, additions or subtractions to our external circumstances make very little difference. Now this is good news and bad news. The bad news is it seems like whatever we do, it doesn't matter. So why am I working hard in order to get that BCG job? why did I work so hard in order to get into this place? If it doesn't matter, if I experience this ups and downs. And the answer is that-- yes it won't make a difference to our wellbeing but it also doesn't mean that we cannot increase our level of wellbeing. Many people said the problem with general levels of happiness or unhappiness rather, the cause is people have too high expectations. And if we lower our expectations, we lower our stress levels and we will enjoy life more. "Ok, so I don't care if I don't get a B in the course. I'd be much happier if I don't care, if I lower my levels of expectation. I don't care what I get into, what job I have, I just want to be happy." And you'll probably be happy. Slightly happy if you lower your levels of expectations, but not in the long term. And we'll talk about it next week. Not in the long term. The problem is not lower these high expectations-- that doesn't matter. The problem is right versus wrong expectations. Not lower high expectations-- that won't make a difference to our levels of wellbeing. What will make a difference to our levels of wellbeing is if we have right vs. wrong expectations. It is wrong expectation to expect that getting into a certain place, getting a raise, finding our dream partner, is responsible for our happiness. Moving to California or to (Forts Heimer?). That in and of itself will not make us happier. That's wrong expectation. The right expectation is to believe in change from within. So these things will not make us happy. In fact, our readiness and potential to experience happiness is mostly depended on our state of mind, not on our status, or the states of our bank account. It's about changing our perception-- state of mind. It's about changing our interpretation of the world, of what's happening to us, of our achievements, of our failures. It's about what we choose to perceive, what we choose to focus on. It's about transformation, as opposed to the external information or the external success. 1504-- this whole course, is about this transformation, as I mentioned during the first lesson. I want to move on to the fourth premise, one of the most important premises in this course. And in many ways, we can understand human intellectual history just based on this idea: should we accept human nature? Or can we perfect it? And can it change? This work relies on-- or these ideas rely on the work of Thomas Sowell. Thomas Sowell, Harvard class of 58, now at Stanford, the Hoover Institute, one of my intellectual heroes. And what he does and what his work does is basically explain why people choose to back one political party versus the other; why they choose to live one kind of life versus the other. This single book helped me understand myself better as well as other people better-- whether it's politically, whether it's psychologically, whether it's philosophically. Those of you who are interested in politics and there is one book you want to read, after you read Marva Collins of course, it's this. So what does Thomas Sowell say? Essentially what he does is divide people into two camps those who hold constrained vision, the limited vision; and those who hold the unconstrained, the unlimited vision of human nature. People who hold constrained vision of human nature, believe that human nature cannot be changed; it's immutable-- we have certain instincts, we have certain inclinations. They are fixed. This is it. What you see is what you get. What you are born with or were born with, as species, is all we have. The flaws that are out there are inevitable-- they cannot be changed. We need to accept them for what they are. That's the only thing we can do with these flaws. And people who have the constrained vision think that our instincts, our inclinations, our basic nature is immutable, accepted. And then what they do, rather than resign, they channel it. How do they channel it? By building certain political institutions that would channel the flawed, imperfect human nature toward the good. Philosophers and psychologists who fall under the constrained vision create them, philosophies and psychologies and institutions and systems to channel our flawed and imperfect nature. People who fall under the constrained vision in the history of ideas, are people such as Alexander Hamilton, Adam Smith-- those of you are taking or will take EC 10, ?, Fredrick Kayak. These are people who say, "our nature is constrained. It's limited." Edmund Burke-- another one. What captures this idea best-- the words of Francis Bacon, considered the father of the scientific movement, was a philosopher in 1600s: "Nature to be commanded must be obeyed." Whether it's physical nature, or human nature. We need to obey it. It is what it is. Now we have the unconstrained vision. Perhaps you are a little bit more optimistic, a little bit more utopian-- human nature can be improved. It can be changed. It is up to us to do so. It is perfectable. We don't need to accept these flaws as inevitable. We can perfect it. There are solutions to these flaws, to these imperfections and our role-- the goal of institutions, whether it's political institutions, educational institutions, of systems, organizations, individual philosophers, psychologists, the role is to change our nature, to perfect it, to better it. Philosophers who help this position: people like Thomas Jefferson, people like Jean-Jacques Rousseau, George Bernard Shaw, Ronald Dworkin and other leading thinkers. And what Thomas Sowell did was map the entire intellectual history of world showing how people who held this view versus that view, that two radically different political prescriptions. The person who best captures the unconstrained view, Benjamin Constant, French philosopher and politician, "It is for self-perfectioning that destiny calls us." Generally people on constrained view, are people politically, not always, but usually people who would support capitalism-- people like Adam Smith, who talked about "invisible hand"-- Let's channel imperfect, perhaps flawed human nature toward the good. People who are more on the unconstrained vision would tend toward Utopianism or sometimes communism. Not always, but sometimes. Why? Because let's change human nature. Self-interest is not good. It hurts in the long term and therefore, we need to change it rather than the constrained vision-- people who said, "We may not like it, but it is what it is. We cannot change it. Let's make the best of it and channel it toward the good." Two radical views. Two radical prescriptions based on people's notion perspective. So why am I telling you this? This is not a political science class. Because it has every relevance to psychology as well. It has every relevance to psychology: Do we perceive reality, human nature as constrained or unconstrained will ultimately affect our psychology. And this is very meaningful and important. Let me explain. Now first of all, some people who have the constrained view when it comes to politics, have the unconstrained view when it comes to psychology, so it is not always consistent, though it very often is. So the vision of psychology this course promotes is the constrained view. In other words, my belief-- and I am going to back that up with research today and for the next semester-- is human nature is fixed. We have inclinations. We have certain instincts that are there and have been formed either God-given or evolutionary-given for millions of years that have been formed. They are not going to change any time soon. Not in our life time. It's fixed. We are stuck with them through good and ill. And all we can do after we accept this nature is to first understand it through research, and then after we understand it, make the best use of it. Understand it through research as well as through the search-- through introspection, and then make the best use of it. How can I channel my nature? And what I want to do now is illustrate a case study of what I mean by nature constrained and why it is so important for happiness, for wellbeing, for long-term success to have the constrained view of human nature when it comes to our psychology that is. The topic I want to talk about is the permission to be human. I am going to talk about this topic for three reasons. A, because it illustrates what Thomas Sowell means politically in the psychological realm. Second, because I think it is one of the most important pillars of wellbeing and happiness. The third reason why I want to talk about it is because it gets to misunderstanding that many people have regarding what positive psychology is and is not. When I first started teaching this course and had six students, I remember one day sitting in Leverett House, having lunch by myself and one of the students comes in and says, "can I join you?" "Sure." we have lunch. And he says to me, "Tal, I hear you teaching a class on happiness." And I said to him, "Yes. That's right." And he said, "You know, my roommates are taking your class." And I said, "That's wonderful." There were two of the six. And he said, "But Tal, you've got to watch out now." And I said to him, "Why?" And he said, "Tal, you'll have to be careful." And I said, "Why?" And he said, "Because if I see you unhappy, I'll tell them." The next day in class, I used that and I said to the students, "You know, the last thing in the world that I want you to think is that I experience a constant high or that you, by the end of the semester or the year-- it was a year course, you-- by the end of the year-- will experience a constant high." There are two kinds of people, who experience this constant high, who don't experience painful emotions such as anger, or envy, or disappointment, or sadness, or unhappiness, or depression, or anxiety at times-- two kinds of people who don't experience these painful emotions: the one kind are the psychopaths-- by definition they don't experience these painful emotions; the second kind of people who don't experience these painful emotions are dead people. Exactly! So you know, if you experience these emotions, it's a good sign. You are not a psychopath, and you are alive. However, in our culture today, we don't give ourselves the permission to be human, the freedom to experience these painful emotions as well. And we pay a very high price for this inability, for this refusal to accept the fact that it is part of human nature that is constrained, that is there no matter what. As kids, as babies-- going back to the baby's scene, we give ourselves the permission to be human, we know that it's natural. We don't even think about it in fact, to experience the high and then the low and high and then low. And later on, when we stop giving ourselves the permission to be human when the facade become so important, we begin to realize that other people are watching us and evaluating us constantly and we think they do so much more than they actually do. That's when we stop giving ourselves the permission to be human, and we pay a price, in terms of our energy levels, of our wellbeing, of our happiness, of our creativity, and ultimately also our success. Let me give an example of someone who does give himself the permission to be human. The Permission to be Human Now I'm saying we should look like this. But what I am saying is that we all need a space, a place in our own lives where we give ourselves the permission to be human, whether it's with close friends, people we care about, whether it's first and foremost with ourselves when we write a journal, where we do give ourselves the permission to be, to cry, to be joyous-- because if we don't, we pay a price. We need a space of unconditional acceptance. The best advice that I got, or that we got-- my wife and I got when David, our first son was born from our pediatrician, Dr. Tok Shapiro-- and David was born at 1 AM in the morning and around 8 AM in the morning, he came in to see, to check up on my wife, to check up on the baby, for some reason, he didn't check up on me. And everything was fine. As he is leaving the room, he turned around and said, " Just one more thing. over the next few months, you are going to be experiencing every single kind of emotion to the extreme and that's fine. It's natural. We all go through it." And he walked out. It was the best advice that my wife and I got regarding child-rearing. Why? Let me give you an example. So after about a month, I started to, once in a while, experience some envy toward David. Because here he was for the first time in-- well, since my wife and I were together-- someone else is getting much more attention than I was, no matter how much I cried. And I felt envy toward him and five minutes later, I experienced this most intense love toward him-- the emotion that I haven't felt before. Now normally I would think, "what a hypocritic! It's just something is wrong: one minute you are envious and the next minute you experience love?" There is nothing wrong. There is everything right. It's part of being human. And because I had Dr.Shapiro's voice at back of my mind-- permission to be human, that helped me a great deal-- experience the envy when I experienced it, accept it; and then enjoy and celebrate it-- the positive emotions that I experienced toward David. Permission to be human. You see, there is actually a paradox playing-- this is work done by our very own Daniel Wegner on ironic processing. When we suppress a natural phenomenon, that phenomenon only strengthens. Let me illustrate through an experiment. So for the next ten seconds, do not think of a pink elephant. For the next ten seconds, do not think of a pink elephant. You know the one that I am talking about? With the big ears, Dumbo? Do not think of a pink elephant for the next three seconds and I am sure no one thought of a pink elephant right? What happened? -- Most people thought of a pink elephant. Because when we try to suppress a natural phenomenon such as having a visual of the word when we say it, that thing just intensifies. The same applies to the painful emotions that are natural. And when we try to suppress them, they strengthen. When I started to teach after hearing about Marva Collins and deciding teaching is my calling, I knew that I had to deal with the problem-- the problem is that I am introvert, I get very nervous in front of audiences and large audiences for me is anything but five. But I had to deal with it and I knew I would have to deal with it. So I would go on in front of audience and before that I would say to myself, "Tal, don't be nervous. Don't be anxious. No anxiety today. Don't be nervous. Don't be nervous. Don't!" And what happened?-- Pink elephants all around. Instead after especially reading about paradoxical intentions by Victor Frankl, I started to give myself the permission to be human. And now when I go into a lecture, the nervousness-- because I give myself the permission to be human-- goes away within as little as three hours into the lecture. But no, it's manageable. I still get nervous before every single lecture, which is actually a good thing. But it's managable. I can deal with it. I can handle it. Permission to be human. You see, rejecting our nature leads to suboptimal performance emotionally as well as in terms of external performance. Imagine waking up every morning and saying to yourself: "I refuse to accept the law of gravity. This law of gravity is such a pain. You need to walk down the stairs and then up the stairs. I just want to float to Sanders (Sanders Theatre) in the morning. I just want to float to the dining hall after-- so much easier, so much less painful." Imagine leading a life like this. Will you truly refuse to accept the law of gravity? What kind of life would you lead? Well, first of all, you may not survive for long, if you truly don't accept the fact that things, people being no exception fall when left in mid-air. But even if you do survive-- let's the ground floor-- even if you do survive, you would lead a life of constant frustration-- refusing to accept something that is there whether you like it or not. So instead we accept the law of gravity. More than that, we create games around the law of gravity. I mean all those of you doing sports here-- and it's most of you in this room who are doing athletics, who go for a run, you rely on the law of gravity. Can you imagine Harvard vs. Yale football without the law of gravity? Can you imagine a basketball game without the law of gravity? I am not talking about Michael Jordan, but for the (?). We accept it and we create games around it. And yet we don't do the same when it comes to our emotions. Now here is the key point: Painful emotions are as much as part of human nature as the law of gravity is part of physical nature. And "nature to be commanded must be obeyed". And the aeronautics engineer who wants to build an airplane has to obey, take into consideration, learn it, study and understand the law of gravity. The same applies to a psychologist. The constrained view of human nature. "Nature to be commanded must be obeyed." And yet we don't do that. We don't do in our culture. And we pay a high price for it. We have what I called, "the great deception". We are people who ask, "So how are you doing?" And we say, "Fine. Just great." Well in fact, we are not doing so well. More appropriate would be "I'm going through a rough patch now. I'm going through a hard time. I'm really stressed." But yet, we don't want to admit that. We don't give ourselves the permission to be human, because we think there is something wrong with us if we experience these emotions. And then when everyone says, "Oh fine. Oh great. Oh terrific", then we are asked "How are you doing?" I am not going to be the only party poop here. I am not going to be the only depressed one around here. So I said, "Oh fine. Oh great." And then we contribute to this great deception and it is this great deception that leads to the great depression-- the great depression in the ultimate currency of happiness. This, to great extent, explains why so many people today experience depression the 45% figure, nationwide on college campuses. Not enough permission to be human. I am not talking about wearing our heart on our sleeves. When someone comes to us in the elevator in William James (William James Hall), I says, "How are you doing?" "Thank you for asking. You know it all started when I was three." This is not what I am talking about. In William James, maybe the case-- because the elevator-- it does take two hours to get there for the door to close. But other than that. I'm not talking about. what I'm talking about is a space, a safe space in our lives with our closest friends, with our family, first and foremost, with ourselves, will we have the permission to be human. And what I'm not talking about is resignation. Far from it. It's not about saying, "Well I'm depressed. There's nothing I can do about it. I accept my nature. I accept my state. And that's it." I'm not talking about resignation. what I'm talking about is active acceptance. What does that mean? It means understanding that certain things I cannot change and certain things I can and ought to change. One of the main ideas we'll talk about is the distinction: we'll talk about specifically on the lecture on change between affect, behaviors and cognitions. The A, B, C of psychology. Affect-- emotion. Behavior-- action. Cognition-- thoughts. Unconditional acceptance, permission to be human relates primarily to our affect, to our emotions. They are there, just like the law of gravity is there. That does not mean we need to accept our behavior and our cognition. For example, I can-- and having the past experience-- envy towards my best friend, that in and of itself does not make me a bad person. It's human. I've never met a person who has never experienced or does not experience-- well, maybe the Dalai Lama-- but other than that, who does not experience envy toward other people. And if it is true about the Dalai Lama, that is because he's worked on it for decades. Envy is part of human nature-- nothing good or bad about the envy. Nothing good or bad about experiencing the anger. Nothing good or bad about experiencing the depression or anxiety. It's part of human nature. However, the question is, how do I choose to behave, to act as a result of it? That is where the moral domain enters. That's where I can have moral or immoral behavior toward my best friend or baby, or other people in general. I can still experience envy toward my best friend and choose to behave generously and benevolently toward him. The same with cognition and we will talk a lot about it when we talk about CBT-- Cognitive Behavioral Therapy. I can feel it certain way. But it doesn't mean that I need to resign to my thoughts about that feeling. Rumination is one of the things that we'll talk about a lot actually not that helpful-- to ruminate about painful emotions. It's much helpful to write about them. To talk to other people about them, rather than just be thinking constantly about how miserable I am because my girlfriend just left. I haven't found anyone in Pinocchio's. So rumination doesn't help. So I don't necessarily accept all my irrational thoughts and again, we'll talk about it much more next week of how we can cognitively reframe what we were thinking. But the emotion-- that affect is the emotion, it is what it is. And the key is to be true to reality, which is also one of the main themes in the course. In many ways, this course should not be called "Positive Psychology". But I am telling you this after you already signed up for the class so it is too late to leave. This is actually not a course on positive psychology. It's a course in reality psychology. Because positive psychology may mean that we are only focusing on the positive and what works, ignoring all the rest that are not. Overdoing this class is shifting the pendulum. So there is more even playing field instead of the 21:1 ratio, we are doing much more, focusing on the positive. And at the same time, accepting the painful emotions are as much part of human nature as the wonderful emotions. And sooner we accept it, the better. That won't mean at the end of the course of 1504 or 100 or 100 other courses in the workshop and sold the books that you read, it's not that you will not have painful emotions anymore. It's simply your psychological immune system will become stronger, hopefully already by the end of this semester. Psychological immune system will become stronger. And that means not that we don't get ill. It means we get ill less often and when we do get sick, we'll recover more promptly. The difference between the extremely happy people and extremely unhappy people is not that one gets sad, of upset, or anxious, or depressed; and the other does not. Both groups do. It's how quickly, how promptly we can recover from these painful emotions-- in other words, how strong our psychological immune system is. And our psychological immune system strengthens when we give ourselves the permission to be human. Many of you've probably read this, come across this, but I think this captures so well the foundation of what it means to be actively accepting. This has become the official mantra in many ways of the AA movement: "God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change; the courage to change the things I can change; and wisdom to know the difference." The wisdom to know the difference-- fortunately, a lot of this wisdom can come from studies, from research, from deep introspection that you will do throughout the semester. What I want to do now is an exercise. I want to do a group meditation. Trying to understand, not just on the cognitive level of the research, but also to experience on the visceral emotional level, what it really means to give ourselves the permission to be human. Those of you who don't feel comfortable doing it, you don't have to do it. Those who feel comfortable to do it, do it. If it's a stretch for you, I still recommend that you do it. If you never meditate before, this is a wonderful opportunity to do it for the first time. One thing I do ask you: If you are not doing it, if you don't participate, simply just keep quiet. Other than that, I really do recommend that you join us. What I want to do together now is enter the realm of unconditional acceptance. Se?or, just sit up straight as much as possible. If possible, your back relaxing against the back rest. Plant your feet comfortably on the floor. If you feel comfortable, close your eyes. Shift the focus of your breath. Shift the focus of your thoughts to your breathing. Take a deep breath in all the way down to your belly. And then breathe out. Again, deep breath in; slow, gentle, quiet breath out. Repeat that in silence. If your mind wanders, simply bring it back to your breathing. Deep, slow inhalation. Deep, slow, gentle, quiet exhalation. Most of us don't breathe deeply enough. We don't take the time to celebrate our breath, our spirit, our being. The connection, the link, the bridge between our mind and our body; between our emotions and our thoughts; between the brain and the heart. Continue with the deep breathing. As you continue with the deep breath, shift your focus to your emotions, to your feelings. How are you doing? How are you feeling? Pay attention to your emotions. Whatever they are, whatever it is that your feeling, allow it to float through you. Naturally. Just experience your emotion whatever it is. You may feel one emotion at one moment, different emotion the next. That's Ok. Whatever it is, accept it. Experience it. Give yourself the permission to be human. It's all OK. Just breath. Continue to observe and experience whatever emotion comes up, whether it's calm or happiness, whether it's anxiety, confusion, boredom or joy. Whatever it is, continue to breathe deeply into your belly. And gently, slowly, quietly exhale. Let the emotion flow just like the breath. As you continue breathing deeply, in your mind's eye, see yourself walking out of this classroom today, walking in the yard, with the feeling that all your feelings are real fine part of human nature. They just are. Neither good nor bad. As you walk amid the buildings and trees, as you see your friends and classmates, allow these emotions to float through you, freely, lightly. By experiencing these emotions, whether the ups and the downs, what you are doing is being, being a human being. Continue to allow the breath and the emotions to just flow. To just be. What if you truly gave yourself the permission to be human? What if you are giving yourself the permission to be human? Just imagine. Life becomes so much lighter. So much simpler. When, rather than trying to fight or defeat our nature, we accept it. We accept who we are. We accept whatever emotion comes up. Deep, slow inhalation. Slow, gentle, quiet, calm exhalation. Take a few deep breaths in silence. Embrace the silence, the stillness. Embrace yourself, your emotions. And on your next exhalation-- deep, slow, quiet exhalation, open your eyes. If the person next to you is asleep, gently wake him or her up. Just imagine Just imagine the kind of life that you can experience -- hush-- the kind of life you can lead, if you truly, genuinely, really gave yourself the permission to be human. It's one of the pillars of healthy life, psychologically, physiologically. So try it. Everyday remind yourself just once or twice to give yourself the permission to be human. And give others that same permission. You deserve it. 



 Chapter 4: 环境的力量


I'd like to introduce a representative from "Teach for America" which is an organization that has done and is doing a lot of good, promoting goodness in the world and I'd like to-- in 1504, we've been supporting them for the last 2 years and we'd like to continue to do that. So please. Hello. Can you hear me? Thank you so much for this. I will take 90 seconds. My name is Josh Bieber. Alright. I feel positive. I was a Teacher for America Corp member and I now work for TFA. I do new site development. So when I was a senior, I had marginally considered this is an option. I had a napping for a very pushy phone call from a very pushy TFA recruiter on the deadline day-- I would not apply. But I hesitantly took two hours to fill that essays and now owe her for or owe that phone call for the best two years of my life and truly the happiest. So if I have 60 seconds, there are just two things that I want people to know about TFA. I think you know what we are. One, is that this country does not serve all kids in our schools fairly. So low-income kids before they even leave elementary school are years behind where they should be. And nearly not even a half of them graduate high school, which is like, a terrible injustice, a complete injustice. Two, you can actually make a difference. I was as skeptical as they come about TFA and my ability and all the rest. But I know this to be true. If you walk into a class with 5th graders, who on day one are years behind where they should be and hate school and are kind of like to hate you because of it. And nine months later, they leave honor above great level, begging for some more work and wanting to hang out with you on the weekend. You kinda think that anything is possible. And that's clearly I am here now. So for me, Teach for America is an opportunity to actually align my actions with my thoughts and my hopes and be part of the change we all talk about wanting to see. So I would encourage you all, regardless of what you think you may do next year, or you may go beyond that to like, really consider this. It was the best thing that I could've done. The final deadline is tomorrow. It's easy to do. You don't need rex. Just apply. And give yourself the chance to fall in love with it the way that I did. And I will just end by saying, if you are in this room right now, you've probably had the best education anyone your age, anywhere could possibly have. Our students and our schools need you. So please join us. Thank you very much for the time. And have a good class. Hi everyone. Quickly. If there are any extension students or undergraduate students who were not able to make section this week, we have an open section tonight at 730. That'll be videotaped for the extension school. So if you are available and interested in attending that, please come and see me after class. Thanks. I'd like to introduce now two very dear friends and supporters of positive psychology who are doing arguably more than anyone else to disseminate the ideas of positive psychology in a rigorous and fun way. I've asked them to give a brief presentation about the Masters of Applied Positive Psychology at U Penn, the only master degree, well the first master degree in the world-- there are a couple of others now. And they'll talk a little bit about-- for 15 minutes-- about the masters, before we jump into our material today, which hopefully will be exciting. So-- James and Debbie, please. Thank you very much, Tal. It's great to be here with you guys. What a delight to be able to spend a few minutes with you and such a very special class, where you are combining the science of positive psychology with its practice. And of course, as you very quickly figure out, Tal is such a master teacher, somebody who is able to take complex ideas and make them simple without making them simplistic and also making it inspiring and making the presentation motivating so that we want to go out and apply the ideas that we are studying. I'm curious-- how many of you here are interested in applying the science of positive psychology in your own personal life as part of why you are her. Can I see your hands? Ok. Great. How many of you are here because you are also potentially interested in applying the science of positive psychology in your future career decisions, in your job eventually? Ok. Great. Excellent. I hope you do just that. For those of you who are interested in taking positive psychology, studies of positive psychology deeper at graduate level program for your own knowledge, but also to be able to take what you are learning into your profession, we're delighted to be able to tell you a little bit about the master of applied positive psychology program at the University of Pennsylvania, and to talk a little bit about taking positive psychology from the classroom to the world. Now as you know, positive psychology is just about 10 years old. It was started in 1998, when Martin Seligman was the president of the American Psychological Association. And positive psychology was one of his presidential initiatives. About 4 years ago, Martin Seligman started the positive psychology center at the University of Pennsylvania. And the mission of the positive psychology center is to promote research, training, education and dissemination of positive psychology. So in January, 2005, I joined the positive psychology center as the director of education and senior scholar. The next month, in February of 2005, Debbie Swick came on board as the associate director of education. Our task was to create a master program and have an up and running by the fall. So again, I got there in January, Debbie came in February. We got our brochure out, printed and published in March. Our application deadline was April. Kind of an optimistic, I suppose? And we didn't know if anybody would show up. We didn't know if anybody would be interested. We needn't have worried. We got over 100 applications and we accepted 36 students into our program for that fall. And things have just been really going well and hopping ever since. This is our current class. On their first day of class in the fall of 2007, we have 41 students in our class this year. So I'd just like to tell you a little bit more about the students. Actually three of our graduates or current students are teaching fellows in this class. So that's exciting. Debbie Coen, Elizabeth Johnston-- where are you? You guys, please stand up. And Elizabeth Peterson. Great. If you look at the up left corner, Gabriel was a student here in this class two years ago, when we came and presented on the program and he is currently a student in the MAPP program. So there is a lot of synergy going back and forth between this class and our master program. Our student age range from 22 to 62. They come from all across United States, from Vermont to Florida, to California. They come from around the world: we have students from UK, from Norway, Switzerland, India, Malaysia, Japan, Hong Kong, South Korea and New Zealand. About 25% to 30% of our students are younger students who are just out of college and are looking to immerse themselves in positive psychology before going on into their professional training. The rest of our students are professionals who come from a wide variety of professions. In our first class, we had the former chief social worker inspector for the entire country of Scotland within the class. That was very interesting. We had kidney transplant surgeon, former Vice President of JP Morgan; we had attorneys, Directors of Development for Non-Profits; executive director of school, Carlbrook Academy is in our class this year; human resources directors, consultants, executive coaches, even professional musician and professional comedian. So it is quite a cross cut of students in the class. Just in a couple of minutes, I want to give you a little bit more sense of what educational design is and just a brief over view of the course work. So this MAPP program is a one calendar year, full-time study. Students begin in September and end in August. The educational design is hybrid model-- so once a month, students are on class, on site, for intensive on site classes. And then in the intervening periods, they are on distant learning modules that the students complete. This is a professional master degree. And it focuses on the theory and the application of positive psychology in various professional domains. So at this point, there is not a separate licensing or credentialing in positive psychology itself. Students come from education, business, law, medicine, etc, bringing in their own credentials with them. So this design of having students on campus once a month for intensive classes allows students to continue working full time. Now just as I said, the program is full time and you may be wondering, "How can students work full time and study full time." Keep in mind this is a professional degree and executive education model that is intended to be designed for people who are themselves working full time and still taking classes full time. So most of our students continue their work they've been doing, continuing working full time when they come to our class. Another advantage of this model is students aren't required to live in Philadelphia. Students can commute in from across United States. And what has been a surprise and pleasure to us: students have decided to commute in from as far away as Europe and Asia. I don't know today what you commute was like to come to class. But some of our students come as far away as South Korea and New Zealand every month to be part of the positive psychology classes. So you can imagine that adds real excitement and energy to the class and puts a little bit pressure on the professors to make sure that we have something worth coming half way around the world for. This enhances the educational experience obviously by increasing student diversity: we have students who are living abroad and coming in for the classes. And also we are able to tap into the expertise of professors, not just at the University of Pennsylvania, but also at other schools as well so that we can bring in the very top leading researchers and practitioners of positive psychology. A brief overview of the schedule of on-site classes on the fall 2008: you can see that there are five different intensive on-site weekends in the spring as well with distant learning and intervening times. So just very briefly, the courses-- each student takes four courses in the fall, four courses in the spring and then the capstone course. In the fall, the courses focus on the foundational theory of positive psychology: Martin Seligman teaches the Introduction to Positive Psychology course; Angela Duckworth teaches a course on Research Methods and Evaluation it is very important for our students to have a real good grasp of the science of positive psychology, understanding other research methods behind the results; I teach a course in the foundation of positive interventions; and then our fourth course is Approaches to the Good Life, where we have different leading researchers come in and talk about their research. In the spring, our courses focus, not so much on the theory, but now move to the application of positive psychology since it's a master of applied positive psychology. I don't know if you study yet "the character strengths and virtues", the values and the action classification by Chris Peterson. If you haven't done that yet, I'm sure you shortly will. He himself comes in and teaches a course on the work he has done. I teach a course on applied positive interventions and we have a service learning component as a part of that class. Karen Reivich and Judith Saltzberg Levick teach a course on positive psychology and individual-- so this is how to use positive psychology relationally with other people, whether it's in working environment or with friends or family. And then finally, I don't know if you are familiar with appreciative inquiry-- again, I expect, if you not, Tal will be introducing it to you during the course this semester David Cooperrider is the leader of this field of inquiry, which basically takes positive psychology approaches into organizations and seeks to foster change at the level, not just individuals, but at the level of the whole. The final course the students take then is the Capstone project, which happens over the summer. This is an independent project where students are able to integrate what they've learned in their classes and take a step forward in the directions that they want to go in their own professional application of this. So we had students do research, quantitative research or qualitative research; we had students do literature reviews in a particular area of interest; work proposals for book they want to write; or workshop proposals and those kinds of things. So that's a brief overview of the courses. Debbie is going to just take a couple of minutes to show you some pictures-- this has been a lot of texts in the last few minutes. Debbie will show you some pictures and tell you more about the class. Debbie. Thanks. Thank you. You heard about the course from James. I'm going to tell you a little bit about how they are set up and what they are. And this is a picture from emersion week-- emersion week is when the very first time students meet together that for 5 days to Penn. And we have class from 8 to 5. And I know it sounds kind of crazy but we have a lot of fun as you can tell. And they stay engaged, because we bring faculties from all over the place and this world-class faculty-- they really have a chance to interact with these. The class is 41 students-- they take all the courses together and it's more a seminar than a lecture. So they really get to interact quite a bit. And during break, during lunchtime, etc, they get to see these people that just have come in from various places. Another more of interaction that you get in the MAPP program is with cohorts. Everyone is put in a cohort-- about 3 to 5 people. And you'll do different projects with these people; you'll do a lot of things in distant learning; you'll communicate a lot with these people. And this is just another depth that you get when you get to work with people from all different places and all different demographics. And one of the things we really try to use the Capstone project for is a stepping stone into what you are going to do with your application. And many people have taken this and they have created workshop for what they are doing. One person actually took the primer in positive psychology and she translated it into Japanese. And she's getting it published. And that is quite a project for her. And other people have published in scholarly journals their Capstone work. And people give presentations and this is a photo of someone giving a presentation in a positive psychology summit. So there are a lot of different things that students do as we bring them to the program, as we give them a solid foundation and then we help them start applying this move towards that. But one of the biggest questions we get when we have applicants call in is, "what can I do with a MAPP degree?" I am going to tell you just as a quick snapshot: Sasha Lewis Heinz, just the first person there-- she is now in the PHD program in Development Psychology at Columbia University. So she came to the MAPP program before getting her PHD. So she has that foundation and that's what she wants to use and focus on as she goes through and gets her PHD. The second person up there is Saniel Mimen who has worked with hedge funds but she found in her spare time-- she found some time to create a positive psychology news daily website, which is articles about research and application of positive psychology written by MAPP alumni who are out there actually doing that. And another thing she's been able to do along with a lot of other MAPP alumni is being involved in trainings and being involved in projects that have come through the positive psychology center. As we get different projects to train people in the UK, to positive psychology in their schools, the people that we draw on are MAPP alumni, because they have the education and foundation that is needed to be able to put through these projects. So we hope to continue to put together alumni with various opportunities that come along to us. Caroline Miller, the third person there-- she is an author and she is getting ready to publish her second book and she's also a speaker and a coach. And she's had the opportunities since MAPP to actually teach a lot of the courses and she's very focused on goal setting and she's very focused on sports psychology. So this has really expanded what she's been able to do. And not all of our students are Harvard graduates, but these three happened to be them. Harvard graduates. So it's very interesting to see that little snapshot. And we hope we have many more Harvard graduates coming to our program. So James, you wanna finish up here? Thank you very much, Debbie. Our presentation is entitled "From the Classroom to the World". And certainly the MAPP program is one way of taking positive psychology from the classroom to the world. Just want to mention very briefly another opportunity: We've just started the international positive psychology association. And this is going to be a major international organization to help facilitate communication and collaboration among researchers and practitioners of positive psychology. Here is a picture that was taken at the first Board of Directors' meeting that happened in October-- not pictured here is Tal, who is a member of the board of the directors as are a number of our other leading positive psychologists from United States and around the world. There's a special student membership so I encourage you to check out the international positive psychology association at www.ippanetwork.org and join to stay abreast of the latest development in the field of positive psychology. I wish we had time for your questions but I know Tal has a lot of great stuff for you today. So we will move along. Just want to let you know that there will be an information session this afternoon, from 3 to 4:30 in Harvard Hall, room 103. So we'd love to see any of those of you who are interested to stop by and talk with us and we'll be able to talking more detail about more specific questions you might have at that point. We'll also be here for a few minutes after class. We have some brochures with us. We'd love you to take a brochure if you are interested. There's always more information hat can be found on our website at pennpositivepsych.org or you can email us the address listed. So we hope to see a lot of you at the MAPP program sooner or later. In the meantime, wish you have a very successful semester as you dig into the science of positive psychology and put it into practice in your own lives, and think about how to take positive psychology from the classroom to the world. OK. It's such a privilege to be a part of MAPP because what you have there in a year is all the top people from the field. So many of the people we'll talk about, whether it's Bob Fredrickson who we'll talk about in a few minutes, whether it's David Cooper we'll talk about, whether it's Martin Seligman of course, will come there and present to you and you'll be spending quality time in small groups with them. Real privilege. So what I want to do today is finish up on the basic premises, on the final premise. Now we are going to watch it again. No? Or that? Here we go. The final and the fifth premise is an important one; is a philosophical one but one I want to introduce at the beginning of the course so that you understand where I am coming from, where this course is coming from-- because many people say, "Ok, so happiness is important. We seek it; we have declarations-- national declarations, individual declarations of how important it is for us. But that doesn't mean that it is important or the "is", the fact that it is important doesn't mean we ought to do it. My argument here is that not only is it important, it also ought to be important. So first about the "is". Happiness, whether we like it or not, whether it's consciously , subconsciously, whether it's explicit or implicit, for most people-- not all, but for most people, it is the highest end. And again, we have Constitution save God in our pursuit of happiness. We spend a lot of effort, a lot of time thinking about it for ourselves as well as for others. Aristotle, over 2000 years ago, "Happiness is the meaning and purpose of life, the whole aim and end of human existence." William James in 1890 or in "The Variety of Religious Experiences" writes, " If we were to ask the question: "What is human life's chief concern?" one of the answers we should receive would be: "It is happiness." How to gain, how to keep, how to recover happiness, is in fact for most men at all times the secret motive of all they do, and all they are willing to endure." Now you may have heard of William James-- his name is after the building here. And he talked about this over 200 years ago; Aristotle over 2000 years ago. And it's not just peculiar to the West. The Dalai Lama, "Whether one believes in a religion or not, whether one believes in this religion or that religion, the very purpose of our life is happiness. The very motion of our life is towards happiness." So it is important for people. Again, whether it's conscious, subconscious, explicit or implicit, the question though is in fact it is important, should it be important? What about the moral dimension of happiness? There are so many other things happening, so many important things to do in the world. Why should we have happiness as our highest end, as our chief concern, as that which determines the motion of our life? In other words, what's good about wellbeing? What's good about positive emotions? And there is a lot of research to answer this question. But before the research, it feels good to feel good. Think about it. Internalize it. This is Aristotle's Law of Identity: A is A-- it feels good to feel good. And that, in and of itself is justification: why not feel good, if we can feel good? So the burden to prove why happiness is not important may be on the people who would argue otherwise-- we will talk about that argument later. But the first key issue is that it's good in and of itself-- almost needs no justification. However, beyond just feeling good, happiness also contributes to our life, to our relationships. It contributes to other people. This is research done by Barbara Fredrickson, one of the faculty members who teaches at U PENN. You saw a picture of her up there. What Barbara Fredrickson says is that positive emotions have an evolutionary reason, that they have a purpose beyond just making us feel good. For example, they help us think beyond what we are thinking right now, broaden our thinking; they help us build relationships; they help us build capacities-- remember one of the key concepts of this course is the positive emotions, positive psychology as a field as a whole, is about building capacities. The two analogies we use was strengthening our immune system or stronger "psychological engine" that has the capacity to endure more not just from the negative to zero, but also from the zero to the positive. So this is Barbara Fredrickson. Let me quote extensively from her article, which I believe you are reading for this week, "We should work to cultivate positive emotions in ourselves and in those around us, not just as end states in themselves, but also as a means to achieving psychological growth and improved psychological and physical health over time. I call this the broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions because positive emotions appear to broaden people's momentary thought action repertoire and build the enduring personal resources. Through experiences of positive emotions, people transform themselves, becoming more creative, knowledgeable, resilient, socially integrated, and healthy individuals." Numerous benefits to just experiencing positive emotions. It's a win-win. It feels good. And it's good for us and it's good for society as a whole as I'll argue momentarily. So what she's talking about here, for example, is that positive emotions help us overcome negative emotions. What happens when we experience negative emotions is that our consciousness, our thinking narrows and constricts. We focus just on one thing, so for example. And that can be a good thing-- you know, a lion comes to and charges me, "I don't want to start thinking about my MAPP application. I don't want to start thinking about what my roommates say. I want to focus on the lion. So my consciousness narrows and constricts, and I'm in the "fight or flight" mode. Now that's a good thing when a lion charges me. But it's not a very good thing if my consciousness continues to narrow and constrict beyond the threat, or beyond the hardship. And what we know is that very often we enter a downward spiral, a vicious cycle when we go into this narrow and constrict mode. So for example, just for example-- a random example: My girlfriend leaves me, alright? And I narrow and constrict in terms of my thinking-- all I am thinking about is just that. And what will happen is as a result, I experience sadness, because that is what I am thinking about, and sadness-- a painful emotion, not a positive emotion-- leads to further narrow and constrict. And that can potentially, not always, but potentially can go on and on and on. And that's when it can become depression. That's when I have difficulty getting out of this downward, vicious cycle. Positive emotions do the opposite. They broaden and build. Broaden and build leads to positive emotions. Then positive emotions further broaden and build. So that's a virtuous cycle. And I look broadly, I look to othe people, I look to other things: So what can I do now? Where can I go? Where can I spend my time? And very often what that does-- a positive emotion can take us out of this downward spiral and create an upward spiral. A positive emotion can come in form of watching a humorous film; it can come in form of "if you take a deep breath"-- we talked about deep breathing when we talked about my body; a positive emotion can come in form of interaction with a friend, a pleasant one. It's the positive emotion that can take us out from this downward spiral to this upward spiral. And again it doesn't always take a very long time. And the challenge is to combine "the permission to be human" to experience the emotion to go through the motion and yet not to enter the downward spiral where six months later, after small incident, I'm still in that rot. We'll talk about what is the right time and how do you find the right time, how do you find the balance between thinking about painful emotions and when does it slide to rumination, which is not always helpful. So it helps overcome the negative emotions. Also, creativity-- we think broadly-- we are able to make connections, see connections we haven't seen before, perhaps. There's a lot of the talk about the depressive creature. If you want to have high level of creativity, it's a must you have to be depressed. Well, it turns out that's not the case. Very often manic depressives are highly creative, but that's usually during their manic phases. In the depressed phase, our thinking is narrow; we don't think outside the box usually-- of course there's many exceptions, but as a whole. In fact there's research-- for example, this was done with internists, doctors, who are giving a very difficult, very difficult question connected to a liver problem that an individual patient had. And they divided them randomly into three groups-- the first group was a control group-- they just had to solve the problem; the second group was given a statement about humanistic value of medicine-- why is it so important to be a medical doctor; and the third group was given candy and put in a funny playful good mood. The third group that was given the candies and put in a positive playful mood outperformed the other two groups significantly-- they thought about more options and they actually came up with better solutions with that problem. And this is one of many studies in this area. Another example-- children. One group of children was a control group; the second group was taught to think back to experience that make them laugh or smile. And that group did much better on the learning task than the control group, because they were put into a positive mood. Again, it's a win-win. It's defined in many ways that "no pain, no gain" paradigm, whether it's education of doctors or in school, as well as generally in the workplace. Because you see, also motivation and energy-- you don't need research for that, you know that when you are feeling good, you have more motivation, you have more energy-- of course, there is a lot of research to back that up. And ultimately success. They look in the professional people who are able to manage their emotions better and lead to positive emotions, get out of this narrow and constrict to the broaden and build are in the long term more successful. Again, it's not that people who don't have painful emotions-- remember? They are all dead. It's that people who experience painful emotions but are all in the same time able to shift themselves, their consciousness, their thinking, their experience to the positive more readily. And happier people are more successful, because they have more energy and work harder. It's because their pursuing something rather than running away from something-- it is called "approach rather than avoidance goals"-- we'll talk about that during the week on goals. Also because they form better relationships. They are more open and generous. And they are more creative. All these components ultimately lead to higher levels of success. Positive emotions not only contribute to our success, they don't just contribute to our feeling good, they also contribute to our wellbeing. Optimistic people, and again, not Pollyannaish detached optimism, but grounded optimists, on average, live significantly longer. Bless you. The immune system is stronger, so it also helps in terms of physical health. But now the question is the moral question: What about other people? How can I talk about or act in my life, pursuing my happiness isn't that selfish? Ant the answer is: "Yes, it is selfish." When I talk to myself, when I say to myself, "I want to be happier", I say to myself, "I want to be happier." That' s a selfish thing. So it that bad? Is that immoral? Well, in our culture, selfishness and immorality have essentially become synonymous. And that's a problem. And here's why. Because this is the No. 1-- equating to selfishness and immorality is the No. 1 cause-- subconsciously mostly, but not only-- No. 1 cause of unhappiness. Because people feel guilty about pursuing their own happiness. People feel guilty at times feeling good about themselves. How can I? How dare I feel good about myself? How can I pursue my happiness when there is so much suffering in the world? And there is a lot of suffering in the world. So how do we respond to that? First of all, happiness is a positive sum game-- it's not a zero sum game. Neither it is a negative sum game-- it's not that my happiness takes away from other people's happiness which will be a negative sum game: if I have more, you'll necessarily have less. It's not even a zero-- or rather if I have less, you'll have less- that's a negative sum game-- or a zero sum game-- if I have more, you'll have less- it's a fixed pie. It's not that. It's a positive sum game. Why? Because happiness is contagious. If I'm happier, I'm more likely to contribute to other people's happiness and wellbeing. Being happy, in other words, is also a moral state in the sense of actually contributing to other people's wellbeing. The Buddha talked about it thousands of years ago, "Thousands of candles can be lit from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared." It's like passing on light. If you are happy, and work on your happiness, you are contributing indirectly to other people's happiness, just like the baby who laughed last time-- made you laugh. It's contagious. Generally people who work on their happiness-- again, not people who experience constantly high, they would have difficulty having real relationships since they are dead-- but generally, people, those of us who are alive, who work on happiness, who experience the vicissitude of life-- the ups and downs-- but overall work on happiness and become happier and happier, have better relationships, more generous, more accepting of other people, more tolerant of other people as well as themselves. There's a lot of research to show that helping ourselves, in other words, working on our happiness, contributing to our wellbeing, leads us to also be more generous and benevolent toward others. This is a research by one of the leading researchers, one of the first researches in the area of positive emotions, Alice Isen. And she showed, time and again, how feeling good is good for us and good for others, and it works the other way as well. This is a wonderful thing about happiness. It works the other way as well, because helping others also helps ourselves. Remember your task for this week-- a dozen of you have already read it-- it's to commit- above and beyond what you usually commit- five extra acts of kindness during one day. Five extra acts of kindness. This is a research done by Sonja Lyubomirsky-- I mentioned her book in the first class: "The how of happiness". She's done fantastic work, showing how people who help-- whether it's helping five extra acts during the week-- it can be more; doesn't have to be restricted to five-- or people who help five extra acts during one day, it's actually contributing to their wellbeing. So helping others is also helping ourselves. You know, one of the things that I say and only half ingest, is that I know of no more selfish act and a benevolent act. Again, only half ingest-- because the two are interconnected. And there is a self-enforcing loop between the two, where helping others helps ourselves; and helping ourselves, in turn, helps others. And rather than looking it as selfish-- some people may feel this ease way-- and rather than looking it as selfish i.e. -- equal immoral. We should look at it as something that is so wonderful about our nature, a part of our nature that we should celebrate. The fact that our happiness is tied to others, the fact that we are tied to others in a web of empathy-- that's a wonderful thing about human nature. A thing that we need to celebrate much more than we are doing already. Because remember, if we don't celebrate, if we don't appreciate that part of our nature, that part of our nature will depreciate. To appreciate has two meanings as we talked about: one is to say "thank you" for something and two is to grow. If we appreciate the good in our nature, in our inclinations, if we appreciate that part of our nature, it will appreciate and we'll have more of it. If we look down at it and say, "It's a terrible thing that I just derive benefits from helping other people", then that part of our nature will depreciate over time. For your readings, you are reading one of the meditations in my book, where I talk about it a little bit more in length, and I also gave the philosophical foundation, because in many ways this goes against "counting and thinking" that has been so dominant in our 20th and 21st century thinking about morality. It feels good to feel good. It also contributes to others to feel good. I want to end this premise idea by talking a little bit about a person for whom, one of the chief purpose in life was to spread happiness-- Mahatma Gandhi. This is a story about him. There was a woman like many people came to ask for advice from Gandhi. And she came from very far away. And she brought her son along. And she said in front-- she got audience with Mahatma, and she said in front of him, and she said to him "I came from afar, because I have a problem with my son. My son eats way too much sugar. And I'd like you to tell him to stop it. Because it's hurting his health, his teeth. And he will listen to you. He admires you. " Gandhi looked at her and said, "Madam, can you please come back in a month?" She didn't know why but she listened to him after all-- he was Gandhi. She left, went far away, came all the way back a month later, and once again, got an audience with Gandhi. She said in front of him, She said "I was here a month ago." And he said, "Yes. I remember." And she said, "Could you please tell my son to stop eating so much sugar?" So Gandhi looks at the child intensely and says, "Son, stop eating too much sugar." And that's it. The woman is obviously perplexed and musters up her courage, and says, "Mahatma, thank you very much. I'm sure he will stop eating too much sugar, but why couldn't you tell him this a month ago, when I came all the way here?" And he said, "Well, madam, because a month ago, I was eating too much sugar." Yeah, I know, it's a very sophisticated joke-- it takes a while, but I'm glad you got it. One of the things Gandhi said, that he talked about is from his wonderful autobiography, "My experiment with truth"-- "Be the change you want to see in the world." This is how you bring about change. I want to do a quick exercise with you. This is a tough exercise especially for guys, but please bear with me. So-- if you don't feel comfortable doing it, don't do it-- what I'd like to do now is as following: Take your thumb and your middle finger and create as much as possible a 90 degree angle. May hurt a little bit, but try as much as possible to create a 90 degree angle. Ok, watch me: Just like this, Ok? 90 degree angle. Now take these two fingers-- the middle finger and the thumb-- and as much as possible, from that 90 degree angle, create a circle. Again, it's more difficult for men than for women-- less flexible. Create a circle. So it looks like a rabbit. If you have them on the show. Middle finger exactly and your thumb. Alright, just watch me. Like this. As much as possible. It's not perfectly round, but as much as possible. Now take that circle that you have just created-- Can you see? That's a circle. Take that circle and put it on your cheek. Your other cheek. Ok, this could also take a while. But most people from what I see, put it on their chin. Now I said it very clearly, "cheek". But you see, here is the thing: People mostly do what you do, rather than what you say. So remember that, because I don't think there is anyone in this room who would tell me now, "my goal in life, my objective is to make people miserable. I really want to do that. You know I want everyone to be miserable in the world." There is not one person here who would actually say that, I hope. So most of us here, whatever we do in our lives, now and in the future, are idealists. We want to do good in the world; we want to spread happiness. But remember, people do what you do, not what you say. So you may want to spread happiness, through your word. But ultimately, the best way, the optimal way spreading happiness is to work on your own happiness, because then you are leading by example. That applies to leadership. The most important thing about leadership is not what you say; it's what you do. The most important thing about parenting-- it's not how much you tell your child "honesty is important" but rather how honest you are. If you want to spread happiness, "Be the change you want to see in the world." By example. So these are the five basic premises that we talked about. They formed the foundation of the course. And what we are going to do over the next couple of month is expand on these-- most importantly, see how we can take the research, the rigor and apply it to our lives. So let me move on now to the next lecture, which is "Belief as Self-Fulfilling Prophecies". This I must say, this topic ignited my imagination when I was a kid when I thought about it; when I was an athlete. And that's when I understood the power of the mind. And that would pick my interests in psychology. I want to start with a story, a specific story, that in many ways I can say it is the first story, psychological story that I heard of. The story that I heard that brought home to me the message how important psychology is to wellbeing and to success. And success, as a fourteen years-old squash player, was the most important thing in my life. And the story is of Roger Bannister. Just so I get a show of hands: how many people have heard of Roger Bannister? Ok. A handful. So those of you who have, can hear it again. Roger Bannister was a runner. He ran the mile. And until 1954, running the mile in under 4 minutes was considered impossible. In fact, doctors proved the 4 minutes for the mile was the limit of human ability. Physiologists ran tests, showing, proving scientifically the limit of human ability was running the mile in 4 minutes. You could not go below that. And runners proved the doctors and scientists-- proved that they were right and ran the mile in two seconds and 4 minutes, one second, but no runner could run the mile in under 4 minutes, ever since the mile was actually timed-- when they started to time runs. It was impossible-- doctors and scientists showed, runners, athletes, the top-ones in the world proved that the doctors were right. And then came along Roger Bannister. Roger Bannister said, "It is possible to run in 4 minutes. And in fact, I'm going to do it." Now when he said it, he was a medical doctor at Oxford University. He was a good runner, top runner, but nowhere near the 4 minutes mark. His best time was 4 minutes and 12 seconds. And of course, no one took him seriously. But Roger Bannister continued to train and work hard, not harder than the rest of the runners, but as hard as the top runners in the world. And he did get better. In fact, he broke the 4 minutes and 10 seconds mark, 4 minutes and 5 seconds mark and he got 4 minutes and 2 seconds and stopped, like everyone else-- could not go below the 4 minutes and 2 seconds. So he wasn't even the best runner in the world, but among the best. But he continued to say "it is possible; there is no human limitation on that; we can run the mile in under 4 minutes." And he continued to say, continued to train for years. Until 1954. On the 6th of May, 1954, on his home tour at Oxford University, Roger Bannister ran the mile in 3 minutes and 59 seconds. Sensation. Front page news all over the world. "Science defied". "Doctors defied". "The impossible made possible". It became known as the dream mile. Now listen to this. For decades, ever since the mile was timed, no one broke the four minute barrier. It was considered impossible. And on the 6th of May, Roger Bannister does it. Six weeks later, John Landy, the Australian runner, runs the mile in 3 minutes 57.9 seconds. The following year, 1955, 37 runners ran the mile in under 4 minutes. 1956, over 300 runners break the 4 minute barrier. Now what happened? Was it that somebody started to train harder? Of course not. Was it new technologies, new shoes? It wasn't. It was the mind. Look how powerful the mind is. It wasn't the fact that they were running that time and they say "Oops! We are over the speed limit! Let's slow down a little bit." Not at all! They were trying their hardest, their utmost. And yet, their subconscious mind limited them, prevented them from breaking that barrier that happened to be not a physical barrier as doctors, physiologists and scientists had claimed. It was a mental barrier. And what Roger Bannister did was break down the fort, the mental psychological fort. Beliefs are self-fulfilling prophecies. Very often they determine how we perform, how well or how poorly we perform. They often determine how good or not so good our relationships are. They are the No. 1 predictor of life success as well as wellbeing, as we'll talk about. So what we are going to talk about today and next time is how beliefs shape reality. How it works? What is the mechanism, the science behind the power of the mind? Because in many ways, this sounds like mysticism. And part of it is mystical-- still not understandable-- but we are going to talk about as much as we know-- why it works and how it works. There is unfortunately a lot of misunderstanding about optimism. Because the self-help movement in many ways is about telling us how it's all about the power of the mind, talk about "Think and grow rich", the book; we'll talk about the secrets which is about creating our reality through our thoughts. And there's some truth to these-- but only some truth. We are going to bridge Ivory tower and Main Street, and show the science and also the danger behind that belief. Most importantly, how do we apply? How do we enhance the belief in ourselves if there's such high correlation and there's a very high correlation and predictive power to a sense of hope, to a sense of optimism, to beliefs. If they so much determine our outcome, in the athletic field, in the workplace, in a relationship-- if it matters so much, then how can we raise our beliefs? And we'll talk about work by Bandura on self-efficacy, or by Nathaniel Branden on self-esteem. How we can make a dream into reality-- whether it's political dream-- we'll talk about Martin Luther King's dream approach- how he did it and what he did; or a personal dream, where we'll talk about the work of Herbert Benson as well as Bandura. Once again, the Buddha, "We are what we think. All that we are arises with our thoughts. With our thoughts, we make our world." Again, this was a claim made thousands of years ago. What I want to do now is focus on the scientific foundation of this claim. And I'll start by talking about Pygmalion in the classroom. The source of the word, Pygmalion is ancient Greece. Pygmalion was a sculptor. And what he did was when he came of age looking for his ideal woman. He wanted to get married. So he went and looked around Athens where he lived; he looked around the all of Greece; he looked around the Greek Empire; he looked beyond the Greek Empire, looking for his ideal woman-- a woman whom he could marry. And he couldn't find her, no matter where he looked. I mean it's understandable-- this was before 1879 which was when Red Cliff was founded, and long before Harvard became co-ed. So he couldn't find his ideal woman and he went back to Athens. And he said to himself. "Well, instead of finding that ideal woman, I will create a sculpture"-- as he was a sculptor, "I will create a sculpture in her image." And he created that sculpture. And when he looked at her, he was so overwhelmed with emotion and sadness that he couldn't find her, that he began to cry. And then Zeus, Athena and especially Aphrodite, looking down on him, took mercy and brought the statue to life. And of course, they lived happily ever after. So this is the source of the word, Pygmalion. Pygmalion was then taken by George Bernard Shaw, who created a play based on a similar idea which was made into a musical, "My Fair Lady". The idea here is how Higgins, doctor, linguist, took a flower girl and molded her in the sense into being royalty. What of course happened through the story was that she molded him more and transformed him. Fascinating story and very important story at the time. Because it challenged the whole class system, that people are born into a certain place and cannot-- and should not-- be moved. So a very important play at that time, as well as today. About Pygmalion and people can be changed, can be transformed. In the 1960s, Robert Rosenthal who was the head of our department for many years-- he's now in UC Riverside-- took this idea of Pygmalion and applied it in the classroom. Here is what he did. Rosenthal went into a group of random schools. And what he did there was went to the students, had them take a test and then go to their teachers after and tell the teachers, "Your students just took a new test that was devised-- a new academic test which is called "the fast spurters' test". What that means is that we identify students who are going to take a big leap, intellectual leap forward in this coming year, a spurt forward in this coming year. In other words, what he was saying-- it identifies students with highest potential. And what he found then was when he told these students-- the teachers-- what he told these teachers was that "it is just not a FYI-- you cannot tell the students this. We don't want any discrimination in your school, but just so you know, these are your fast spurters. It's a new test, newly devised. Just so you know." Unbeknownst to the teachers, the actual test which was given to those students was a regular off-the-shelf IQ test. Also unbeknownst to the teachers was these students names, who were deemed "the fast spurters"/"high potential students", were literally randomly picked out from a hat. So there were regular students, like all other students, but the teachers thought they were "fast spurters". Robert Rosenthal leaves the school, comes back in the end of the year. And here's what he finds-- he looks at their English scores: the "fast spurters" improved significantly more than any of the other students. He looked at their maths scores, because English is not really objective and you know maybe it was the teachers who thought they were better than they were really. So he looked at their maths, their objective scores. These students improved significantly more than any of the other students. But here is the clincher: Robert Rosenthal administered once again an IQ test for all the students. And what he found was the students who were labeled-- randomly so, but who were labeled-- "fast spurters", their IQ increased significantly over the year and maintained that increase in a longitudinal study. Now this is my bog I mean: IQ is supposed to be in your intelligent quotient that you are born with! It's immutable. It doesn't change from the day you were born to the day you die-- or so they thought. It changed significantly just based the belief that the teacher had in her/his students. Belief as self-fulfilling prophecies. What happened in the study? Was it that the teachers were fooled? And suddenly were made to see an illusion? No. It was that they were alluded before. and the illusion was that they didn't see what is right in front of their very eyes, which is the potential inherent in every single student. And then Robert Rosenthal comes and fools them in a sense, but "fools" them into seeing what has been there all along. Before Rosenthal, they didn't see children on the bus. So to speak. After that, they suddenly in some children saw the potential that was there all along. And they appreciated that potential and that potential appreciated. They watered, they shed a light to it and the seed germinated and grew. This is exactly what Marva Collins does day in and day out in school. She seed the potential that is there; she's not even inventing something. She's not detached from reality. It's rather the people who don't see the potential in other people as well as in themselves as we'll discuss. They are not seeing the full reality. They are only seeing part of it. They are completely missing the children on the bus. And we know how easy it is to miss part of reality, even they are right in front of our very eyes. Or it often takes a question-- it takes on the quest and we miss what we have seen before, whether it was research with at-risk population, whether it was the geometric shapes, whether it was asking only the negative questions about our relationship or about ourselves, or whether it's not seeing the potential that exist in just about all kids. If only we see it. And if we see it, appreciate it, we water it, we shed a light to it, and it appreciates, it grows. So what Rosenthal did was simply shift their attention to something that was there all along. Same in the workplace. Replicated hundreds, thousands of times-- the Pygmalion effect. It was replicated in a workplace where leaders are told or managers are told "these are your top, highest potential employees". And these employees, again, randomly picked, actually became the highest potential employees. And they succeeded much more. Retention went up for them; performance went up; they were more likely to advance in their organization and stay in their organization. Just as result of expectation. The source of works of the other way, Jamison, back in 1997, this fascinating study, where what she said was let's see if it works the other way. So she went to two classes that were taught by the same teacher, and before the classes were started, told just one of the classes that this teacher was ranked extremely highly by other students before, that they, as professional psychologists rated that teacher as extremely high. And they left them. What happened by the end of the year? First of all, the teacher was rated higher by the intervention group than by the control group. But also, the students put in actually more time into the class and they outperformed the control group. Because they believed-- they were made to believe that the teacher was better that supposedly he/she were. In other words, they saw the potent6ial in the teacher. They performed-- not only the teacher; the teacher did perform better-- but the students actually performed better when they had high expectations, when they believed in their teachers. So if you want to do well in 1504-- you'll know what you need to do, right? It works-- beliefs as self-fulfilling prophecies. We create our reality. Goethe, "Treat a man as he is and he will remain as he is. Treat a man as he can and should be, and he shall become as he can and  should be." I want to move on now to a related topic, one that is very important for psychologist but also for you to apply in your life. And that is the importance of situation we create or that is created for us. In many ways, psychologist-- social psychologist for sure-- was sponged by a series of research that was done on the power of the situation, but it was mostly the negative power of the situation. Those of you taken psych 1, those of you haven't, may have heard of the "Asch Conformity Experiment", where people conformed to the idea of the group. Or many of you probably heard of Milgram's "The obedience to authority". If you haven't heard about them, I am not going to go in depth here, read about it. Just Google it. Some of the most important fascinating studies in the field of psychology where a person off the street was told by an experimenter to shock another person, even to the point where the other person is screaming to stop. And because the experimenters were saying the experiment must go on and very often had a white cloak like doctors or experimenters-- a cloak around them. Because they said the experiment must go on, very often, people went-- most people, Americans went on and shocked that person, even to the point of the other person whimpering and begging to be let out, simply because of the word, "the experiment must go on". The power of the situation, obedience to authority-- this was done in order to show how something like the Holocaust could only happen in Germany; how people are more likely to be obedient to authority and what they found globally, worldwide, people have the tendency to be obedient to authority, whether it was in United States or in Germany. Around the world. Same replicated. The power of the situation. Philip Zimbardo's Prison Experiment. This was done at Stanford, where they did was taking-- again, read about it if you haven't; I am not going to go in depth here-- where they took people off the street and had them play the role of either the prison warden, the guard or the prisoner. And the experiment was supposed to go on for two weeks to show what entering a role does. And what they found was after a week, the experiment had to be stopped. Because the wardens-- people off the street, randomly divided- were becoming so oppressive. They humiliated the prisoners who got into their position of being humiliated, just like prisoners often felt. This explains Abu Ghraib. You know, current phenomenon-- what happened in the Iraqi prisons, of how people off the street enter the role-- they entered the role so much that Zimbardo had to stop the experiment after one week. Go on YouTube and watch the video about this mind-boggling stuff. So this is only important, good to know,important to know, but not enough. Because the situation is so powerful, why just emphasize the negative? Why not think about creating positive situations that will help us lead happier, more moral lives? And this has, just like a lot of positive psychological approaches, has been ignored with a ratio 21 to 1. So let me share with you just a couple of studies in this area. Both of them done by our very own Ellen Langer. This, by the way, is the study that I am going to share now is going to be backbone of a movie coming out about Professor Langer-- the person who's going to play Ellen Langer-- she's the first female tenure professor in the psychology department the person who's going to play Ellen Langer is Jennifer Aniston. And the movie is coming out, hopefully in a year, but it's about the experiment that I am going to share with you now. So this was done in 1979. Here was what Langer did. What she did was take men who were above 75 years old and sent them to a retreat, which was a 1959 retreat, meaning-- even though it was 1979-- the music was from 1959, the magazines that they read that were all around were 1959, the daily newspapers were 1959-- everything was 1959. Even they had to go into a role, just like in Zimbardo, they had to play their role of 1959 as if they were 20 years younger. Now of course, it was a psychological experiment, they had all these different measures, taken before/after. And here is what they found. One week. Retreat. At the end of the week, At the end of the week, both mental and biological age decreased. For example, they became more flexible in tests. They became stronger-- their grasp, their legs, their bodies became stronger. Their memory improved significantly, so their intelligence level as taking by tests before and after compared to control group improved significantly after a single week. She measured the distance between the bones in the finger, because when we get older, the space becomes smaller-- they become tighter. The length after a week, increased in their fingers. They became happier. They became more self-sufficient, less dependent on other people as rated by themselves and as rated by their family members. They became healthier. Their eyesight and hearing improved significantly in as little as a week. Just because they entered a powerful, positive situation, which goes against a lot of the stereotypes and prejudices that they encountered in the outside world. So just by "acting" a certain role, they became that role just like Zimbardo's prisoners became their role in as little as a week. Another study that she did-- and this is a report in her book, "Mindfulness", which I highly recommend. She took in and tested people's eyesight. And she gave them a normal eyesight chart, measured them, wrote down their performance. And then she took the exact same people-- this time, put them in a pilot overalls and at the same time put them in a flight simulator and showed them the exact same the eye chart. Same distance, same eye chart, the only difference being they're sitting in a flight simulator and they were wearing pilot overalls. They were sitting there, looking at the eye chart. And again, she ran the eye test. 40% of participants eyesight improved significantly, as a result of just changing the situation. Same distance, same chart, same everything. Different situation. The question is how do we create a positive situation. How can we create a situation that improves us with the role. And I want to share with you couple of studies-- I'll share one study and then another later-- about the environment. First of all, the work of Barge, priming is when we have subconscious or conscious priming. For example, you are looking at a screen and for just a few milliseconds, a word appears. And the word primes you. There is a lot of research on how we can prime your negatively with stereotypes for example, with prejudices. Or positively-- but not enough from positively. So here's a story done by Barge. He primed people with words associated with old. So for example, word such as old, word such as stick, word such as Florida-- that's one of the words he primed people with. So he primed people with "old" words. And then he had them take a comparative and control group an intelligence test and a memory test. The memory of the people who were primed with "old" words. They performed the worst than the control group. Second, he looked at these people and measured how fast they walk from where their experiment was to the elevator. And also had blind evaluators-- people who didn't know which condition they were in, evaluate how they were walking. So the people who were primed with old actually walked more stoop than the other people. And they walk significantly slower toward the elevator, not knowing that they were primed with old words. They walk slower toward the elevator., then the people who were not primed with these old words, subconscious completely. And then they did something priming people with words related to an achievement. The people who were primed, subconsciously with words related to achievement, did better on tests than control group. Their memory improved, and they persisted more on difficult tasks. And the question is-- the thing we'll talk about next time-- is how can we create consciously and subconsciously a positive environment where we actually can take out the most moral, most successful self, to appreciate that self, to help the environment bring out the best in us. Next time. 



 Chapter 5: 乐观主义


Hope you had a wonderful long weekend. So,let's jump right into it. So where did we leave last time? Last time we talked about the power of the situation, we talk about how beliefs become self -fulfilling prophesies. And how it is through the situation that we very often create expectations,believes of people. And these believes become reality. And we talked about how social psychology essentially started with some very important experiment such as the Milgrim effect, or obedience to authority. Such as Zimbardo's prison experiment, where prisoners were put in or played... students play the role of prisoners or the role of wardens and they actually entered that role so totally that after a week the experiment had to be stop, when it was suppose to go on for two weeks. And then the question we asked was, OK,so we know that the situation is powerful. We know that it makes a difference. Can we also create a powerful, positive situation to bring out the best in people? And the answer is yes. And we started talking about it and we talk about professor Langer and her research and how she show that putting um...elderly men in an environment where they were actually or where they acted as if they were 20 years younger actually became younger. To the point of having higher levels of intelligence. To the point of improving their memory. Improving their eyesight,improving their hearing. The distance between the bones in their fingers actually became longer which is a sign of younger age. They were rated by others as well as by themselves as stronger and younger just because they acted as if it was 1959 instead of what it was really was, which was 1979. The power of the positive situation. And then she did another more research on people going for an eyesight test, and put them in a situation in a flight simulator. And the exact same eyesight test, they actually performed better just because of the situation. And we moved on that what we ended last time by talking about priming. Priming is... can be done in the conscious or subconscious level. It means planting a seed,planting a belief,planting a word, or a picture in our mind,consciously or subconsciously. And how that actually influences our behavior. So Bargh,that time of NYU, did the research where he primed to people with words associated with old. Words if you remember such as wrinkles, words such as old,words such as Florida. And as a result of this priming, those participants in the study actually walked slower, or actually were more stooped. When evaluated by researchers who were not aware of their condition,meaning they didn't know whether they were primed with control words, just random words,or with words associated with old. So it was just through the priming that people actually started to behave differently. The power of the situation. The power of the environment. And then Bargh took it step further and said, OK,let's prime the with positive primes such as achievement, such as persistence,such as success. These words,for example, they had to find a synonym for the word achievement. Those who are primed with these words on intelligence test and on memory test actually performed better than the control group who wasn't primed with these words. Two Dutch researchers - Dijksterhuis & Knippensberg, what they found was that they brought people, and they ask them to describe for future experiment, not for that experiment. For a future experiment,ask them to describe the typical day or typical characteristics of three archetypes - a soccer hooligan,a secretary and a professor. Describe these three archetypes. And they told them this is for the next experiment where we just want people to evaluate these archetypes. Not knowing that actually by describing these archetypes, these individuals were primed. They were primed for a soccer hooligan,for a secretary, or for a professor. And then they have to do intelligence tests afterwards, memory test after those primes. Those who had to describe the day of soccer hooligan performed the worse. In terms of memory. In term of intelligence. Then there was the secretary and those who performed the best were those who described the professor. Now they didn't study any harder before. Nothing changed except for the fact that there was a prime,that there was something planted from the environment in their minds. The question then is, how can we create a positive environment for ourselves, where we are primed by the positive,where we can be happier, more successful and so on. And there's many ways in which we can do it. Let me share a few. In fact there's going to be your assignment for this week, or one of the assignments to create a positive environment. So you are some of the examples. Have pictures of people you love or places you love,the importance of these things is that even if you don't see them, you see them. So on the subconscious level it's still there. Even though on the subconscious level, when people are primed,they don't really see...the word, say achievement on the screen,when it's there for 25 mini-second, they don't really see it,but it registers. So even if a picture is there and you don't "really" see it or not really conscious of it,mindful of it, it still has a impact on you. So have pictures of people you love, have pleasant object,whether it's memorabilia, whether it's flowers,whether it's art,your favorite art. So I have in my house,and my office, my favorite art on the wall,by my favorite artists. And let me share with you a few. I actually brought them here. These are very valuable. I insured them,so it's not a problem. So... so this is,um, this specific artist from the first phase of his career, as you can see,you know,very powerful strokes, very intense,very deliberate,and just gorgeous. And here is, by the same artist from the second phase of his career. Here you already begin to see impressionist influence on his work. But still,you know you see the same trait, the same power,the same intensity. So I have these on my wall. There's a new and upcoming artist who I want to introduce you to. She still doesn't have a second phase, you know,she's only one year's old. But,you know,this is a work done with the help of her Mom. But again,these are on my wall and they remind me everyday even I've seen them hundreds of time, it's still there and I think about my kids. And I also have other,you know, less known artists' work on my wall. Again,this is,probably not heard of this one, um,this is Rodin,The Thinker. And,so I have this on my wall,it's my favorite sculpture. And then I have another piece by Rodin just to remind me that it's not all about thinking,there are other things that make life make life worth living. So this is Rodin's The Kiss,for those of you who know it. And again have these things on your wall create(s) the environment where you feel warm, where it's fun for you to be there. Quotes,you know I love quotes, and I know that many of you love quotes. Some of you have sent me your favorite quotes. I have on my wall a list of quotes and they are there even if I don't see them,I see them. So for example,let's see if I brought some here. Yes,here they are. So one is by John Quincy Adams. "Patience and perseverance have a magical effect before which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish". So priming the issue of persistence, by the way which is one thing that Bargh did it. He primed that and people actually became more persistent. George Eliot,or also known as Mary Anne Evens, my favorite author. She wrote," The important work of moving the world forward does not wait to be done by perfect men". I'll talk about perfectionism which is a very important, very personal thing for me in about three weeks. So she is a very much a role model. Camus,"In the depth of winter,I finally learned that there was within me an invincible summer". A quote that has helped me through difficult,through hard times. Henry David Thoreau, "If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with success,unexpected in common hours ". Again,I have these quotes up on my wall,and a few others, that many of the quotes that you've seen in the course. And they prime me,they remind me, they create the environment for me. We'll talk about art in the next section,and its importance. Have you favorite books next to you. Listen to music, but listen to it mindfully, not just as background music but the music that inspires you, whether it's rocky,whether it's Eminem,whoever it is. Watch films that inspire you, all these things help you to create an environment that is conducive to growth,to success,to well being. A lot of this is done on the subconscious level which is the power of the priming. A priming studies. And finally this is what positive research is about. If we constantly focus on "negative" research,anxiety, depression,schizophrenia,we are primed by this research, we are primed by this work. And it creates reality. You know,this indirectly and conjunctionally relates to, some of you may know,the Isenberg principle, is that when you measure a phenomenon, you are changing the phenomenon; when you are measuring a phenomenon, you are also changing yourself. So by researching the positive we are also priming ourselves with the positive. Now,a lot of this work that I'm talking about today and I'll talk about next time actually comes from the self-help movement. In many ways the self-help movement was founded, was started in the 20th century... was started with the understanding that we create the world through our thinking,that our mind creates the world. And books like these came out,back in the 1930's, Thinking Grow Rich. This book since 1930's sold over 60 million copies. It's still selling. It's selling,it's the best seller in the US, it's the best seller in China,in India, it's the best seller in Africa,it's the best seller in Europe. It has an impact on people and here's one of the things that Napoleon Hill says, "Whatever your mind can conceive and believe,it can achieve." Whatever your mind can conceive and believe,it can achieve. Very empowering. And this had an impact on many different people,on the masses, again,60 million copies,one of the best sellers in history. Henry Ford had a similar idea, "Whether you think you can or can't,you are right." And people were drawn to this message. Why? Because it's empowering, because it makes them feel that things are possible. Another very influential book, The Power of Positive Thinking,Norman Vincent Peale. "Have great hopes and dare to go all out for them. Have great dreams and dare to live them. Have tremendous expectations and believe in them." How inspiring for people to hear that, all you need to do is think, all you need to do is believe,and affluence will come to you. Whether it's intrapersonal affluence, whether it's monetary affluence. And this is been the message that has drawn the masses and continues to do so today. The best selling book today, No.1 best seller all over the world,that's right,The Secret. The secret to success is,what they call,the law of attraction. The law of attraction is that you attract to your life whatever you imaging,whatever you believe it. Again,a powerful message, millions and millions of copies of this book being sold. As we speak,continue to be sold. And the message is again simple: believe,and you will achieve; conceive,and it will be conceived. In reality,in the world,it will come to you. Very convincing,very inspiring message. But,is this message right? Well,we talked about this and we saw the Roger Bannister story. You know one day,or six weeks after Roger Bannister runs a mile in 4 minutes,or in 3'59,John Landy runs it in 3'57.9. The year after 37 runners run the mile in under 4 minutes. So there is something to it. Once they believed it was possible,it became possible. And here is the issue, with much of what's going on in the self-help today, self-help realm today,it draws on a truth, a real truth and then blows it out of proportion. So yes, there is some truth in the fact that our mind creates reality. But that's only part of the truth. We create reality or rather we co-create reality. There has to be something out there or in there, for example,when it comes to The Secret. If you believe that you are likely to succeed, you are much more likely to succeed. But that has to come with a lot of hard work and persistence, it has to come with a lot of failure, and learning from that failure. So it's just half of the equation and what these self-help books and messages do is overpromise and under-deliver, which at times can be destructive. For example,if everything is based on the law of attraction. I created everything that everything is up to me and also everything is my fault. Even taking to the extreme, is a 3 years old girl responsible for being abused? Is a 30 years old man responsible for being paralyzed as a result of an accident by a drunken driver? There are certain things that are out there and when we say that everything is up to us, everything is created by the law of attraction, then it's a prescription maybe in the short term for inspiration and for belief and for wellbeing,but in the long term, it's for frustration,for guilt,and for unhappiness. And also for less success because if I really believe that it's all about thinking, then this is going to be my mind set. All I need to do is believe and then all the money will come to me. All the success in a relationship will come to me. And that does away with the hard work, with the persistence,with the failure that is necessary, part and parcel of a successful,happy,fulfilling,human life. I want to show you a quick video. This is of an ad I saw online and I actually called the Royal Bank on Scotland and asked them to send me the original. Because it captures some of the misunderstanding that there is today about the power of the mind. Just a very cute ad. Douglas from the conference. - James Aderson. - Oh,yeah. That's a lot of green. What kind of bird is it? - What's that?   - I don't know. It's ok guys! I've done a course. -What? -Positive thinking. Positive thought makes a positive impact. OK? Positive thought has a positive impact. Look at me. That's right. Okay,come on. (Emergency Start) Talk is no substitute for action. That's the power. Make it happen. The Royal Bank of Scotland Group. - I am good. - Yes,you are. It captures part of the truth but not the whole truth. So let's see what serious research has to say about the power of the mind. A real phenomenon,actual phenomenon,but one that we need to also apply real research to see what works. Albert Bandura,on your reading about for this week, has done a lot of work on the concept of self-efficacy which is essentially the academic term for believing in oneself. And here is what he writes after decades and decades of research. He by the way won the researcher's prize for the positive psychologists last year so he's doing a lot of research in this area. He's from Stanford. "Beliefs in personal efficacy affect life choices, level of motivation,quality of functioning,resilience to adversity and vulnerability to stress and depression." Those you believe in themselves,who have confidence, do well across the different areas in their lives,He continues, "People who regard themselves as highly efficacious act,think, and feel differently from those who perceive themselves as inefficacious. They produce their own future,rather than simply foretell it." In other words,what he's talking about here is that these people are scribed in their lives. They create their own lives as oppose to those that are being prescribed by others. They are more resilient, better able to deal with hardships and difficulties. In other words,better capacity as we discussed earlier to deal with difficulties. Now the important thing about this research, in his research over the years is that it can be learned. It's cultivated over time. So it would be useless if,in terms of research, at least for us if he would say, well,some people are born with it,and others are not. Some people are born with,what they started to talk about, the resilience gene,and others are not born with that. But that's not the case. What he has shown is that it can be learned. It takes time,it takes effort, and we will talk about later how we do it. But the important thing,it's malleable. We can do something about it. Other research by Curry on college athletes, I know there are many athletes in this room. She showed that 56% of your successes as an athlete, once you start being an athlete,is determined by levels of hope, by how much you believe that you are going to succeed. Remember from very first or second class where I talked about the research by John Carter, about the business...HBS graduates. Where he predicted... where the two things predicted success in the long term, extraordinary success of these grads. One was that they were constantly asking questions, and two was that they believed in themselves. They thought they could do well. But it's important to also realize that it's not 100 percent of the variances that was explained, by hope,or by belief,or by optimism, as many of the self-help books would have us believe. But it's certainly part of the equation of success. Nathaniel Branden has been a therapist for fifty years; he's done a lot of rigorous philosophical and psychological research and work on the concept of self-esteem. We'll visit him more in-depth when we talk about, when we have the week on self-esteem. But for now,just a quick quote: "the level of our self-esteem,in another words, the level of our belief in ourselves, has profound consequences for every aspect of our existence: how we operate in the workplace,how we deal with people, how high we are likely to rise,how much we are likely to achieve and,in the personal realm, with whom we are likely to fall in love, how we interact with our spouse,children,and friends, what level of personal happiness we attain." Very low levels of correlation between material affluence and wellbeing, or between where we live and wellbeing, very high correlation between self-esteem and wellbeing. In most research what we found is a 0.7 correlation between the two constructs. This is what I found in my dissertation as well. So self-esteem matters. The internal matters and what we are doing when we enhance when we raise our levels of belief in ourselves is we are transforming our mind,we are changing the form, so that we see we interact,we see the world differently, we perceive different things, we experience things in a different way. Whether it's successes that we then celebrate, or failures that we then learn from and turn into opportunities. But so much of it is about what we have inside here. Branden,"self-concept is destiny." Very similar to"whatever your mind can conceive,it can achieve" from Napoleon Hill. The only difference being that he also puts a lot of rigorous thinking and research there and shows the limitation of the belief. Here is another example of research done in the area which most people know about. The Placebo effect. You go to the doctor,you have a headache, the doctor tells you: here I have a pill for you. The best thing. Just came out recently. Will help you get over the headache. Gives you the pill. You get over the headache. Unbeknownst to you,what she gave you was,a sugar pill. But because you thought, because you believed that it would help your headache, it actually did help your headache. Real phenomena medicine. So Herbert Benson,from the across the river, from the medical school here, has done a lot of research in this area. Let me share with you just two of his studies. What Benson did was bringing women who had, who were pregnant,and who had stomach problems... they were vomiting,they were throwing up,they were nauseous, something which is relatively common especially in the first trimester of pregnancy. So he brought them in and told them, "I have this new pill for you that will help you overcome your stomach distress. You won't throw up any more after; this is a very powerful and good pill." So he gave them that pill and they got over their stomach distress,they were better. They didn't know of course this was just a placebo drug, just a sugar pill. Then he took it step further, brought in another group of women with the exact same stomach distress,with the same vomiting. Gave them the pill, he told them would help them overcome their stomach distress. Only this time,instead of a sugar pill, he actually gave them small dosage, not dangerous but small dosage of ipecac. Now those of you who know what ipecac is... It's a drug that we take if we want to throw up. So if we have food poisoning, we take these drugs and it will actually elicit vomiting. So he gave them this drug and again, this passed all the ethic reviews and was not dangerous,you know But that's what he did. And these women were told that they'd get better. And they did get better. Not only did they not vomit as they should have done, more so with the ipecac,they actually stopped. Let me read to you an excerpt from his book, which I highly recommend,Timeless Healing. I quote,"Remarkably,the patients' nausea and vomiting ceased entirely and their stomach contractions, as measured through the balloons,returned to normal. Because they believed they received anti-nausea medicine, the women reversed the proven action of a powerful drug. Even though many of us stock our medicine cabinets and first aid kits with ipecac to bring about vomiting in case of poisoning, these pregnant women with documented stomach distress thwarted the action of a drug that should have made them even sicker. With belief alone,they cured themselves." Now,this doesn't mean that drugs don't have an effect. You know,I don't recommend going home now and, you know,giving your roommates, you know,ipecac or even worse cyanide and then tell them this is actually Vitamin C. they will probably not feel better or healthier as a result. But what this experiment dose, and many others like it show is that powerful effect of the mind which we shouldn't discard. We need to study it and understand. Well,here is another experiment that Benson writes about in his book. This was done in Japan. So,people who are allergic to a specific plant were brought into a lab,had their eyes closed,and then, they had these plant touch their forearm, and then they had another plant touch their other forearm, and they didn't know which was which. And of course that plant that they were allergic to, the arm flared up. They were allergic to it after all. But then,their was a second condition, these people were told that the actual drug(plant) that they are allergic to touched their left hand, and another plant that they were not allergic to touched their right hand. But Benson reversed the effect, so actually the plant that they were allergic to touched their right hand,and the plant that they were not allergic to touched their left hand. So they were supposed to flare up on the right,not on the left. But because they believed that the allergic plant was on the left,their left hand flared up, their right hand did not. Based on the power of the mind. Once again,this does not mean that the external doesn't matter and that we attracted everything that we want to into our lives, but it does mean that the mind plays a very important role in creating our physical,certainly emotional, cognitive as well as external reality. Beliefs very often become self-fulfilling prophecies. But how does it work? How does it work? Let me share with you this model that I created based on a lot of research in the field. That essentially tries to explain how our beliefs, our expectations impact our performance. Whether it's through the placebo drug, whether it's our performance in school,in sports, in relationships,in every area in our lives. In other words,what comes in the box here? Or in the...over here? What comes,what mediate between beliefs, expectations and actual performance in the real world? I want to talk about two mechanisms. The first one is very straight forward, relatively simple,it's motivation. So,if I believe that I can do well, and think about your own past experiences, when you believe that you could do well in something, you are much more likely to be motivated than if you think that you are hopeless and have no chance, you are much more likely to resign and not do anything. You are much more likely to be motivated before the event whatever the event may be,in training,in practice, as well as during the event,while it's taking place. Think about what Marva Collins did. She motivated her students, she made them believe that they could achieve, that they could make something out of their lives and that it's their responsibility that it was up to them, and that made all the difference for them. Because they were motivated,they worked hard. So motivation makes a difference. There is another thing though,in addition to motivation, and that is the notion of consistency or congruence. What dose that mean? You see,we all have a mental schema of the world, a mental schema of the way the world should be,or to be or is. For example,I have a mental schema that suggests that things fall when left in middle air. So I have a schema that says that if I dropped this, it would actually fall. I have a schema about my ability in mathematics that I might be a good mathematician, that I have potential in this area or not. I also have the schema about other people. I like this person. That person is a nice person versus this person is just not nice,cruel. So we have schemas about other people, about ourselves,about natural phenomenon. This is inside,the schema. And then,there is the outside world. In the outside world,actual things take place. For example,when this is left in middle air,it falls. This is,has nothing to do with my schema. It's outside. It happens regardless of my schema. Now I have certain potential in mathematics regardless of my schema. A certain person behaves generously and benevolently toward other people or in a hateful manner toward other people regardless of my schema. So there is what's inside and what is outside, and here is the key point. You see,the mind dose not like when there is a discrepancy between what is inside and what is outside. The mind likes when there is consistency, congruence between the two,and if there is no congruence, if there is no consistency, then we experience a sense of dissidence, then we experience disease. Doesn't feel good,doesn't feel right and we do,very often, everything that we can to get the two on par again. Either by changing the external reality or by changing our mind to match the external reality. We don't like when there is inconsistency. There are a few ways in which we can create this consistency again. Let me share with you just some of them, and I'm gonna share four. They are interconnected. There is relationship between. there is overlap, but just so it helps you to think about it. That helps you understand the dialogue that takes place between what is inside or what is inside and what is outside. So the first thing we can do when there is a discrepancy, when there is inconsistency between the two is update schema. This is the first thing we can do. So,I didn't know things fell when left in middle air, now I know,I updated my schema. Or,I thought that person was actually hateful, but I just saw him behave generously and benevolently, now I update my schema,he's a nice person. The second thing that we do, which happens much more often than the first one, is ignore or discard in external information. We ignore and discard external information that doesn't match our schema. We don't like this inconsistency, we just throw this inconsistency out, so to speak,by ignoring it,discarding it. The third thing we do, we actively seek confirmation. We actively seek confirmatory data. I mean,think about No.2 and 3,think about in the real you know we are in the midst of election year. Think about the person you are not going to vote for, or the person you didn't vote for. What we do? Very often,let's say, I see President Bush doing something good, actually fighting for a cause that I believe in. But I didn't vote Bush,for instance. Very often what I would do is ignore and discard that information, and then look for confirming evidence that will suggest...or that will confirm to me why I don't like Bush in the first place. This same regarding,say the future elections,Hillary or Obama. If I dislike them,I would look for confirming evidence why I dislike them and even if they do things that I like and value and believe in, I very often will ignore these things and discard them. And what you are doing here,you are creating a reality because you are asking a question such as where has Bush done terrible things or where has Hillary or Obama did terrible things? And when we ask these questions, we completely ignore,discard,not see the positives. Remember when I ask you about the geometric shapes? You didn't see the children on the bus. Even though they were right there in front your very eyes. So we know that questions create reality, and in order to maintain this consistency, we do very often one of these two things. Either ignore and discard,or seek confirming evidence, positive or negative to back up our schema. Hillary,Obama is good or Bush is good or whatever it is that we are thinking about. The fourth thing is much more directly,creating a new reality. What kind of reality existed before the 6th of May,1954? It was reality in which four minutes was the limit of human ability. And what did Edison do,sorry,what did Bannister do? He said it's possible and then he changed the external reality. Not just for himself,but also for other runners in the world. And suddenly a new reality was created. Initially the schema was four minutes is not possible, or rather four minutes is not possible and everyone adhered to this schema. Roger Bannister came and said,it is possible, and changed that reality,not just for himself, but for other runners who were there. The thing though is,that after we perform with high motivation, low motivation might looking for consistency. All that is left us to do is interpret our performance. Was it successful or not successful,and good or bad? And there are two forms of interpretation. One is the objective interpretation, did I just give A in an exam or did I get a C. Did I just come third or did I come last in their race. Did I just be Princeton in hockey on Friday? Or did I lose to Princeton? Go Harvard. So what happen? This is the reality. It's objective,its objective. But then, there is also the subjective interpretation based on my beliefs. Let me share an example with you... This is a story told about Thomas Edison. Thomas Edison,back in the 1870's, was working along with the rest of the scientific community on the light bulb,on generating light from electricity. The entire scientific community or much of it was working on that,on that issue,with no success, Thomas Edison being no exception. A journalist from one of the local papers came to Thomas Edison to interview. He was already famous by then,he invented many things. And they were talking about various things and then they got to talk about the light bulb. And the journalist said to Edison,"Mr. Edison, you've been working on the light bulb for many years. The rest of the scientific community has been working on it, to no avail." Now at that point Thomas Edison had conducted 5000 experiments, so,and the journalist knew that so he told Edison, "Mr. Edison,you've conducted 5000 experiments, and you failed 5000 times. Give it up." Now Thomas Edison,some of you may know was also hard of hearing,in fact one of his patents was a hearing aid. So he said to the journalist," Excuse me,what did you say?" The journalist said,"well,I said you failed 5000 times, give it up." So Edison responded,"I didn't fail 5000 times. I succeeded 5000 times. I succeeded in showing what doesn't work." Same objective reality,performance,5000 failed experiments, but very different interpretation. The journalist and many other people in the scientific community conclude its not possible, the interpretation,subjective interpretation of Edison it's just another stepping stone towards success because it is possible. In fact,Edison declared,before he had the light bulb, that on the 31st of December,1879, he would display the light bulb. That was long before he had done it. On the 31st of December,1879,Edison displayed to the world, generating light from electricity. Just like in 1962,John F. Kennedy said that there would be a man on the moon by the end of the decade. And there was before we had the materials necessary for doing it, before we had other technology necessary for doing it. He threw his knapsack over the world and said it's possible to do it. And that created a reality. That was coupled with a lot of hard work. Edison in fact failed more that 5000 more times before he actually created the light bulb. It wasn't just sitting his room and saying, "I believe therefore I will achieve." It was I believe and I will work even harder now, with more motivation and so on. One of his mantras,"I failed my way to success." It is no coincidence that Edison,by far the most creative and productive scientific genius of all time. he patented 1097 patents in his career. Much of our world looks the way it looks, thanks to him. No coincidence,but the most successful, creative scientist in history is also,as far as we know, the scientist who had failed the most times. Research by Dean Simonton,we'll talk about it more depth when we talked about perfectionism. Research by Dean Simonton shows that the most successful scientists and artists through our history were also the ones who failed the most times. No coincidence that "Babe" Ruth,who hit during many of the years when he played the most homeruns,also hit the most strike outs. In five of these seasons,was strike out the most times rather. The most successful people in history are also very often, the people who had failed the most times. This is a sentence that I'll repeat it over and over again in the class and here it is: learn to fail,or fail to learn. Learn to fail,or fail to learn, there is no other way to succeed. There is no other way to learn,in terms of how to work, and there is no other way to learn in terms of learning how to succeed as scientist,or as a politician,or as an artist. The artists,as Dean Simonton showed,who had the most dubs, the most failed attempts through out history were also the artists who were the most successful in the long run. No short cuts. It's not enough to just sit down and think, and conceive and believe. We need to do much more than that. Martin Seligman,considered father of positive psychology, has done a lot of work on optimism and pessimism. And here is what he found. What he found was that when it comes to goal setting, pessimists are realistic in terms of their short term goals as well as in terms of their long term goals. That's good thing to be a realistic. Short term goal as well as long term goal realistic. Where as optimists are realistic,sorry,optimists on the other hand,are unrealistic when it comes to their short term goals, but are realistic when it comes to their long term goals. Why is that? Well,let's look at the model again. So let's take the pessimists first. They have certain goal,and they have low expectations, low levels of beliefs,they don't think they would do well. Low levels of motivation,their mind looks for consistency, and their performance is usually according to their beliefs and expectations. And the interpretation is,I told you so. I told you I couldn't do well here. And then everyone else in a chorus says,yes,you told us so. How wonderfully realistic of you. But then sometimes a pessimist succeeds beyond his or her expectations. And then what happens? The interpretation is,low levels of beliefs, so the interpretation is,well,it was lucky, it was because Mars was in front of Venus, and that only happens once every 50 years,won't happen again. Or,it was my lucky day,or,she just played very poorly today. And then,the mind looking for consistency, they go around that loop again and again, and then become realistic once more. Unsuccessfully realistic,but realistic. So they're realistic in the short term as well as in the long term. Let's look at the optimist now. The optimist starts with high levels of beliefs, high levels of expectations,motivation,incredibly high. The mind looking for consistency,performance,not so good, not as good as the expectations were. In other words,unrealistic. However,the interpretation,because of high levels of beliefs, the subjective interpretation is, OK,so,what if I learn from it? This is an opportunity; I've actually got better this time. What if I learn? And they still have high levels of beliefs and high levels of expectations. Motivation is high,the mind looks for consistency, they perform,still not good, not as good as they expected,unrealistic. But the interpretation,still,what if I learn from it? I've gone even better this time. I've shown what doesn't work. And they continue. But then comes the quarrels from the outside and says, "come on,really,why can't you be realistic like your good brother or sister,the pessimist." But they believed that they can do it, and they continue to persist and to work hard again and again. 5 times,10 times,sometimes 5000 even 10000 times, until they bring the "unrealistic reality" and make it realistic to match their beliefs over time. So even though in the short term,the reality may not match, I may run the mile for the next 10 years in 4 minutes and 12 seconds or 4 minutes and 2 seconds. But I'll get there eventually and make my unrealistic "expectations" and goals realistic. Through a lot of failure,through a lot of hard work, through a lot of persistence. What Seligman shows about optimism and pessimism is not that it's not just some pollyannaish feel-good, you know conceive and believe,kind of approach. Rather,it's about how we interpret events. So for example,how do I interpret my failure? As end of the story,catastrophe, give it up? Or as an opportunity for success? So he distinguishes,and we'll talk about it more next time, he distinguishes between interpreting an event as permanent or temporary. I just didn't create light from electricity,so that could mean, well,it's not possible and I'll never do it or it could mean, well,this is another step towards success: showing what doesn't work. I've just being turned down from a job that I wanted, well,it means I'll never find a job or that's a temporary setback. Let's see what I can learn. Let's see how I can home my search and find, eventually,my ideal position. It's also about being pervasive or specific. Pessimists look at things that's being... the negatives,being pervasive. Well,I'm just not a good scientist versus... well,I just wasn't able to get this experiment right this time. Or if I get a poor grade on an exam,I'm just stupid. Pervasive,everything,all or nothing. Versus I just didn't do well here on this specific exam. What can I learn from it and how can I do better next time. This is what optimism and pessimism is. And it can be learned. A lot of research in this area...showing how learning to interpret events subjectively as optimists leads to much higher success. Some of you may recognize Matt Biondi. 1988 Seoul Olympics. Many people thought that he could equal Mark Spitz records of seven gold medals. First race,silver medal. Huge disappointment. Second race,bronze medal. Huge disappointment. Everyone I remembered that very distinctly. People talking about how he falls under pressure, how he is not the person we thought he is. Martin Seligman at that point said "no,he's going to succeed" Why? Because he measured him and many other athletes on their levels of optimism and pessimism. And Matt Biondi was a constant optimist. And he knew he would interpret these "failures",I mean,you know bronze and silver medals in the Olympics,failures,right? But these relative for him expected to win seven golds,failures, he would interpret them not as permanent. "I choke. I can't make it in the Olympics" as pervasive "I can't swim well anymore and win" to temporary and specific,which he did exactly that and won the next five gold medals. Surprising many people,not Seligman and his research team who knew exactly what his interpretation style would be following these "failures". Also it associated with social and physical mental health. For example,our immune system,psychological and physical immune system is actually stronger as a result of being optimists. Resilience levels,a lot of research by Karen Reivich shows that if you teach people to interpret things positively, optimistically,they are much more likely to succeed. Those of you who are interested in more about this,her book, The Resilience Factor,Karen Reivich,fantastic book, where she talks about programs implemented where within a few weeks kids are immune to the experience of depression two years hence... People who learn to be optimistic and she teaches them in a short period as two weeks compare that to the five years of the Cambridge Summerville Study. Within as little as two weeks,people who were taught optimistic interpretation style become happier, those who learn it are eight times less likely to experience depression. Eight times less likely to experience depression, if you simply learn a different interpretation style. I haven't failed 5000 times; I've succeeded in showing what doesn't work. So what if I didn't do well now, I will do better next time or the time after that. People who learn to interpret things more positively actually live longer. And we'll talk about some of this research. You'll read about a bit of it,the Nun Study and so on. People who interpret things positively or more optimistic actually live longer. Now that does not mean that all pessimists die young and all optimists die old. That's just one of the factors that goes into the equation, there's many other things. You know,you don't want,there is also unrealistic optimism that we'll talked about it in a minute. You know a person is optimist and says, "I'll live to 120 no matter what"and smokes,you know, 120 cigarettes a day would probably not live to 120. So it's not just about the belief,but a lot of it is. And finally,as I mentioned time and again,it can be learned, and we'll talk about how it can be learned and how we can learn, and you'll do it whether it's in your response paper, not for this week,but for the next week, as well as in sections,as well as by yourselves. A technique that can be learned and can have all these positive effects. Okay. There's a problem here though. You know,how do I distinguish between this and realistic optimism and unrealistic optimism. Detached optimism that is advocated in for example for self-help movement. Is everything that I think of I achieve and conceive and becomes a reality? Is my self-concept my destiny and my only destiny? Or is there such a thing as unrealistic beliefs? And there is such a thing as unrealistic beliefs. Here is an example. Her name was Rena,she was a showgirl,at least to me,she was. Rena and I had a great deal in common. We were both in our teens, I was twelve. She was fourteen. We both were in our fives. She was 5'6. I was 5'1. I was in love with Rena. Rena too was in love with herself. Now,just as a side note,I have a wonderful mother, and amazing mother who believes in me. And in fact when the three of us. We were three brothers and sisters would come home from school. We would very often talked to our mom about everything that was going on in school,good and bad. So I came home after I realized that I was truly and madly in love with Rena and that she was the one for me. I came home and talked to my mom about it. And I told her,"Mom,I love her so." So she said," what's the problem?" And I explained to her that she was older that I was and all the big boys in the school were interested in her, that she was much taller than I was. And my mother believed in me and went on self-fulfilling prophecy campaign. And though she had never read Napoleon Hill, she said to me,"Tal,whatever you conceive, whatever you believe,you can achieve." And though she had never read Branden,she said to me, "Tal,your self-concept is destiny. And Rena is your destiny." And she told me that if I truly,truly believed that I could, that Rena would want me. She really would want me. And my mom inspired me and made me believe in myself. So I went ahead to approach Rena,and I prepared for it. I really prepared for it. Though I wasn't shaving at that time,I put on aftershave. And I continued. I can do it. I know I can. And I approach Rena,but then the music stopped. And though I had very high expectations, and though I envisioned success. I closed my eyes and I saw myself succeeding. She was not interested. She didn't want me. However,however,we became very good friends. In fact so good that she would tell me about all her shallow and tall boyfriends. Now when my mom told me that she really believed in it, that she thought I was,you know that she told me this in Yiddish and she said "foreign language" which means in Yiddish "you're a big find." I was really my,you know,really, I was my Jewish mother's kosher Pygmalion. So bad,yeah. You know,that took me a lot of time to think about, you'd better appreciate it. But...thank you,thank you. But it didn't work. And again,don't get me wrong,I'm very grateful to my mom. I literally had 24/7 Marva Collins in my house. I owe so much to my mom. However,in this case, it probably was not the realistic belief. So what is realistic? How do we identify what is realistic and what is not? Here are some ideas to help us do so. The Stockdale paradox. It's about finding the tension, reconciling the tension and it's not easy. Again,I'm not going to give you a formula now to tell you: OK,here is...calculate this,and if it's above seven, go ahead with green; below seven,probably not so. There is no formula. But here is,just a heuristic, something to think about when you think about beliefs. James Stockdale was admiral. James Stockdale was the highest ranking prisoner of war in the... in the Vietnam War. And he started to notice a phenomenon. He was there for years. Eventually got out and live to tell the tale many others did not. And he saw many people survive,many people not survive. The very harsh conditions of the prisoner. What he was that the people who survived had two characteristics. First of all,they believed that they would get out, they had faith that one day they would be free. They would get to see their family,their friends. And this faith kept them going. At the same time,and this is the second component, they had realistic beliefs and evaluation of the situation. If any one of these two components were missing, they were unlikely to survive. If they didn't have faith and they didn't believed it they would survive,they were very likely to die in the harsh conditions. On the other hand,if they thought that they would get out by this coming Christmas,and really believed that they would get out by this coming Christmas, they were also less likely to survive. Because they didn't get out by this coming Christmas, and then they were desponded,resigned,helpless, and very often,they died. So it was the two components,believe that you would get out, but at the same time know that you need to deal with reality and that it's tough. Here is what James Stockdale said, "you must never confuse faith that you would prevail in the end which you can never afford to lose with the discipline to confront the most brutal facts of your current reality whatever they might be." Realistic optimism. Now the thing is that you may be wrong at times. And sometimes you may really believe in something, and believe it that you have realistic expectations and not succeed. But as we talked about...And as we'll talk about in a few minutes, it doesn't matter that much. Because even if we don't success we just bounce back up. And continue working hard. The key though is as much as possible,to attain this balance. What Maslow calls The Graceful Integration between high level of beliefs and connection to reality. No prescription here. But just a heuristic,something to keep in mind. Positive thinking is not THE secret. Yes,it's part of the secret. Yes,it's part of the success formula. Yes,it's part of the happiness formula. But it's not all. False optimism sooner or later means disillusionment, anger and hopelessness. Here is the secret of success. This is the secret proven by research. Thousand of years of research and successful people in different cultures,in different places and in different ages. It's optimism,passion and hard work. It'll be very hard for you to find successful men and women through out history who did not have all three. Optimism,belief,faith that they can do well, that they can succeed. Passion,love for what they were doing. And hard work. There is no substitute for hard work as Edison said. These 3 components. The secret...simple,straighforward. You know it all. Remember what I said during 2nd class. I'm not going to teach you much new. I hope to remind you what you already know. Optimism,passion and hard work. Does luck play a role? Absolutely. Jefferson,"I am a great believer in luck, and I find that the harder I work,the luckier I get." There is actually science behind luck. And you'll read about it in the Luck Factor. Where people who have these 3 components, who believe they can do well, who love what they do and work hard, actually find more luck. In the words of Thoreau in Common Hours. Okay,so why don't all the parents teach us to have high expectations? If it's so good for us,if it's related to success, to happiness,to physical well-being, why don't all our parents just say to us whatever we work, you can succeed,you can do it. If you dream about it,you can do it. Why did very often parents and people who care about us lower our expectations? Because they are concerned about our happiness. They are concerned about our self esteem. You see,there is a lot of belief...People believe that high expectations naturally lead to disappointment. So...high expectations lead to disappointment. And it sounds right. I mean,this is the formula that was written in the 19th century by William James. He said that self-esteem is equal to our success over pretensions. In other words,our achievement... how much we succeed,how much we achieve over what we pretend or what we aspire to,what our goals are. In other words,if we have high expectations,high pretensions, we are much more likely to hurt our self-esteem. For example,let's say my aspiration,my pretension, my expectation is to make 4 thousand dollars a month. Again this...I just throw in a numeric example here because it's easier to understand. Let's say my hope is to make 4 thousand dollars a month. That's my pretension. But in fact what I end up making is 2 thousand dollars a month. According to William James' formula,my self-esteem, and as we know self-esteem and happiness are very highly co-related and related. My self-esteem,my happiness level according to this formula is a half. On the other hand,let's say my pretensions, my expectation is to make 1.5 thousand dollars a month and in fact I make 1.5 thousand dollars a month. According to this formula,my self-esteem, my happiness level is 1. So here even though I'm making less, again I'm using a numeric example here, you can think about other examples. Even though I'm actually making less here, my self-esteem and my happiness are higher. So lower you expectations. Not so. What was found in the last 35 years of research is that this formula is actually wrong. That's not the case. Here is how it actually works. Let's say we have a graph. And this is time. And here is my self esteem levels and happiness levels. And let's at start off around my base level which is here. And then I had a mid-term in Positive Psych. And I don't do as well as I expected to. What happens to my self-esteem? What happens to my happiness? Of course it'll go down. It's natural we all want to succeed or most people want to succeed. So it goes down if it's below my expectations but very quickly as the research by Daniel Gilbert shows on effective forecasting... very quickly we go back up to our base level of happiness. And then a week later I have another mid-term in say,maths 55. And I ace it. I get much higher grade than I expected. And what happens to my self-esteem and happiness? It goes up. But then very quickly it goes back down again. And then let's say I'm 12 years old and I walk down the street and I meet Rena and I ask her out. And she says no. What happens to my to my self-esteem and happiness? It goes down. Slightly. And then very quickly it goes back up again. And then lucky me. I walk down the street. I think I see Rena but there is something different about her. And it turns out she has a twin sister. And I ask her out. And she says no. And what happens once again? Slightly down. But then I recover and go back up again. And you won't believe it. They are identical triplets. And I meet the 3rd sister and she says yes. She says I love you too. And what happens to my to my self-esteem and happiness? It goes up slightly right? Even taller than this. But then very quickly back down to base level and so on and so on. The vicissitudes of life... whether I get tenured or not tenured, whether I win the lottery or lose money. The ups and downs around a base level of well-being. Now there is good news here and there is bad news here. The good news is I can take more risks. It's not the end of world if she says no. It's not the end of the world if I fail here or if I don't get my dream job. It's okay. I'll recover. We all do. So that's the good news. The bad news is...so I'm stuck? So I was born with this base level according to my genes and I can't really improve? How do I raise this base level of happiness? And it's possible. And we'll talk about... the whole course is about raising the base level of happiness. But here is one finding from specifically the research on self-esteem. On one thing you can do right now when you get out of class to raise self-esteem and that is to cope as opposed to avoid. To cope meaning to put yourself on the line. To take risks not when you're in your panic zone but when you're in your stretch zone. To risk failure. To handle things,to deal things, to confront things that are important to you. To try out for that play. To speak out in session if you haven't. To go out to a place where you really want to go but never really try. To try. Because people who cope overtime have the same or sometimes more ups and downs. But their ups and downs look like this. Still ups and downs. Permission to be human. But the base level increases. Why does the base level increase? I'm gonna end here. Why does the base level increase when we cope rather than avoid? For 3 reason. First self perception theory. Daryl Bem... I think from either Dartmouth or Cornell... what Daryl Bem showed was that we derived conclusion about ourselves in the same way that we derived conclusion about others. So for example if I see a person going up to people and initiating a conversation or speaking up in session or trying out for a play and trying again and again. My conclusion about this person is this person is courageous. This person must have high self-esteem. And I may derive the conclusion about myself in exactly the same way. By seeing myself behaving a certain way, I reach a conclusion about my self-esteem or benevolence or generosity or whatever it is. Self perception theory. And if I cope,if I try things out then I see that this is a person with courage. This is a person who tries. And my conclusion about myself would be I must have high self-esteem. And my self-esteem as well as happiness level overtime will actually increase. Self perception theory. We derive conclusion about ourselves in the same way we derive conclusion about others. Meaning by looking at behavior. When we fail after coping we realize that the actual pain that comes with failure is far less than the pain we imagine and that we associate with failure. I just got over it. Okay,so I didn't do well in here or she said no. but I got over it. Whereas I imagine it in my mind I think it'll last forever. Just like those tenured or not tenured professors thought that their pay will last forever whereas it goes away. So when I realize the pain of actual failure is far less than the pain associated with failure, I become more confident. I can handle it. I'm actually much more resilient than I thought I was. And my self-esteem increases. My happiness as a result increases too. And finally there is more success because there is no other way to succeed. There is no other way in terms of learning how to walk. There is no other way in terms of succeeding in art or in science or in business or in politics. Learn to fail or fail to learn. I'll see you on Thursday. 



 Chapter 6: 逆境还是机遇？


OK,so,what we're gonna do today is finish up with the beliefs of self-fulfilling prophecy lecture and move on to the lecture on focus and how focus creates reality. Where did we end last time? We ended by talking about Rena and other things. We talked about the model,the Dan Gilbert model, the Philip Brickman model, where after a failure or a success there is a spike up, spike down,but then we recover. And we basically move along a base level of well being through out our lives,with the ups and downs,the vicissitudes. The question then became, or rather there was good news and bad news. The good news was,we don't really need to worry that much, we can take more risks,we can put ourselves on the line more. Failure usually,not all failures, but usually is just a temporary decline in our wellbeing level, self esteem level,and then every quickly we jump up again. So that's the good news. The bad news is: if we're just around the same base level, you know,why should we put any effort into our wellbeing? And the answer to that, and the whole course essentially is an answer to that. How can we raise that base level? One of the things is coping,putting ourselves on the line. And the reason why coping, why putting ourselves on the line yields positive results in terms of the base level of wellbeing going up, meaning still the ups and downs, but ups and downs looking this way as opposed to around a straight line or a parallel line is that when we cope,we see ourselves coping, we see ourselves trying and through self perception theory, we derive certain conclusions about ourselves: oh,I must be courageous; oh,I must be a person who has high self esteem; oh,I must be a person who has a strong desire to succeed and so on and so on. And then we derive conclusions about ourselves in the same way that we derive conclusions about other people. That is self-perception theory. The second reason is that once we started failing more often, we realized that actually it's not that bad, it's not what we make it out to be. The pain that in our minds we associate with failure is far greater that the actual pain of failure when that comes. Maybe not initially when it happens,but after a while; and then we recover again,and we see,oh,I can deal with it, I must be a person with resilience. And finally,there is more success as a result of coping. Learn to fail,or fail to learn, there is no other way to succeed. So what I want to move on to now and just finish up on is how do we become more of an optimistic. So we talked about the virtues,we talked about longevity, people who are optimistic actually live longer. We talked about higher levels of success, higher levels of happiness,more likely to overcome depression. People who are optimistic are eight times less likely to be depressed; they are much more likely to be happy. And again,optimism as an interpretation style, not as a Pollyannaish feel-good kind of approach. So how do we become more of an optimism? I want to talk about three techniques. First is to take action,to just do it, to put ourselves on the line. Second,I'm going to talk about the power of imagination, visualization,many of you are familiar with that, especially athletes as,as a technique. So we'll talk about that technique. And finally,cognitive therapy, which at least according to research,is the most successful, most effective therapeutic intervention out there today, so we'll talk about some of the basics and summarize those. So let me begin with action, this is based on research by Albert Bendura, you'll read about self-efficacy, his concept basically the idea of having strong believes and he just made it more academic, more scientific and researched for many years and we talked about many benefits of self efficacy. What Bendura is coming out against in much of his work is what has become known as the self esteem movement, or he's coming against what has become known as feel good movement. Alright,so tell a child how great they are, how wonderful they are. Standing in front of a mirror every morning and tell yourself: hi,gorgeous ten times,and then you will be more successful, your self esteem will be high and you'll be gorgeous. It doesn't work,believe me it doesn't work. I've tried everything. The thing though is that very often, it actually hurts in the long term,it actually hurts self esteem it actually hurts the motivation of students who are constantly told you are wonderful, you are terrific no matter what. And we'll talk about how we can be more discerning with praise, how we can praise in the right way when we talked about the work of Carol Dweck on mindsets in a few weeks. In the meantime,what Bendura showed, what Carol Dweck showed, what many others showed was that it's not enough, very often,its even detrimental to just give the,you know, positive,positive talk,the positive affirmation. Whether it comes from the outside or from the inside, maybe part of the equation,certainly can't be all. What Bendura is saying,that rather than talk,we need action. We need to put hard work into whatever it is, we want to be more confident about,and we need to cope. We need to put ourselves on the line. Very simple! Why? Because hard work and coping inevitably leads to success, more success at least than we had before, when we didn't act and we didn't cope. So even if it's a little bit,in and of itself contributes, that success contributes to our self-efficacy, to our self confidence. And then,that self confidence in turns, in turn motivates us to work harder. We started to believe ourselves more. Now,this is a very simple model,I mean,anyone you know, the five year old could draw that model. However think about the implications for our lives, think about the implications for education, do we just tell students constantly you're terrific, you're wonderful,you're great,or do we like Marva Collins, make them actually work hard so that they succeed more, so that they see themselves going back to self conception theory, see themselves working hard, see themselves putting themselves on the line, coping and failing,and getting up again. It works also in a similar way to our physical immune system. You know when we get sick,when we get ill, our body sense anti-bodies and we actually become immune to whatever it is that we had. So our body become immunize through failure. Same on the psychological level,failure is underrated. You know one of the things that I wish for you, and I mean it genuinely. One of the things that I wish for you is that you fail more. I'm not saying it ingest,I really do. And,coupled with that,I hope that when you fail, you will also learn to interpret it in a different way than most of us usually interpret failure. 'Cause there is no other way to succeed, there is no other way for growth, it's an elusion that a life looks like this, we will talk about it much more when we talk about perfectionism. A healthy life,a real life, and a happy life ultimately looks like this, a spiral with ups and downs,not as a straight line. When we see ourselves cope,when we see ourselves work hard, we derive conclusions about ourselves, our self confidence goes up,our motivation goes up, our belief goes up and so on and so on in an upward spiral of growth. Soren Kierkegaard: "To dare is to lose one's footing momentarily. Not to dare is to lose oneself." To lose one's footing temporarily is the failure that comes inevitably when we cope,when we try, when we have high expectations. Not to dare is to lose oneself, that is when we don't cope,when we avoid. Because this model also works the other way around. When we constantly avoid challenges, when we constantly shone difficult experiences, when we don't give ourselves the permission to fail, a downward spiral is created,in terms of our self esteem, in terms of our success,in terms of our well being. Second technique: imagining success. Now there's one thing I want to share with you, I'm a little bit nervous about sharing it but I'll do it anyway,you know,since we've opened up, especially last time was a real milestone in our relationship. I'm gonna to tell you something but please don't tell anyone, you know,especially don't tell any of my clients or potential clients in the future. I get really nervous before lectures. I get very nervous,in fact for me, whenever I stand in front of a large audience, there're butterflies in my stomach. And it's very difficult for me when I talk about large audience its anything above five. So,this is a real challenge, it's a real challenge when I talk to clients. And this is been a challenge since the dash I decided that I want to be a teacher and I decided that I want to be a teacher when I heard Marva Collins, and I said: this is my calling. And here is what happened then. I said,how can I be a successful teacher and effective teacher if I get so nervous when I stand in front of an audience? And remember the three components of success, the secret of success? It was optimism,believe in oneself; it was passion,loving what you do; and it was hard work. So I had two of the three components. I worked extremely hard,in fact my motto has become, one that I got from Professor Richard Hackman, as my thesis advisor as an undergrad here. And,what he said,he's a phenomenal teacher, and what he said when he goes into a classroom is the following: prepare,prepare,prepare,and then be spontaneous. So I followed his advise,now I read over my notes, I have all the notes written down and then I can let go. So I prepare a lot,I have the hard work,not a problem. I have the passion,I love learning, it's the most important thing,professionally in my life. But I lacked the third thing,I lacked optimism, and I lacked confidence. And then I asked myself: how can I raise the third components because it is important component of wellbeing, remember the research on athletes? 56% of the variance is accounted of success, is accounted for by the sense of optimism or belief in yourself. Remember the John Carter study? Twenty years along when you look at Harvard Business School graduates, one of the two components that differentiated the most successful from the rest, one of them was belief in themselves,confidence. It's an important component of success and I lacked it. So what did I do? I went back and thought about what happened when I played squash, what my coaches used to teach me,and that was visualization. And I started reading up and when I looking at literature and there's a lot of research on it, it actually started off centuries ago in religious practices, was brought to athletics through east European athletes who would imagine themselves,say, running around the track and then standing on the podium, receiving the gold medal. And more and more psychologists started to implement it. Sales people use it very effectively, seeing themselves actually striking the deal, going through with it,doing it and succeeding. And that made it much more likely to come true. The question is why? What's the mechanism behind visualization? Why is it so important? Why is it so good? Why is it so effective? Why it being used so widely and successfully? And the answer goes back to the structure of our brains. This is research done by the head of psychology department, Professor Steven Kosslyn. What he shows was that when we see something, so let's say I'm looking at my hand right now. There are certain neurons in my brain that are firing, that actually take on the shape of this hand. My visual cortex,the back. Now, if I close my eyes and imagine that I'm looking at this hand, even if it's not here,if I imagine that I look at this hand, the exact same neurons are firing. In other words, my brain does not know the difference between the real thing and the imaginary thing. Which explains why dreams can be so vivid, n the middle of the night,pitch dark, and you are dreaming about mid of the day, walking around the yard. Our imagination, least for the brain is no different than the real thing. Now,when I imagine success,what happens in a sense is that I'm creating a simulator for my mind. And I'm in a sense fooling my mind into thinking that this is the real thing. My mind doesn't know the difference between the two. Subconscious mind doesn't know the difference between the real thing and the imaginary thing. Now if I imagine success over and over again in my mind, remember what the mind does not like is inconsistency. In other words, if I create success in my imagination and I persist with it, not just visualize it once or twice,but over and over again, the mind doesn't like inconsistencies. And therefore,it will bring up the external reality to match this internal schema. Why? Because the mind doesn't know the difference in the real thing and imaginary thing. Just like Thomas, just like Roger Bannister run the four minutes a mile and after that,after that what happened was that everyone had a different schema: Oh,four minutes a mile is possible and 37 runners run it, over 300 runners run it the following year. Because they had a difference schema: we can do exactly the same thing through the simulator. Cause the mind doesn't know the difference in the real thing and the imaginary thing. Doesn't work all the time, doesn't work a hundred percent of the time, but it works a great deal. What I do every time when I give a lecture is visualize. I imagine myself stand in front of the audience, calm,excited,passionate. And then when I go into the real thing, now I don't know if it is the real thing or I'm imaging, but I assume it's the real thing. When I go into the real thing,I do feel that. I still get nervous,I still get anxious, but it's a healthy,excitement. Raising my levels of beliefs,levels of confidence by practicing, just like a flight... a pilot,you would hope... would practice in a simulator before they take you on across the Atlantic. The mind as a simulator,this is why it works. The key here,this is a mistake that many people make, whether it's athletics or whether it's in the, a lot of the self-help books that talked about visualizations. The key is to focused not just on the destination, Shelley Taylor,UCLA, did this research where she divided students in two random groups One student imaging themselves getting an A on the exam and imagine it over and over again. The second group,imaging themselves getting an A but also saw themselves work and persist in the library, prepare for it,and then,get to that final A. The second group that imaging both the journey and the destination was much more successful, much better result in the exam. So visualize the journey as well as the destination, this is your response paper for this week, to visualize both your destination of getting there, your journey of getting there,as well as the destination itself. Arguably,the most,or certainly one of the most influential speeches of all time was Martin Luther King's I have a dream. I've read this speech more than dozens of times. Why? Because beyond its beauty,its rhythm and its importance, it also captures what is means, what it means to create an image of success. 'Cause this is what he did for this country and defined generations to come. So first of all,I want to read some excerpts from it. It is about visualizating a better future, and he says it explicitly,doesn't hide it. He says: "I have a dream,I say to you today my friends, so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the America dream." This is all about imagination, but through the imagination he created a better reality. Look at how he talks about the process; he doesn't talk just about the outcome: we want equality at the end. He talks about how we will get to this outcome. So let me read you a couple of excerpts: "This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism." How beautiful! I mean,what he's saying here is, let's not just sit here and wait and imagine that things will happen, let's do something,let's also have a process. And he says explicitly: "In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must not be guilty of wrongful deeds." So here he's talking about advice,of suggestions,advice, what we should and shouldn't do along the way. "We must forever conduct our struggle on the high play of dignityand discipline. We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence." He's describing a process. "Again and again,we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force." Another thing that we need to do when we imagine success is to make is as real as possible by involving as many senses as we can. Why? Because the more senses we can imagine, the more our mind is fooled to believe that it is the real thing. Once again,Martin Luther King does this beautifully. Let me read you a few excerpts: "We will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream." I mean,you can feel the water,you can feel that stream, you can see it,you can visualize it. "Or,let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred." He's employing test,bitterness,equaling with hatred. People connect to it,making it real,concrete. "One day right there in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers." I mean,you can see that circle of the kids holding hand, again making it real,you can visualize it,you see it. By the way,these are the characteristics of all great speeches. They are not abstract, look at the great communicator Ronald Reagan. Look at Kennedy. They gave amazing speeches because they created a picture, they involve the senses,they created a picture of success. "I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, weltering with the heat of oppression will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice." You can actually feel the heat, you can actually feel the sweat that he's describing. This is what makes good,successful images. This is what makes great speeches. And finally,it's about evoking emotions. You don't want just make it cognitive exercise, you wanna really be excited about what you are doing, or else it will fall flat. Nothing,no change will happen. Again,the connection between the words emotion and motion: without emotion,there is no motion. If you want to move yourself or others, you need to evoke emotions. Let's look at,just a minute,of that historical speech. "From every mountain side,let freedom ring! And if America is to be a great nation,this must become true. And so let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire. Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York. Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania Let freedom ring from the snow-capped Rockies of Colorado. Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slopes of California. But not only that: Let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia. Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee. Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi. From every mountainside,let freedom ring. And when this happens,when we allow freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city,we will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children,black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles,Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, "Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty,we are free at last!" I've seen this as I said dozens of times,every time excitement. Imagine if you said at the end: Free at last! Free at last! God Almighty,free at last! Would that have the same effect? Boring,dry,you have to evoke emotions to create motion, whether is in our imagination or in a speech to the nation Another technique...Another technique that I'd like to talk about, the third technique. So the first one was: work, put yourself on the line,cope,invest. The second: use your imagination, use the simulator that you have right here, one of the most if not the most powerful simulator we know of. The third is cognitive therapy. Cognitive therapy has been used very successfully over the last, over forty years,Martin Seligman was one of the founders of the cognitive therapy approach. He studied with,with Beck, who was the official founder of this technique in this approach. And what cognitive therapy is about is the following. Its basic premise is that thoughts drive emotion. So for example: there is an external event. I perceive that event, and what I do then after I perceive that event, there is evaluation of that event, in other words,a thought about that event. And then,as a result of that thought,that evokes an emotion. So for example,an event,a lion is running toward me, my evaluation: oh my god,he's gonna eat me. The emotion: fear,and that of course leads to motion, run away or stand up bravely and fight the lion. Or,another one: I see an event, a gorgeous woman walking down the street,my evaluation: oh,it's my gorgeous wife,and the emotion:love. Event,evaluation,thought,emotion, and then that leads to action. What cognitive therapy says is that if we want to change emotions whether it's of depression,whether it's of anxiety, where we need to intervene is here, is that the level of evaluation and the level of thought. And if we can change that,we also change our emotion. Specifically,what cognitive therapy saying is that we need to restore sense of rationality, we need to restore the real,it's certainly not saying, let's say I have a,you know, a very important try out coming up and I get nervous. Cognitive therapy is not saying stop feeling nervous, let's change your evaluation or your thoughts, because that's natural or I stand in front of a lion. It's natural,it's important,it's healthy to experience fear. But what it is saying is that sometimes our thoughts are irrational, and we'll mention that last time,for example, I don't do well on one test and immediately I classified myself as stupid or the fact that I will never succeed in tests again. Or,you know,I asked someone out and he says no, and suddenly nobody wants me. That event led to an irrational thought, irrational evaluation of the situation. It was just once,it was temporary, and that led to difficult emotions such as resignation: nobody will ever want me again. And what cognitive therapy does is just restore that rationality by saying: yeah,it hurts,it's tough, but,you know they are,what? 3200 other men at Harvard. Cognitive therapy has been shown to be extremely effective, more effective than any of the other intervention, the jury still out when it comes to extreme cases of psychopathology, but in terms of most psychopathologies,most anxiety, most depression,it has been shown to be the most successful, and it works the fastest. Not the only thing that works, but it works the best and much more promptly than the other interventions. On the whole,not right for everyone,but for most people. And finally,and this is the important thing we can learn it. So we talk about right? The five-year Cambridge Somerville study that failed. Well,Karen Reivich teaches these cognitive skills in a two week program. And that two week program helps kids in inner cities, at risk population, reduce the likelihood of falling into the trap of depression, of drug abuse,increases the likelihood of wellbeing and success in the long term just as a result of two weeks teaching them cognitive therapy or these techniques, so it's an accquired skill and this is the important thing about it. That doesn't mean its easy, doesn't mean you're just gonna hear a lecture now for the, the next ten minutes I'm gonna describe some of the ideas and that's gonna change your life. You need to apply it, and you are going to apply it in the next two, next two classes,but you need to do more than that. So let me share with you a summary of cognitive therapy and this...the 3Ms is my acronym. And what I did there was to put together essentially the work of Karen Reivich whom I just mentioned, the work of Martin Seligman, the work of Aaron Beck Seligman's teacher and the work of David Burns. Some of you may heard of him, The Feeling Good Handbook,who is also a student of Aaron Beck. So this is putting together their work into 3Ms subdivided each into 2 suggestions. They're inter connected as you'll see. It's not a very clear distinction. However what you'll notice is you could usually relate to one or two of the 3Ms. Things that you do yourself. So beyond the lookout ask yourself: "Where do I distort the reality? Where do I have distortion in terms of evaluation? In terms of my thought?" That lead to certain negative emotions that are unnecessary, because if I restore rationality I will not feel the same emotion to the same degree. So ask yourself when you look through the 3Ms. The 3Ms...essentially the 3 traps of irrational thoughts. The first one is magnifying. It's exaggerating something that happens. For example, you know induction is something very natural. A kid sees this and will call it a stool and then they see another stool in the bar when they go out at the age of one and then they see another stool. After they see 20 stools they begin to form a concept they induce that this is a stool. And now they see one even one that they have never seen before they know what it is. Just like I see a person in the street whom I never encounter before I know this is a person, because I induce from all the other events that happened before that this is also a person. So that's induction. That's healthy. That's important. That's how we develop concepts and language. But sometimes we take this too far and we over generalize. Once again,I did poorly on the midterm...conclusion, generalization: I'm just not smart. I just can't succeed. Here is a student. Over generalization,the evaluation, the thought,irrational. Or he just said no to me. Everyone is gonna say no. instead of being realistic and saying,"wow,just look around. There are so many wonderful and sensitive and caring men in 1504" So,another thing this is something we'll talk about a lot... the All or Nothing approach. The All or Nothing... we'll talk about it when we talk about perfectionism. It's catastrophizing failure, not seeing failure as an opportunity, as a stepping stone but seeing it as the end of the world. I got a B as a freshman. Now I'm going to be homeless. Not finding a job ever. All or Nothing. Either straight As or complete failure. We'll talk about that a lot. Because it's one of the key elements that prevents us from coping from putting ourselves on the line. The other side of it, which is actually other side of the same coin is minimizing. This is something I do very often. This is my trap that I still have to be aware of, I still think about today, even though I became aware of it years ago. Only now I catch myself doing it much promptly. So the first idea of minimizing is what Karen Reivich calls tunnel vision. For example,let's say I have 620 students in my class. And out of these 620 students 618 are engaged in the material. One is looking at the ceiling,at the lights. And another one,out of the 620 students,is asleep. Tunnel Vision is when I focus on that one person who is asleep. And I say to myself, " Wow,I'm giving boring,sleep inducing lectures." Or the other way around: I have 620 students,618 are asleep. One is looking around. And one is going "wow!" and I only focus on that person and I say I'm a great lecturer. I'm so inspiring. Again,it's unrealistic. One way or the other. And what cognitive therapy does is bring realism into the equation. Again this is something I often fall into. And just recently I fell into this. And it happened... I know many of you saw the Jon Stewart show. So what happened in the Jon Stewart show...he was so fast, way too fast for me...I felt like I was 2 questions behind still contemplating and thinking and saying "well,this could be interesting research." And Jon was...he was already 10 steps ahead. So I fell behind and I felt slow. And I also said something that I later regretted. It was just one sentence. No big deal. But that is what I focus on. You know I flew home after. I went back to Israel. The whole flight that what I was thinking of. Ignoring the other things. You know the fact that 2 hours after the Jon Stewart show, the book became a best seller. Completely ignore that. Didn't exist as far as I was concerned. It was just that one sentence. How could I say it? Why didn't I prepare for it better? And so on. And then I suddenly said," Hey,wait a minute!" Tunnel Vision. And I zoomed out. I looked at the bigger picture. Then I said,"okay,so I said something that I regret. Big deal." You know. It's comedy. It's fun. So many people, so many of your friends have watched and enjoyed it. It was a great opportunity. I looked at the bigger picture. Gave myself the permission to be human. To regret it.But then overall, I could see it in a much more rational light than before. Big dealSo again,as I said,I still apply...I still use these ideas. In the past, it would take me months to get over this one sentence. Whereas now,zoom out. Evaluation thought,irrational. And recover much more promptly. Dismissal of positives or negatives. So the person who has tunnel vision doesn't see the other 618 people who are engaged or asleep. The person who dismiss the positives see those but says they're unimportant; they are trivial in comparison to how I just failed or what I just did wrong. So for example, and this again,something that I...a trap that I often fall into. When I was a senior,I applied for fellowships and I got a fellowship to go to Cambridge. And I got the John Elliot Fellowship. And there are 4 fellowships that go to Cambridge: the John Elliot,the Fiske,um...one other...Pembroke; then there is the John Harvard fellowship. So I got the John Elliot,one of the 4. Immediately when I got it,I know that I got it obviously. It wasn't that I was ignoring it. But then I said why didn't I get the John Harvard fellowship. Now there is no difference between them except for the names. But that's immediately what my mind went to. And that, that was very important experience for me because I said "wow,look at you. "and that's when I started to recognize the importance and the power of our evaluation. And how that can determine or even ruin what should have been a celebration. But once we recognize it,once we understand it, we can dispute it. We can challenge it. We can reframe it and see the positive as well. Again,all it's saying in cognitive therapy is let's be real. Making up or fabricating the 3rd M. This is when we create something ex nihilo,from nothing. So for example,we personalize it or we blame. We see this very often with people who are abused. So an abused wife will very often say "It's my doing. It's my fault. I'm not behaving appropriately." Instead of rationally saying "This guy is abusive. I'm out of here." That's irrational personalization. It can also be the other way around. You know,I just did poorly on an exam and I blame my boyfriend or girlfriend for it. That's also unrealistic. I need to take responsibility. You got to remember Nathaniel Branden. No one is coming. Take responsibility rather than blame. One of the key ideas (that) Marva Collins communicates to her students. So again,it's not going to the personalizing...over-personalizing or over-blaming,it's being real. And finally,emotional reasoning. I am envious; therefore I must be a bad person. Or I'm experiencing danger before a tryout therefore it must be dangerous. Taking an emotion and making it into reality whereas instead of understanding an emotion is an emotion, it doesn't necessary capture reality, it is my evaluation of reality. Or,I'm extremely scared of failing...and therefore... it means that failing it's really dangerous, while in fact it's not. I'll get back up again very quickly, so it's having the correct evaluation, correcting for the track,correcting for these errors. Or feeling that, I'm second-rate and I'm no good in psychology or maths, and because I feel that,my evaluation of it is,well, I must really be second-rate and no good, instead having the rational belief of,well,let me try out, let me see how things go,correcting the distortions. The key,once again,is to get real. How do we get real through the questions that we ask? I am going to give you just a few examples here; you are going to practice with those on your own. But here are just some of them. First of all,is my conclusion tied to reality? Second,is it rational? They are interconnected. Am I ignoring something important? Like the fact that---you know the book did well afterwards--- like the fact that there are other cool guys in 1504,and so on. What important evidence do I still need to take into consideration? This is about disputing,it's evidence,it's get real. Look out,don't just zoom in on the geometric shapes, there are also children on the bus. And this is what questions do. They open us up, they open our vision and they create in your reality. What am I magnifying? What am I minimizing? Am I falling into the traps? Am I ignoring anything that is going well? Am I ignoring anything that is not going well? It's not about Pollyanna feel good at all costs, it's about being tied to reality. And finally,let me zoom out. What is the big picture. To conclude,Ed Diener and Martin Seligman did very important research on extremely happy people. This is tip of the stamp research. Looking at the 10 per cent of the happiest people out there, people that we can learn from. And what they found was very interesting. First of all,these people did not experience painful emotions any less times than the rest of the people, say the bottom 10 per cent or the mid 10 per cent. They experience painful emotions, the difference between them and the rest was that they recovered more promptly as a result of different interpretations. So when they felt down,they were optimistic instead of saying "ok,so I'm going to feel down for the rest of the month", they said "ok,so I'm feeling down,big deal. What can I learn from it? What happen? How can I make myself feel better?" And then they recovered more promptly than the pessimists, the people who remained depressed for a much longer time. You see,events happen,things happen in the world, very often out of our control. We don't create everything that we encounter. And some of the events are bad,some are negative. What matters more is what we do with them after, how we evaluate them. And what happens is that our evaluation becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, because a pessimist will say "I'm in a bad mood now, it's going to last for a very long time, it's not going to go away",whereas an optimist says "it's temporary,it's going to go away" and believes our self-fulfilling prophecies. If I believe that it will last for six months, it's much more likely,not necessarily, but it's much more likely to last for six months than if I say "that too shall pass". And what we do with our beliefs is we create a downward spiral of depression,unhappiness, sadness or an upward spiral,capitalizing positive emotions and having more and more of them, what Barbara Fredrickson talks about the "broaden and build" phenomenon. A lot of it is up to us. There are no short cuts. There are no easy steps to wellbeing, to success,to high level of beliefs in ourselves. It takes work,it takes effort,whether it's work visualizing, whether it's hard work and coping, or whether it's work learning to dispute irrational thoughts. And it's not enough to just understand it once and then we are all set, we are all inoculated for the rest of our lives. If you want to continue working, we have to continue working at it. Let me move on...And talk about the question of "focus". Because just like if we focus on specific element of an event or not makes a difference, it applies on the macro level to our entire life. What I am going to do now is elaborate, go up higher level of the spiral of understanding and learning, of something that we have talked about time and again. Ed Diener,who is also,I just mentioned his research, he is also the president,first president of the International Positive Psychology Association, he's from Illinois. After years of research,concludes, it appears that the way people perceive the world is much more important to happiness than objective circumstances. Now if you think about it,that makes a lot of sense. We know a lot of people who seemingly have everything, whether it's wealth,whether it's wonderful friends and family, all their dreams have come true,and they are still miserable. While there are people who have very little, who have experienced hardship after hardship and who never cease to celebrate life. Then there are people who have everything going for them and really appreciate it, don't take it for granted and are happy. And there are people who don't have much and never cease to complain. In other words,it's not just the internal or...sorry, it's not just the external that matters, what matters more is the internal. Happiness is not contingent on our status, or the state of our bank account, it's much more dependent on our state of mind, on what we choose to focus on. Because our emotions are determined by external circumstances as well as internal, interpretation matters. For example, look at what Edison did,5,000 failures to the external observer, for him the evaluation was very different. The internal evaluation,the subjective evaluation, it was 5,000 times where I showed what doesn't work. And it's up to us to decide where we focus. Do we celebrate successes or take it for granted? Do we perceive failures and hardships as a disaster or as an opportunity for growth? Emerson: "to different minds the same world is a hell and a heaven." And Shakespeare: "Nothing is good or bad,but thinking makes it so." Now,I don't 100 per cent agree with Shakespeare, but he is to a great extent right. A person in ??? is living in hell,and it's very difficult to reframe, and to derive,and to look at the positive in that situation. Same for a person living in a concentration camp. So there are external circumstances that matter. A person,a homeless person,you know, if you give them enough money for a home,for food, for basic education,of course they will become happier because of the change of external circumstances. However,beyond the basic needs,beyond the basic freedoms, it is mostly about how we perceive reality, and we are able to make it into a heaven or a hell. Let's do an exercise that will capture this idea of "focus creating reality". So I have a question for you: how many geometric shapes? Unfortunate,it's a great exercise but it only works once. Remember this,how you created your reality just based on the question that you asked. We think when we look at the picture, you know not everyone of course is looking on the children on the bus on the clock,right? But before it was right in front of you and you didn't, most of you,did not see it,because it is a question of focus. Very often we complain about life and we think, you know,things are terrible and awful not realizing that we're the cause of it,either by imaging it and then beliefs become self-fulfilling prophesies, or,because we just focus on what is not working. And one thing and this does not mean that there are no objective terrible circumstances out there. But to a great extent,a great extent,we co-create our reality. You know one of the students who was in 1504 two years ago recommended this book to me--- Way of the Peaceful Warrior. And it's a wonderful book, I just started reading it...and there is a movie on it,right... I just started reading it yesterday,and I came across this... you know coincidentally this parable,so I want to read it to you The story that Dan Millman,the author,tells: I met him on a construction site in the Middle West. When the lunch whistle blew, all the workers would sit down together to eat. And everyday Sam would open his lunch pail and start to complain. "Son of the gun,"he would cry, "not peanut butter and jelly sandwich again! I hate peanut butter and jelly!" He whined about his peanut butter and jelly sandwiches day after day after day, until one of the guys in the work crew finally said: "Sam,if you hate peanut butter and jelly so much, why don't you just tell your old lady to make you something different?" "What do you mean my old lady?" Sam replied, "I'm not married,I make my own sandwiches." You know,very often we make our own sandwiches and we don't even notice it. Because the questions that we ask, the questions that we ask determine our reality: a peanut sandwich,or geometric shapes,or children on the bus, or salami,whatever it is. We very often create our own reality. And if we understand this,we can transform, change the way that we perceive,change our focus, change our questions, whether it's questions disputing irrational evaluations, whether it's questions focusing on the positive, and questions create a new reality. There are essentially two archetypes that I would like to discuss here, two archetypes that capture in many ways how we can cognitively reconstruct,enhance,create our reality. The two archetypes are the benefit-finder and the fault-finder. First of all,the fault-finder,the fault-finder is a person who always focuses on things that don't work, on the peanut butter and jelly,on things that are not going well on problems in the relationship,on problem in him or herself, problems with the job---the consummate complainer. Now,we all exist on the continuum of between extreme fault-finding and extreme benefit-finding. You know there is no one who is all the way on the extreme this way or that way, everyone is on somewhere on the continuum. What I'm going to argue for is to move a little bit more from the fault-finding toward the benefit-finding, because there are many benefits to it that I'll discuss later. The fault-finder, I got the name from the work of Henry David Thoreau, the fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. The extreme fault-finder experiences resignation, learned helplessness. Why? Because he or she begins to really believe that the terrible reality is very much out there independent of what he or she thinks, not recognizing that they create that reality, they begin to believe that no matter what they do, no matter what job they find they have a terrible boss, no matter what partners they have they are always awful and inconsiderate, no matter what restaurant they go to the service is always awful, and they always keep on getting the same peanut butter and jelly sandwich that they made for themselves. And they resigned to the reality and that becomes a self-fulfilling prophesy of course, their existence. A fault-finder makes lemonade out of lemons, sorry,makes lemon out of lemonade. The benefit-finder,research Julian Bauer,now at UCLA, the benefit-finder is the opposite,focuses on what works. The benefit-finder looks on the bright side of life, finds the silver lining in the dark cloud, makes lemonade out of lemons, The benefit-finder finds the miracle in the common, Ralph Waldo Emerson,the consummate benefit-finder, focusing on the positive and what works. Now the problem here may be that the benefit-finder may be detached, this is one of the criticisms of people who always see, you know,the bright side of life, and that is the problem if that is the case. Again, this class is not advocating focusing only on the positive; its focus is advocating reality. And reality comprises both good and bad, reality comprises both geometric shapes and children on the bus,and the key is to focus on both. So the detachment, the detached benefit-finder is certainly not an archetype that I would advocate nor would it lead to mental health in the long run. "There is a need in the world" ---of Nathaniel Branden--- "to respect reality." We don't create reality simply by the focus, however,we are co-creator. Let me read you extensively from William James, "Now however fixed these elements of reality may be, we still have a certain freedom in our dealings with them. Take our sensations, THAT they are is undoubtedly beyond our control; but WHICH we attend to,note,and make emphatic in our conclusions depends on our own interests; and,according as we lay the emphasis here or there, quite different formulations of truth result. We read the same facts differently. 'Waterloo',with the same fixed details, spells a 'victory' for an Englishman; for a Frenchman it spells 'defeat'. So,for an optimist philosopher the universe spells victory, for a pessimist,defeat. What we say about reality thus depends on the perspective into which we throw it. " William James said these back in 1890, understanding how we co-create our reality. Here is one of my...one of my favorite poems by R.L. Sharpe: Isn't it strange,how princes and kings, and clowns that caper in sawdust rings, and common-people like you and me, are builders for eternity? each is given a list of rules, a shapeless mass and a bag of tools; and each must fashion your life is flown, a stumbling block or a stepping stone. Very often what we get in the beginning is a large piece of stone. What do we do with it? Do we create it into a beautiful "David"? Chipping away the excess stone? Or,is it a barrier to our success? And very often it is up to us,as we co-create our reality. The stone is there,we are not responsible for it; but what we do with it,we are responsible for. Cognitive reconstruction is about learning to interpret things optimistically, another words,in the positive light. Ann Harbison,colleague of mine, used to teach also with Philip Stone, said that "never let a good crisis go to waste". Crises have the potential through growth. One of the books that we will talk about when we talk about relationships is Passionate Marriage by David Schnarch,who talks about crucibles in marriage. And what he says is that ...the thriving relationships, a relationships,not that have been,you know, all fine and dandy for years. These usually fail after a while. But the relationships that go through crucibles, that have crises,disagreements and then,you know, Thesis and Antithesis and then there is a Synthesis, and there is a growth as a result of these hardships. And he says that there is no other way, again learn to fail or fail to learn, there is no other way for a long-term success of a relationship. Relationship does not,cannot look like this. It has to have these ups and downs. Never let a good crisis in a relationship go to waste. That doesn't mean that every crisis needs to be resolved and there are some that could end,and should end a relationship. But most crises can be solved and need to be dealt with. Same on individual level,work by Warren Bennis, he is from USC, taught for a few years here at the Business School, has identified the leading leaders, whether it's younger ones what he called, whom he called "the geeks",the thirty-year-olds,or elder ones, "the geezers" he called them. He has a book called Geeks & Geezers, where he talks about the differences between the two leadership styles,approaches,passions, interests and there are numerous differences. For example,you know, the geeks---the younger one talk about work-life balance, the geezers don't know what he means by that. You know it was usually,he,a man, worked while the woman took care of the family and the man. So that was for the geezers,for the older generation. The younger generation,they talk about work-life balance and how they can incorporate all the elements of their lives. There are of course many more women in the geeks than the geezers Numerous differences among the generation,one similarity. All the great leaders, whether they were thirty-year-old or eighty-five years old, all of them had been through very rough crucibles and leave to tell the tale. Our most people go through crucibles, but there are certain people who are able to find benefit in these crucibles and grow as a results. Never let a good crisis go to waste, whether it's professionally,whether it's interpersonally, whether it's intra-personally in terms of what you are experiencing. But four years ago or five years ago, when I was still a resident tutor in Leverett house, and we had one of these pre-business events where we talked about the upcoming year and the recruiting and so on. That particular year was a terrible year, Goldman Sachs was laying off,wasn't recruiting on campus, Credit Suisse,First Boston they were laying off as well, Deutsche Bank,first time in his history was laying off employees really bad market. And we talked about this,each of us gave it, what should be about the market and what they can do, very sober presentation. And then one of the students, you know my students Sean Fieldscoy,was a senior then, was sitting there,Had studied positive psychology there. He put up his hand and said: "Tal,you know,as...you know you portrait a very pessimistic and negative picture, but as a teacher of Positive Psychology can you maybe shed some optimism here?" And you know, few chuckles in the audience and then silence. And everyone is looking at me, I don't know what to say and my immediate reaction was to say "Well Sean things happen for the best." Exactly. (laughs) And then, just before it came out of my mouth I said...I thought to myself, "Actually I don't believe that." I don't believe that things happen for the best. But while I don't believe that things happen for the best, I do believe that some people are able to make the best of things that happen,and there is a very big difference here. Because when I say "I'm not happy about what just happen here, I don't like it,I much rather have the market be a good market, where people are hiring, where they all come to me on a silver platter and offer me a job. Of course,I would much rather have that. So things don't happen for the best necessarily, but there are some people who accept the situation and then are able to make the best of it. The same with any crisis. Do you think the leaders, whether they are the eighty- or ninety-year-olds, invited those crucibles into their lives want these crucibles to happen? Do you think partners go into a relationship and say "let's look for that crucible, let's really fight so that we can have a healthy relationship"? Of course not! But when it happens, that's when they make the best of it. You know,stuff happens, and we can either let it pollute or make fertilizer out of it. I want to show you an example once again of a leader, who is a consummate benefit-finder. [MUSIC] Wow. We are honored to be talking with Neilson Mandela, the former president of South Africa,whose unshakable courage, his faith and integrity have inspired millions to see what is possible in their own lives. I've had the pleasure,the honor of meeting Mr. Mandela on a couple of occasions before and I will tell you, to be in his presence is really,to be in your presence is like being a presence of royalty and grace at the same time. I would think,I wonder how does a man spend 27 years in prison, put there by an oppressor, and come out of that experience with not a heart of stone, not a cold heart but a heart that is willing to forgive and embrace. I remember talking to you one night of our dinner, and you had said to me that our hatred for the oppressor was so intense we did not see the value of talking to him. So at what point did you see the value of letting go of that hatred and begin the process of talking? Well,let me say first,that is a great tragedy to spend the best of your lives in prison. But although it looks ironical,there are advantages in that. If I had not been at the prison,I have not... I would not be able to achieve the most difficult, a task in life,and that is changing yourself. I would not have an opportunity. I had that opportunity because in prison you have what we don't have in our work outside prison, the opportunity to sit down and think,which is an important part Did you need 27 years of it though? You could have taken a few days,a week,a vacation. Did you need 27 years? Now, did it happen for the best that he spent 27 years of his life? Certainly when he experienced it,it was painful,it was awful, but he was able to transform this. And to,even in that situation,to see the positive. And when we transform that, those who know the history of what happen to him, when he started to look at the positive, even there are the opportunities in prison when he changes his mind set. In other words, not the external circumstances, the external circumstances actually begin to change. Another benefit-finder, "a pessimist sees difficulty in every opportunity, an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty." And you don't want to argue with him. I want to end by telling you a story, a personal story about my experiences throughout the years. Some biographical detail, something that most of you did not know. And I am going to tell it to you first from the perspective of the fault-finder. I have a mild case of ADD, it makes things very difficult for me, it's difficult for me to focus,my mind wanders often, and I really struggle with it constantly. When I was in high school, I really wanted to get into a lucrative program in mathematics, did not pass the entry exam,I was very disappointed, I did not make it. Becoming a professional squash player was a dream for me since the age of 11. That is the thing that I thought about constantly, that was the most important thing for me at the time. I wanna to be a professional player. At the age of twenty, I was about to complete my military service in Israel and I got injured on the squash court and pulled the muscle in my back. The doctor gave me an option of being operated on, which was a big risk,or giving up my professional career. I chose to give up my professional career, a dream that I had from a very young age. It was a real blow. I went to Cambridge, after graduating from Harvard and I enrolled in a PhD program. I was the only student in my PhD program to fail, I was thrown out of the program. It was humiliating; it seemed like a waste of a year because I did not even get a master's degree. It was a real tough experience. At Harvard,as a graduate student,I took, with all the other students,my qualifying general exams. Out of all the graduate students who took that exam, I was the only one who failed it. Once again,a really humiliating experience, walking around William James and everyone knows their results, it was tough. Not only that,I was given provisional, the provisional option of staying in the program. They said to me,not only do you need to pass next year's exam when you take it with the next class, you have to pass it with flying colors or you are out. So,while the rest of the semester, while working on the dissertations,writing, almost graduating I had to go back to the basics and go over the whole material again. God,I am so unlucky. I want to share with you some biographical facts about my life, you know,I have a mild case of ADD, which is great,you know why? Because,it actually forces me to only study things that I love,things that I care about, because anything else,my concentration just goes away. So it's like,I have an internal mechanism that forces me to focus on the ultimate currency, on things that make me happy. And I only study things that I'm passionate about,it is wonderful. You know,when I was in high school, I really wanted to get into a certain program, in a very lucrative program,and I didn't get in, I failed the entrance exam, which turned out to be a blessing in disguise, because it gave me so much more time to practice and play squash, and I ended up winning international championships in the following year, which I wouldn't have done had I been in that program. When I was in the University of Cambridge, I was in a PhD program,and I was the only one in my class, and as far as I know, the only one in years to be thrown out of the program. And it was actually a very important experience,you know, I got out of Harvard,I was arrogant, I thought I was holier than thou, and this was a real humbling experience that was especially important for me, because the next year I went to work in Asia, and there,the worst that I could do was to be arrogant. So this humbling experience actually helped me a great deal in my future career, as well as helped me put things in perspective. When I came to Harvard,I was the only one in my program to fail the general qualifying exams, it was a hard blow,it was difficult, but it turned out to be a very good experience,you know why? Because I had to study the exact same material and these huge books and articles all over again, and know them not just at the basic level, I had to know them extremely well because that was the condition that the professors gave for me staying in the program. And it was so good because I learned the material so well that I know social psychology today probably better than anyone I know,and that helps me a great deal. It helps me a great deal in putting together this course 1504, and there is no place I would rather be than here. God,I am so lucky. Thank you. Same reality,different interpretations. Just remember,much of what we experience, we co-create. See you next week. 



 Chapter 7: 感激


I ended last time by sharing some biographical details about my life. Some people asked me after,"are they really true?" So yes,they are absolutely true. And I told the incident from two different perspectives— first as a fault finder,and then as a merit finder. Now the important thing to keep in mind when we think about the merit finder is that it's not that the merit finder does not experience pain or disappointment, or anger,or humility,or fear,or disappointment. It's very disappointing to say the least, not to be able to pursue one's goal, if the goal happens to be a professional career in squash. It is very humiliating to be the only person who fails of a program and to have to walk around for a whole year in William James while feeling like you have a horn coming out of head. It's not fun. It's painful. However,the difference between a merit finder,sorry, a benefit finder and a fault finder is that, the benefit finder understands that while things don't necessarily happen for the best, it is possible to make the best of things that happen. Things will be OK. Things will turn out fine. It may take a while. Until I see the benefit of it,it may take a while and I will get over the humiliation or the pain or the disappointment. But that,too,shall pass. In other words,The benefit finder understands that these feelings are temporary,gives him or herself the permission to be human and then understands things will turn out fine at the end. I know that. Been there. Done that. Part of life. Permission to be human,which includes permission to experience these emotions and also the permission to fail. We'll talk a lot about this permission to fail when we talk about perfectionism. Because perfectionism is real intense for your failure or we feel it's all or nothing. Either we have a complete flawless record,or it's useless. It's either phenomenal,or catastrophe. All or nothing. The benefit finder understands that nature, the human nature dictates that we have painful emotions and human nature, or being human dictates we also fail. And that,too,shall pass. There are many benefits to be a benefit finder. So the first benefit is we simply feel better. We are happier for it. But there are many many others. For example, Suzanne Thompson from Pomona University did following research. She went to people who had just lost their homes in a fire in California. There were many of them at the time- it was a large wildfire. And many people lost their homes and she interviewed them after that. And she distinguished who were benefit finders and fault finders: the benefit finders didn't say "I'm so glad it happened", but they said "well there are some positive here- I can start a new; it's a fresh start; and now I'll appreciate my home more; my family is OK; and I'm relieved and that's good. So they focused on the positive. When she followed up with these individuals, those who were benefit finders as opposed to fault finders were happier in the long term,were able to, were experiencing more positive moods,and less likely to be anxious and had less physical symptoms. Both psychological as well as physical consequences. Numerous,a lot of research on health benefits-for example, Glenn Affleck did research with individuals who had a heart attack. And there were some individuals who saw it as the catastrophe, the end of the world. There were others who were certainly not happy about it, but said "OK,so this is a wake-up call. It's actually some positive here, because it is telling me I need to take care of myself better". Or it helped them revise their personal values. Those individuals who saw the positive,the benefit, who are able to see the wake-up call there were more likely to survive 8 years later; less likely to have a second heart attack. Now that sounds pretty obvious, because you know they change their life style. But it's not just about changing life style. Julienne Bower we talked about last time from UCLA looked at AIDS patient and identified the benefit finders there- not the people who said "I'm so glad that I have AIDS", but rather the people who said "as a result of that, I am able to appreciate certain things more; as a result of that, I focus more on the things that really matter; as a result,I am getting closer to certain people". The benefit finders,when she followed up 4 to 9 years later, the benefit finders were more likely to survive, were more likely to be alive. Research by Laura King and Minor: what they showed was that it can also be used as an intervention. So it's not just people who are born benefit finders or fault finders - and we know there is a genetic component too, but there could be an intervention. So they brought in people who'd experienced traumas in their lives and they had them write about these traumas and their "perceived" benefits of the trauma. Those who wrote about the "perceived benefit" of the trauma were physically healthier and psychologically healthier,happier. Another research on cancer patients. The women came in and wrote about their cancer. And they wrote about "good things that came out of my experience with cancer". The women who wrote about this, visited the doctor office less often, were more likely to survive their cancer. Just by changing their perspective,by changing their focus. Now these women did not say "it happened for the best". Maybe some did; but most did not. They said "I wish I didn't have this cancer". However it happened,you know. Stuff happens. The question is what we do with it; how we interpret it after. Then they said to themselves "OK,so we get closer to our family; I'm appreciating life so much more now; I can enjoy the breath or flower, or I couldn't before my family so much closer now; I know who my real friends are". And they found benefit in it. Not for the best. But they made the best of the things that happened. And that made the difference even to their mortality rates. There's a lot of research on optimism, benefit-finding and longevity. For example, in a sample of 839 residents in the Mayo clinic, when they looked at them, they identified the benefit finders and fault finders. The benefit finders that are optimists were,after 2 years, were 19% more likely to survive. By far,the most influential and interesting study done in this area of benefit finding and optimism was the nun study. The nun study showed in many ways that the Bible was correct, that joy does prolongeth our lives. And the nun study was done,started in 1932. In 1932,178 nuns who just completed their training- they were around the age of 22,just about to embark on their mission were tested on numerous accounts. One of the things they did was write biographical sketches of themselves. And we had this data for decades. And psychologists just very recently opened up the data and wanted to look at it, wanted to understand what predicts longevity. Which of the nuns are still alive today? How long did they live? OK,this was done in 1932 when they were avergae age of 22. And they looked for predictors of longevity so they looked at how complex their essays were- in other words,their intellectual capacities, zero correlation to longevity; they looked at place of residence- maybe they lived in places with less or more pollution that would impact how long they lived, zero correlation- California,Boston,no difference; they looked at how devout they were,their levels of belief at that time at the age of 22- didn't predict longevity. There was one thing and one thing alone that predicted how long they would live. And that was positive feelings. What they did,the researchers, was looking at the biographical sketches- now they had no idea who these women were, so it was a completely blind study- double blind. And they looked, they categorized the writings into four categories: the most positive,the least positive and two categories in between. And then they compared the most positive quartile to the least positive quartile. And here are the results that they found. Let me give you a sample though before so that you get a sense of what a positive sample is and what a less positive sample is. So here is Cecilia O'Payne from the positive quartile: "God started my life off well by bestowing upon me grace of inestimable value. The past year which I spent as a candidate studying at Notre Dame has been a very happy one. Now I look forward with eager joy to receiving the Holy Habit of Our Lady and to a life of union with Love Divine." Happy. Joy. Love. This is a positive person. Now here is someone from the least positive quartile. As you'll see,this is not someone who is particularly negative, but not a person who focuses on positive,on joy,on happiness. Marguerite Donnelly: "I was born on September 26,1909, the eldest of seven children,five girls and two boys. My candidate year was spent in the motherhouse, teaching chemistry and second year Latin at Notre Dame Institute. With God's grace,I intend to do my best for our Order, for the spread of religion and for my personal sanctification." Again,very factual. But not as positive as much of a merit finder, an optimist as Cecilia O'Payne. Let's look at some of the data now. At the age of 85,at the age of 85—and again, this is a looking back,90% of the most cheerful quartile were alive and just 34% of the least cheerful quartile were alive. This is significant difference. Now that dosen't mean that there aren't some fault finders who lived to 120 and merit finders who died of a heart attack at 30. Of course,there are. But on average, the best predictor what accounts for the most of the variance, in terms of longevity in the study, was positive feelings- positivity in general. Here is 9 years later. Same study. At the age of 94, 54% of the most cheerful quartile were still alive while just 11% of the least cheerful quartile were alive. These are remarkable results. Again,you have some sketches. You analyze them,not knowing who lived and who died. And just based on the single factor- positivity, you are able to predict with remarkable significant levels. You are able to predict longevity- who will be alive and who will not be. Now when I look at this data- and there's a lot more data on longevity,on health, on well-being,I said to myself,"Wow. So this is fantastic! Benefit finding really works! Being an optimistic is good!" And I have two questions then,"Why isn't everyone optimistic?" If we become happier,if we become healthier, why not,why aren't we all optimistic? That's the first question. The second question is: alright,so I want to be more optimistic. How do I become that? So first one: why aren't more people optimistic? Second: how do I become opticmistic? I am going to answer these two questions. Let me begin with the first. One of the main reasons why there aren't more people who are optimistic is that optimists are considered detached. And how do we know that? Well,or what leads to the sense of detachment, to the notion that optimists are detached? It's mostly the media. Because what do we see? We mostly see hatred. We mostly see blood shed. We mostly see unhappiness. We see terrorism. And then,when someone says "well I'm optimistic; I think the world is a good place", that person- what? Are you out of your mind? You are detached Pollyanna. Just look at all the terrible things in the world. How can you be in such a world- how can you be optimistic? How can you be positive? How can you talk about joy and happiness? And positive psychology in a world like this? You must be Pollyannish. In many ways,the message of Thomas Hobbes is correct: you know,life is short,brutish,nasty and poor. And that seems much more likely to be true than an optimistic sense of life. Let's look at some of the headlines. I got these just a couple of weeks ago as I was preparing for this particular lecture. So Venezuela. A missing jet. Flight delays. Ok,this is the elections. Fresh violence in Kosovo. So a new state is created,and there is violence. This is the focus. Hundreds of home damaged by quake. And so on. Turkey launches incursion into Iraq. Blood (There will be Blood vs No Country for Old Man)dual for Oscar. OK,that's a good one I guess. Yeah. Tori Spelling dishes... OK,let's move on. So that was CNN. Here is... What was that? Forget which paper I got. I think this is Reuters. Iran nuclear question remains. And you know again,Turkey. Protest ambassies. EU. So on and so on. Negativities. This is Fox News. What's the focus? This kid's mom wants out. A mother leaves her child. You know it's not focusing on the millions, billions of mothers who embrace their children. It's the mother who wants out. And then they tell why- you know, what led the mother to want out of this relationship. And so on and so on. So much negative. How can we be positive in a world like this? It would be really unrealistic of us,wouldn't it? Well,I want to show you an excerpt now by my favorite psychologist,Ellen DeGeneres. Ellen DeGeneres (Excerpt from "Here and Now" in 2003): So I was watching the news the other day. Brought to you by Paxal. Well now I need it. Smart advertising. That's another thing when i was a kid the news was once a day. You either caught it or missed it. Now the news is on 24 hours a day. And that's not enough. They got a guy talking and there's a crawl down there. So you got that guy talkin and you got the crawl going and you're online and you put your opinion and you put.. "Nooo!!..I said to that nooo...!" There should be one crawl that goes around over and over again: "Things are getting worse". That's all we need. And the local news- man! They want to you to watch every broadcast they've got,don't they? It's not good enough you watch the one you want? They just... These teases get you to watch it later on. They are so incredible cruel. "It could be the most deadly thing in the world that you may be having it for dinner. We'll tell you what it is tonight at 11." Is it ..peas? I feel sorry for the news-casters,you know. We can turn it off. But that's their job and they have to read these stories and they're just coming up at the teleprompter. They don't know what's coming up and they got to go through these range of emotions and that... "There were no survivors. And next, which candybar helps you lose weight? Still to come, it's an asteroid heading towards earth. But first,where to find the cheesiest pizza in town? Also,a disturbing new study finds that studies are disturbing." She really is one of the most brilliant psychologists I know. And we'll see a lot of her throughout the semester. Now...so the media does it. The media does focus to the great extent on the negative. And that's not just a bad thing. Because one of the roles of media in a civil society is to highlight wrongs that can be righted,to inspire people, to act,to change,to make the world a better place. However,we need to realize that the media doesn't just report reality as it is. It highlights certain aspects of reality. And there is a media bias involved. Now the media bias is not,you know,left-leaning CNN or Reuters versus right-leaning Fox and Wall Street Journal. That's not the bias I am talking about. I am talking about bias toward the negative. The media focuses,highlights the negative. It acts as a magnifying glass rather than as a looking glass. And we need to keep that in mind,and to correct for that. The media dosen't just reflect reality as it is. Reality is not the frontpage of the New York Times or the Wall Street Journal. That's not reality. That's highlighting a specific area of reality and magnifying it. It accentuates the negative,focuses on the negative- the war in,with Turkey,or,the blood spilled in Kosovo, or the mom leaving her child. The hatred. And what it does,when it does that, is also underrepresent the positive. Now if you think about it, this is exactly two of the three mental distortions that we talked about. Magnifying the negative. Minimizing the positive. In other words,what the media does is to distort our perception. It actually makes us into pessimists, especially because the news is on 24 hours a day. And we are constantly bombarded by negativity after negativity after negativity. And where do we get the positive? 30 seconds at the end of the news. Oh yes,there's also a little bit good stuff going on. And it's just to make you smile so that you come back tomorrow or the next hour for more bad news. Negativity after negativity after negativity. Distorting. Creating these cognitive distortions, the psychological traps that we talked about under cognitive behavior,under cognitive therapy. And we become pessimistic. Is it any wonder that most people are pessimistic when the media has such an impact on us? Again,not to belittle the role of the media. But what I am doing is highlighting certain aspect that we need to be cognizant of,that we need to counter. And how we counter- we'll talk about it in a minute. So what does the media highlight? The frauds- Martha Stewart, or Enron,or Worldcom. Highlighting these frauds, but not reporting on the millions and billions of honest transactions that takes place everyday, right now as we speak. Highlighting the negative. Ignoring the positive. Millions and billions of honest transactions taking place all the time,all around us constantly. Now what else is happening? What we are doing, what the media is helping us to do is extrapolate from a few instances where people want to hurt, while ignoring the millions and billions of people who are dedicating their lives to helping spread the happiness in the world,whether it's in soup kitchens to help the world a better place, or whether it's writing in our back yard. Over 1800 Harvard students volunteer as part of Phillips Brooks House. Remember the false stereotype that I talked about- whether it's here at Harvard or in the United States, so many people dedicate so much time to helping. And yet the focus is on the few that hurt. And that creates certain scheme in our mind while we think the world must be a bad place. The focuses are on terrorism primarily. But what about the millions and billions of people who want to live in peace? Again,this doesn't mean we need to ignore terrorism or the bad,or the negative – this is one important role of the media. At the same time,we shouldn't also ignore the good. The focus in media is mostly on people hurting other people. For example,through rape,while ignoring millions and billions of people who are making love everyday. And not just in fairy tales, people all over the world- I've no idea who they are. I hope they are not in the classroom. There is Google image. And not just around the world. Also,right here- in Harvard yard. I don't know if they still have this survey, but the last one I found online was 04. I don't know what happened since. Now for those of you who don't believe that there are people also at Harvard right here who make love. Here is a proof of positive that some do. He's so cute. And the baby is adorable. OK. OK. OK. Now what I'm saying here is not that we need to ignore the bad, not that we need to ignore what's not working. We should focus on it. We should look at it. We should improve the world. At the same time, we should also understand that people who say to the optimist, to the benefit finder "Get real" are actually missing the point. Because it's not the benefit finder who's detached. It's the fault finder who is. Because there is much more good in the world than bad. Much more. In fact,it's not just about focusing on the "full half" or,the "full half". It's focusing on the 90%. Because there is a lot more good than bad in our world. And it's important not just because it is a nice thing to do, not just because it makes us healthier and happier. It's important because focus creates reality. I mean we saw it on so many levels. We saw it with the children on the bus that we didn't notice. We saw it when it came to Marva Collins who said "let's focus on the seed of greatness in these individuals". We saw it with the research on resilience when the focus was on "why are so many failing" versus "what make some individuals succeed" despite the unfavorable circumstances. Focus creates reality. Also,think about it. I mean when we read about frauds and dishonesty in newspaper constantly,what we begin to believe- what we naturally begin to believe is "well,you want to be successful? You want to become the CEO of a Fortune 500 company, like Enron? You have to engage in fraud. There is no real other way to succeed. Why? Because the millions of other people who are succeeding honestly are not reported on, are mostly not reported on. And that's what we focus on. Not to say it's not important to have whistle blower and to talk about these things. It's equally important though to also focus on those who do it honestly and well, because there are vast majority,way over 90%. Because if we don't,then the person will think "well, if I want to succeed in business, then you know I have to bend the rules". And when an ethical decision comes up, when he or she becomes the manager at the age of 35,they say "well,the only way to succeed is I bend the rules slightly". And that creates self-fulfilling prophecy. Or,how many people here- seriously show of hands- once thought of going into politics,becoming governor, or President,or Prime Minister? How many people thought of going...No,other than me. OK,quite a lot. I mean,we know that, at Harvard,there are quite a few... Now out of those who put the hands up, how many people were told by others "you shouldn't go into politics- you are too honest"? Too honest. You know,we hear it all the time. And that becomes self-fulfilling prophecy, because many honest people who could potentially make the world a better place by going into politics don't go in. Because "politicians are crooks". Well,politicians are not crooks. Yes,there are politicians who are crooks,but they are the minority. The majority do honest work, want to make the world a better place. They surely make mistakes. They are human after all, but with good intentions,within ethical code. You know it's a wonder that there is so much good in our world, while the focus is so much on the bad. It really is a wonder to me. It just shows how powerful human nature, and how powerful the good part of our nature is, because we can sustain goodness. Also,how about this?- The constant chattering in our mind is "why didn't I do this? Why haven't I done the reading yet? Why haven't I completed my paper? Why did I say that to that person? Why did she said that back to me?" Mostly,negative chatter. How often do we have the chatter "well you know I have a really lovely conversation today"? Or "you know,I just finish so much work- I was productive. I did so well." "Wow,I just got an A- and I didn't even work that hard for it." I mean,of course,not here,but seen other places. Why don't we have these kind of chattering in our mind? Again,because our schema focuses on negative. We are going to talk about change next week and we'll understand there are actual neural pathways that have been created by media, by the focus on what is not working. Having created it so we gravitate toward becoming fault finders. How we change that? We'll talk about that in a minute. It's important to focus on the good. You know what they say about Ghandi? That the most important thing that he did for his country that he made India proud of itself. He made India proud of itself. That is so important to do. What about America? Are you proud of America? Do we living here or,as Americans,the majority here, do you make America proud of itself? Because you know America has faults. It is not a perfect country. It has made mistakes from 1776 and will continue to make mistakes for,hopefully for many years to come. But still,I would argue,the greatest country in the world. So many people want to come here,want to live here. Why? Because of the freedom. Because of the opportunities. Again,not perfect,but a great country. Do we appreciate America? Do we appreciate its greatness? Because if we don't,we can pay a high price. It's in vogue now "US bashing" in this country. In this place. And the problem is when we just focus on bashing, when we just focus on the negative, we create a worse reality rather than improving the reality. So yes,we need to be critical. And one of the virtues of this great country is that you can stand out in the street or write in articles and critize the politicians,the system,other people. It's one of the great contributions of this country: free speech. But at the same time,we also have the freedom and we should exercise the freedom to focus on what is working on the good. Because appreciating is important,whether it's a country, whether it's a relationship,whether it's individual, whether it's students,whether it's teachers. Appreciation is important. The meaning of "appreciate" from dictionary: valuing; the act of recognizing the best in people or the world around us; affirming past and present strengths and potentials; to perceive those things that give life (health,vitality,excellence) to living systems. So the first meaning of appreciate is to say thank you. That's a nice thing to do, but it's much more than just a nice thing to do. We talked about this before. The second meaning of appreciate is increasing value: the economy appreciates; money in the bank appreciates. And that's an important meaning, because when we appreciate the good,the good appreciates. When we appreciate the good in our lives, when we appreciate the good in other people, when you appreciate the good in our country, we get more of it. Unfortunately,the opposite is also the case. When we don't appreciate something,whether it's ourselves, whether it's our country,whether it's our relationship, the good depreciates. Remember I talked about it in the past. Is it any wonder so many relationships flounder, fail after the honeymoon phase? If the main question becomes "what's wrong?" or "How can we improve the relationship?" and if we just ask this question, our focus becomes on what is not working,on the weaknesses. And we ignore the virtues,the strength, the things that worked and are working. And when we don't focus on these things,they depreciate. As far as we are concerned,they don't exist, just like the children on the bus that not exist for you as far as you were concerned. What appreciating does is in essence create a growth spiral. Let me expand. Let me just give you a random example. Let's say,Monday morning,or Tuesday morning, you are walking toward 1504. And suddenly you see a friend of yours. A friend of yours you know who's genuine, is real- someone you trust. And your friend looks at you and says,"Wow. You look fantastic!" Now,how do you feel at that point? You feel fantastic. And you know you walk a little bit more pride, more proud and you walk into the classroom just here. And another friend sees you and says,"Wow! You look fantastic!" And how do you feel at this point? Well,fantastic-er! And then you come in. You sit down here. And another friend who you haven't seen for a month sees you, "Wow! You look fantastic!" And how do you feel at this point? Fantastic-ist! And so on and so on and so on- made you day in an upward spiral. Now think about a slightly different scenario. You walk in 1504 on Thursday morning. And suddenly a friend of yours whom you trust and value sees you and says,"oh my God,what's wrong?" Now there may have been nothing wrong before; there is a lot wrong now. And you walk in the door, and someone sees you and says,"oh my Lord." And how do you feel? You feel even worse. And you sit down and you see someone else who looks at you, just completely shocked. And you are feeling worse-r and worse-ist. And so on and so on and so on in a downward spiral. Appreciation creates upward spiral. And we know,sometimes,one sentence,one word at the beginning of the day- and you have a wonderful day,or week. This research showing how a single sentence very often can impact an entire life. This is work done by Bandura. Single sentence of appreciation can give us strength to go on. Now the key here: it has to be genuine appreciation. One of the things we'll talk about when we discuss self-esteem is how destructive and harmful ingenuine appreciation is. And now I am not talking about your boyfriend or girlfriend ask you "so how do I look" having just come out, come back from a day and worn something the whole night. You are not going to tell them "well,actually awful". So OK. We are not talking about these grey areas. But it has to be real. It has to be connected to reality. We'll talk about that much more when we talk about self-esteem. The key though is that you need to understand there is always something real to appreciate. Think about the study with the cancer patients,or AIDS patients. Even they were able to find something good in a very difficult, tragic scenario,situation. And when they appreciate the good, when they find benefit in that situation,the good appreciates. It grows. Oprah,a real benefit finder: "What you focus on expands,and when you focus on the goodness in your life,you create more of it. Opportunities,relationships,even money flowed my way when I learned to be grateful no matter what happened in my life." Because what we focus on appreciates. Again,the metaphore that I have been talking about throughout the course: the seed- what happens to a seed if we don't water it? If we don't shed a light on it? What happens to that seed is that it withers and dies. And that,unfortunately,is the fate of most human potential. Most relationship potential. Most countries. And if we want it to grow,want it to blossom, we have to shed a light on it. We have to water it. This is exactly what Marva Collins did with the seed of greatness that existed in every one of her students. This is what the Pygmalion,the classic experiment showed, was that when teachers were made to focus on the potential in those individuals who were deemed "fast spurters". When they were made to focus on it,to shed a light on- when a light is shed on their potential, that's when the children grew. That's when they fulfilled much more of their potential. So how do we correct the false schema? What do we do about it? Let me share with you something on the societal level,something on the individual level. On the societal level,create good news. Not enough of it around. Now people say it's not marketable, it's boring- well,OK. A lot of it is not marketable. Part of it is because it is the norm,it's the usual. But why not report on the great technical advances that are making life better? Why not report much more on the great medical advances? Why not report much more on peace? And well-being? You know a situation stops being interesting once there is peace. It's interesting when there's a war. Well why not focus more on these areas? Here is a newspaper that was started online- Good News Network,that I highly recommend you to go onto. Just in a couple of last years it was started. Getting people to focus on what is working. You know about Albert Einstein, about Cambodia gaining independence on that day in '53. Berlin Wall. You know,focusing, reminding ourselves of historical good as well as on present good and they have great news that they talk about. Another,Geemundo,another,I don't even know what that means but another online newspaepr that focuses on things that work. Why not start a day with that,well,in addition to opening the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times. Looking at that as well. Just to counter the negative schema. Art. So important. So important in creating a better world, in changing our internal schema. Look at the light in Vermeer's- Renaissance artist in his picture A light during a time when there was not much light. I mean consider the Dark Ages. The Middle Ages. But the artists focused on what is working on the light, on the human potential and paved the way the Renaissance. It all started with arts. Or in 18th and 19th century,Romantics. Beethoven or Victor Hugo. They encountered a harsh reality. But they focused also on heroic,on the great, on the human potential. Aristotle once said, "fiction is more important than history." Because history depicts life as it is, where the fiction depicts life as it can or ought to be. As it can or ought to be. The human potential. And that paved the way to much higher levels of freedom and equality in the world. Or 1930s' America. In many ways the heyday of Hollywood were directors like Cukor, Capra,Sturges,created masterworks during a time when there was Great Depression. And people used to go to the cinema and watched these films to inspire them and helped them get through the difficult time- it was also between the two- you know, the Great War and the WWII. Difficult time in the world. World recovering and then plunging into another war. And yet the artists continued to inspire. Not ignoring what is not working. Not ignoring,but improving. That,by the way,is my favorite movie,Sullivan's Travels. Modern art as well. Wouldn't it be lovely if we go into a gallery and we feel inspired by the art- whether it's by photography, whether it's by sculpting,whether it's by movies or books? There has be much more of it. Again,one of the roles of the artists is also to highlight what is not working so that it is improved. But if an artist,if an individual is really concerned about improving the good in the world,it is not enough to only focus or highlight what's not working. Because if we don't highlight the good, if we don't appreciate the good as well,the good depreciates. Positive psychology- this is what it is very much about. Remember there are two things that positive psychologists do. What they study the first thing that they do is focusing on what works. Second thing that they do is focusing on the extraordinary on the tip of the stem. And by doing that,the words of Miriam, they democratize excellence. Because they are focusing on the good, not ignoring what works in each individuals, not ignoring the extraordinary individuals, the Marva Collins of the world, the resilient kids in at-risk population and so on. Another reason in addition to media why we tend to ignore the good and focus mostly on the bad is that we adapt. We adapt to what is common and what drives us, what's interesting to us is the uncommon. The exception rather than the rule. And because there is so much more good in the world- it's so much more common,we adapt to it. We stop seeing it after a while,whereas the bad- the exception always captures our attention. Why? Because nature create us such that we are changed detecters. We are changed detecters. And whenever there is a change, our mind immediately goes to that change. Something different that happens,whether it's something we see, or something we hear (sound: car alarm set off in the background) for those of you who were asleep. It's the exception that wakes us up. And that's a good thing. It's a good thing that nature creates us that way. Because it helps us in case of danger. Because it helps us for example,hear when there is a lion coming toward us or trying to creep up toward us. It helps us smell poison. Something that is different,that changed. It also helps us hear a sleeping baby it's incredible how this works. Fast asleep- you know there, there can be- the house may be falling. You don't get up, but there is a baby crying and you are up in a second. We are change detectors. And nature created us such- or God has created us such so that we can survive better. Now it's actually a good thing that we adapt on a few levels. First of all,if we didn't adapt, if we are hearing all the noises,we will quite literally go nuts Because there are so many noises right now going on in addition to what you are listening to. People typing. People breathing. Once in a while car from the outside. And we would go crazy if we were always atune to everyithing that was going on. So it's good that we adapt. That's why people can live literally on the highway and still fall asleep at night. Because after a month or so,they stop hearing the cars there. We have relatives in Concord, who live quite literally on top of the train. And we went to visit him for dinner and a train passes by. And you know the house shakes. And it's enormous noise. And at the beginning of the time, we looked at each other,and he smiled. And second time the train goes by. The house shakes and huge noise. And I couldn't help myself and said,"Dosen't that bother you?" And he said,"What?" He didn't know what I was talking. I said,"The train just passed." He said, "Oh. We don't notice it anymore because it passes every half an hour or every 20 minutes." They don't notice it. So good thing that we can adapt. Also in terms of difficulty. Personally the most difficult experience that I endured was on the 19th of September,in  19th of December,1997. I was living in Singapore at the time. My best friend was coming over from Indonesia to visit me. The person who was the most important to me at that time and her plane crashed. SilkAir Flight MI 185. Some of you may remember this. And my world crumbled. For the first time in my life, I felt that I didn't want to go on anymore. I had no energy. And I called up my family. And I called up another person who had made a lot of difference in my life, Nathaniel Branden,for various reasons. First of all,Nathaniel Branden had just- he's a wellknown author and psychologist- he's just visited Singapore. He just met Bonny.And I called him up because he was a psychologist whom I thought could help me. But also because at the age of 45,he lost his wife who drowned in a pool when she had apoplectic fit. He found her drowned when he came back home in their pool, in their home. So he'd been through that,but 25 years earlier. So I wanted to talk to him to get his advice. I was on the phone and could hardly get my words across- I was crying constantly. And he said to me, "Tal,what I am going to tell you now is not going to make sense. But it's true. You are going to get over this. I know you are. We get over losses. It's difficult. It's painful. Cry. Give the emotions their spaces. But you are going to get over it. We get over painful emotions. We all do. Because if we hadn't,then God help us all." Because if we hadn't,then God help us all. And it took a long time. It was after 3 months that I could start working again. It took a whole year for me to feel some of the bounds, some of the passion for life that I felt before. But now I think about Bonny. And I smiled wistfully,sadly. But I can also appreciate the good times that we have together. And the privilege that I had of meeting her. We adapt and that's a good thing. That's an important thing. Because God help us all if we hadn't. There is another side though to that equation. There is another side. When we adapt,we also take things for granted. And that's not a good thing. Because we take for granted our family that we care about so much. And we take for granted our friends. And we take for granted the food we are about to have in the dinning hall that is served to us. What a luxury. And we take for granted the person who's sitting next to us. And we take for granted the classes we take here. Because we adapt. And it's a good thing when it comes to the negatives. It's not such a good thing when we take life for granted. And the question we need to ask is: is it possible to have it all? Is it possible to adapt to the negatives,but at the same time, not to adapt as much to the positive. There's a story in the Jewish tradition about a man who is living in one of the shtetls, one of the villages in Eastern Europe. And he really had it bad. I mean he was living in a tiny home with many kids, with a wife who was constantly nagging him. They were constantly fighting. And they were really terrible. And that man wanted to improve his law so he went to the rabbi and recounted him how terrible his life is. He said "look. We live in a small home. The kids are all over. You know no privacy whatsoever. My wife nags constantly. Rabbi,help!" So the rabbi said,"in your yard,do you have a chicken?" So he said,"yes,we have chicken." "For the next week,bring the chicken into your home." "But rabbi,what are you talking about? We have no pla..." "Bring the chicken into your home." The person was a devout man,believing his rabbi, brought the chicken for the whole week in their home. Feathers. Dirt. Stinks. You name it. The kids coutinue to fight even more. His wife nags even more. "what are you doing to us here? Our house is small as it is." "The rabbi said." And they continue to fight,and bickering. The week finally finally ends. And he runs to the rabbi and said, "rabbi,help!" And the rabbi said,"how are things going?" He said,"Well,worse! No place at home. We are fighting. It stinks. It's terrible." "My child,do you have a cow in your backyard?" "Yes,rabbi. We have a cow." "Well,bring her into the house in addition to the chickens for the week." "Rabbi,but..." "Just do it." So he brings in the cow. And again,it's awful. It stinks to the enth degree in his nose. And they don't even sleep for the whole week. And it's terrible. By the end of the week, you know he's looking terrible,disheveled. He stinks. He goes to the rabbi and says, "rabbi,help! Situation is terrible. Yes,it's so much worse." "Do you have a horse in your backyard?" "Yes,rabbi. We do. But now I understand the pattern here." "Take the horse and bring it into your house." So he takes the horse and brings it into the house. And it's awful. The horse is kicking and yelling and jumping and breaks stuff. And there's mess and chaos and bickering and... So much worse. And finally the week ends. He runs to the rabbi. And the rabbi says,"how are you doing?" "Rabbi,it's terrible! It's awful!" "OK. For the next week, why don't you take out all the animals and come and see me then?" At the end of the week, he comes and the rabbi says,"how are things going?" "Rabbi,it's wonderful. We have so much place. The smell is so good. We are getting along now like we hadn't ever before. The kids are happy. Thank you so much,rabbi." Now here is the question. Do things need to get worse before we appreciate what's right in front of us and all around us? When do we begin to appreciate our health? When do we begin to appreciate our health? When something goes wrong with us or with someone else. When do we begin to appreciate life? When ours is in danger,or when we lose someone dear to us. And the question that we need to ask ourselves is "must something external,extraordinary, unusually tragic happen for us to appreciate the ordinary?" You see there are treasures of happiness all around us and within us,right next to us- in the dinning hall, sitting next to you here,in your room at home. There are wonderful things- things that are worth your appreciation all around us or within us. But we take them for granted and do we need to wait for that. And the answer is no. No- if we learn gratitude as a way of life, if we cultivate the habit of gratitude. It is just as the media has cultivated the fault finding. We can cultivate the benefit finding. We can cultivate grateful. Because when we are grateful for something, we do not- we no longer take it for granted. G. K. Chesterton: "You say grace before meals. All right. But I say grace before the concert and the opera, and grace before the play and pantomime, and grace before I open a book,and grace before sketching, painting,swimming,fencing,boxing,walking,playing,dancing and grace before I dip the pen in the ink. Gratitude produced some...produced the most purely joyful moments that have been known to man." Think about it. Think about the last time you are grateful to someone. And you expressed that gratitude. How did you feel? And how did you make the other person feel? Or someone who was grateful to you and appreciated you? You were walking on air,created this upward spiral as a result. When it's genuine,when it's real. We don't do it enough. We don't do enough appreciation. We don't express gratitude enough, whether it's to the food that we eat,whether it's to writing, whether it's for our friends or family. So this is the most wonderful books written about the power of gratitude- it's not a research book,but a lot of these ideas that I'll talk about in a minute have researched. "About Gratitude" by Brother David Steindl-Rast. He also has a great website. If you google his name. How do we cultivate gratitude? His advice is simple and gracious. "Why not start by surveying a typical day? What is it that you tend to tackle with spontaneous mindfulness, so that without effort your whole heart is in it? Maybe it's that first cup of coffee in the morning, the way it warms you and wakes you up,or taking your dog for a walk,or giving a little child a piggyback ride. It is a matter of practice of doing it over and over again til it becomes second nature." Til it becomes a habit. Til we take a stake of gratitude and turn it into a gratitude trait. And it is possible to do it. One of the ways to do it is to identify everyday just one or two things to do mindfully,to focus on them, whether it's the first cup of coffee in the dinning hall, whether it's the walk to class,whether it's 10 minutes in the afternoon when you just listen to the music in your room, by yourself with your eyes closed and focused, appreciating your favorite piece. Taking our time to not just become wine connoisseurs but also life connoisseurs. This course is in many ways about life appreciation. He continues,(Brother David Steindl-Rast): "Gratefulness is the measure of our aliveness. Are we not dead to whatever we take for granted? Surely to be numb is to be dead.” Think about this. So Irvin Yalom,Stanford psychiatrist did a lot of research on terminally ill patients. He went to people who had 3 months, 6 months,up to a year to live,and researched this population. And what he found time and again is that these people, time and again were something to the effect of "for the first time in my life,I feel that I am alive." "For the first time in my life,I feel that I am alive." Why? "Because for the first time,I appreciate breathing." "For the first time in many years,I appreciate my husband, my wife,my friend,my children." Flower. The grass. The conversation. For the first time of my life,I appreciate it, whereas before,the focus was just not there. It was other things. On the difficulties, the hardships- mostly on the negative. And remember,as far as you are concerned, the children on a bus did not exist. As far as most people are concerned, the good things in their life,in their relationships, do not exist. Because when we are not grateful for them, when we take them for granted,as far as we are concerned, they are not there. And we are numb to these things. We are dead to these things. And it takes a wake-up call, like a terminal disease to wake us up? To get us to focus on what is right inside us or all around us all the time? Why? Why wait? Why wait? There's a lot of research on the value of gratitude. You've read one before. You'll be reading one of the articles by Robert Emmons and Michael McCullough from UC Davis. Let me summarize two studies there into one. So what they did was essentially take random group of people and divide them into four groups. First group every night before going to bed write at least five things for which you are grateful. Big things,or little things. Second group write at least five hassels in your life- five bad things that happen to you. Third group write at least five things that you are better than others at- superior to others. And the fourth group- control group write about anything that happen to you during the day. The outcome measures are that they looked at what optimism,happiness, physical health (how often they visited the doctor of the six months of the study,one of the studies), how generous and benevolent they were toward other people and finally how likely they were to achieve their goals that they set for themselves- in other words,how successful they were. The group that performed the worst was the hassels group. Five bad things that happen to you. The group that performed the best that is happist, most optimistic,most likely to achieve their goals, most generous and benevolent toward other people and healthist, was the group every night before going to bed wrote at least five things for which they were grateful. Both psychological and health benefits. The study was,in many ways the beginning, one of the first studies they conducted. The book just came out recently, called "Thanks" by Robert Emmons,which is wonderful and traces through a lot more studies and research and exercise that you can do to become more grateful, to have gratitude as a way of life. Physiological benefits such as our heart variability, which is a predictor of longevity, which is a predictor of health is increased. The parasympathetic system increases when we are grateful. And that induces calm. And that strengthens our immune system. There are also many benefits to trait gratefulness, so it is not just a state of being. It's also about the trait. How do we cultivate that? How do we cultivate that? By doing it over and over again. I do this every night. I've been doing it since 19th of September,1999. Since 19th of September,1999,I've been doing it. I've been doing it long before the 2002 study. I started to do it when Oprah told me to do it. Really. I've been doing it ever since. Let me share with you what I wrote about last night. It was 26 last night. OK. So God,family, Tomush my love- my wife,yoga- I did yoga,David- so wonderful, Sherial- precious (my two children),office hours- I had office hours yesterday and I enjoyed it a lot. Beep- sorry. Another beep- sorry. some censorship in this class is important. It took you a while but eh.. OK. Beep- no just kidding about this one. And Tommy's soup. She made this unbelievable pea soup which I had yesterday. You know,big things and little things. Big things and little things. And here are other things that I am grateful for right now. I am grateful for Shawn Achor, the head TF of the class. (Applause) I am grateful for his work,for his inspiration. I am grateful to Debb, the head of TF of the other class. (Applause) I am grateful to the teaching fellows who are investing so much time in your education, in your happiness in this course. (Applause and cheers) I am grateful to Barry who's there behind the scenes. You don't see him much. But he's responsible for so much what's happening for his support,for how humble he is,doing all that. (Applause) And I am grateful for my students, because it wouldn't be a class- I wouldn't be here today, doing what I love to, what I care about most if you weren't here. So thank you. I am grateful. (Applause) Now the key with this is to do it as well. Yes is it cheesy? Absolutely. Does it make a difference? Absolutely. You know every night I also do it with my kid,with David. And how do I do it? I ask David- he's three and a half years old, "what was fun for you today?" And he tells me and he asks me, "what was fun for you today?" I learned about it from a friend of mine who,a hand worker- who was here just a couple of classes ago. He was visiting. And I came over for dinner one day. He heard me speak about this. And he said, "I want to show you something." And he has two young kids. And they were standing around and talking about the five grateful,things for which they were grateful. These were young kids. Daniel and Maya. And I looked at it and I started to cry. It was so moving and so touching. And I've been doing it ever since with my kids. My wife do it every day on regular basis. She puts up with my cheesiness. It helps. It works because we don't take the good things in our life for granted. The key when we do this is to maintain freshness. How do we maintain freshness? One of the things that happens with this exercise is that it very often becomes a habit and we lose it. We lose the freshness of it. We lose the mindfulness of it. And we just take it for granted as an exercise. And the key is,one of the things that Lyubomirsky says, well,try to do it once a week. For some people, once a week is actually better than doing it every day. However,there's also a price. It's much less likely to become a trait if we only do it once a week. So how do we maintain freshness? Doing it every single day. How do I maintain freshness? Well,fortunately, there's a lot of research on this topic- some of them by Lyubomirsky,as well as by others. The first thing is introduce the variety. So let's say I write about Sherial and there's something that I write about every day. It's Sherial my daugter,David my son. It's Tommy my wife. It's God. I write about these things every single day. And I write about other things as well. I can write about different aspects of these things. So one day I can write about Sherial's smile. You know her beautiful,one year old,toothless smile. And another day I can write about the fact that she's taken her first steps now. So vary. Or one day I can write about,focus... One week I can focus about my work. Another week it can be mostly focus about personal things. And so on. Variety really is the spice of life- makes a difference here. Second, Ellen Langer talks about mindfulness. she defines mindfulness as creating novel distinctions. It's similar to creating variaty. Looking at the things that I haven't seen before, that I haven't looked at before. This is also a way to maintain love. You know people talk about how over time you become, you adapt to your relationships. well, there's something new to discover about a person every time, whether it's about my parents,whether it's about lover, whether it's about my friends. Creating novel distinctions. Looking at it mindfully. Focusing on it. And maintaining freshness through this focus. Visualizing it. Steven Kosslyn from William James Hall, head of our department did research, showing that kids actually visualize most words. So when you see- let's say mother, immediately the picture of mother comes up. Or it's very often for us when we talk these words unautomatic, we no longer visualize it, which is why it takes kids longer to think. Because they are still visualizing the words. It is not unautomatic anymore, which also explains why kids live like kids, why they are able to appreciate the simplist of things, to be mesmerized by airplane up there. Or when they talk about what they did at day care. They live like children. And what we have become over the years. We adapt to it. We become numb to a lot of these things. So one of the ways to chip away the numbness, one of the ways to do it is to visualize. And when we visualize, we start to see things once again like kids do. Next time we'll continue with this, but I want to end today by sharing a story with you. A story about the person who, to me more than anyone else captures what benefit finder is. A person who is my role model when it comes to focusing also on the good. My grandmother was born in 1915 in Sighet,Romania. She had a very regular childhood. She was the youngest daughter of 7- one more sisters,5 more bothers. And they were doing well. Many of her brothers became important rabbis,violinists,musicians. And she was a young girl,happy,living a normal life, until 1940 which was when Hitler invaded Romania. Hitler invaded Romania and her life changed radically. Her entire family was taken to one concentration camp after the other,ending up in Auschwitz. In Auschwitz,she had over a dozen nieces and nephews were all murdered. Her five brothers and parents were murdered in front of her very eyes. At the end of the war,somehow,she and her sister survived. The British came to Auschwitz to liberate the prisoners. And when they came,they came in with a doctor. And the doctor would go through the prisoners. Most of them were of course dead; those who were alive, he would say take that person,leave that person here. Because they had limited resources,limited places. Those prisoners who they thought would not survive, they left them there. And it came to my grandmother, who weighed the time 26 kilos which is 54 pounds. My grandmother was a large woman- 54 pounds. And said,leave. And then he saw her sister who was right next to her,who weighed 36 kilos- 79 pounds. And he said,he made this motion to put her on the truck. And of course,she was too weak to get out. So the British soldiers picked up my grandmother's sister whose name is Shanti. They picked Shanti up and Shanti held on to her sister. And she wouldn't let go. And they tried to open her grip. And even though she was weak and sick, they couldn't open her grip. So the doctor said,fine,take them both. So they took them both. And they put them on the truck. And they were,of course, certain that my grandmother would die. A month passed and she survived though she didn't put on a single gram. Any day they thought she would die,but she refused to die. After three months,she started putting on weight. She survived. Six months later,she went back to Sighet, to see what was remained from her home. She arrived there,got off the cart with the horse. And the man by the name of Joseph- Jose saw her. And he saw a woman who was stooped,who still had no hair. But he recognized those eyes. Because those eyes were proud. And those eyes were alive. He recognized Goldie. And he took her with him. And two weeks later,they got married. And Goldie got better and got pregnant and gave birth to a stillborn. And she got pregnant again and once again gave birth to a stillborn. They made their way to Tel Aviv from Romania. They were caught by the British. It was British mandate at that time. They were caught by British and sent back to a concentration camp in Cyprus. And there,in the concentration camp, my grandmother in Cyprus had another baby. A baby girl who survived. And then they had another boy who was stillborn. And my grandmother could have no more children. Her body had endured too much. My grandmother survived and thrived. As did Shanti. Shanti could have no children, but my mother was her child too. And I was her grandchild as well. I remember, this was in October of 1988. Shanti had passed away a few years earlier. And we went to the cemetery on the day that she passed away, to say some prayers over her tombstone. And I went with my grandmother. And we walked there. And my grandmother stook in front of the tombstone. And on the tombstone,we engraved not just Shanti's name, but the names of all the brothers and her parents. And she looked at the tombstone- and I thought she talked to shanti- and said to her, "we are so fortunate,aren't we? We are so lucky. And look Talik is here." She called me Talik. And then she told her what I was doing. And she told her what my brothers and sisters were doing- their grandchildren. And about my mother and father. And how wonderful thing were. And she was talking about the wonderful things. And she was crying once in a while,missing Shanti. She was so human,just standing there, and talking half Yiddish,half Hebrew. Once in a while,talking to me. And to her sister who saved her life. And she said to me,"let's go." And we walked together. Thousands of tombs around us. We walked along the path toward the car. It was a beautiful October day. The sun was out. The wind was blowing. The trees were swinging. And she suddenly stopped. She stopped and looked up. And she stood so proud,so poised. And she held my hand so tight,looking up and looking at me. She sais,"Tal,it's such a beautiful world. Just a pity we have to leave." And she smiled. And we walked. My grandmother saw thousands of corpes. She saw her family murdered in front of her very eyes. She had three stillborn children. She did not ignore the terrible things in life. How could she? However,at the same time, she also refused to ignore the good things in life. The wonderful things in life. And she was grateful. And she survived. My grandmother told me that this is a beautiful world. I believe her. Thank you.(Applause) 



 Chapter 8: 积极情绪


So first I wanna say hi to extention school. We have 350 students watching our lecture every day. So I wanna say hi to them. And actually I want to especially invite extention school and everybody here to see our very modest Tal- right?- he didn't tell us he was on 60 Minutes,but that is OK. But Saturday night, Tal is going to be the honerary basketball coach for the women's team, which- the game against Cornell on Saturday at 7 o'clock, which is the biggest game of the season... Six? Six o'clock on Saturday. The biggest game of the season. We actually wanna see everyone of you here and everybody at the extention school at the game. Extention students,I'll have free tickets for you. Well,most of you- a hundred of you. So in honor of that, we have an honorary student and an honorary team which is, our very famous Kathy Delaney-Smith,award-winning, the most fabulous coach in a whole nation and... our women's basketball team is here! Come on now! These are our honorary students. There you go. They are shy. Alright,so come! Come and see them! And actually I'll be there with all my friends and families. And Tal will sign your hand. Alright! Ready guys? (One player: Yeah.) This is the biggest game. These are the Ivy League Champs last year! Alright. Give 'em a throw. Throw 'em out. Throw 'em out! Go! Go! Go! Let's go! Go! Go! Let's go! Hahaha. Alright. Thank you. Thanks. I'll see you all on Saturday. Good luck. Thanks. OK. I didn't plan this,but... (Tal blows a whistle.) Alright. Alright,do I have anything else? Oh. OK. Thank you .And thank you. And we are going to continue talking about gratitude. So... Last time,I ended by talking about my role model- the person who to me exemplifies, more than anyone else what a true benefit finder is. And when I told about my grandmother,I told the... I told you how she wasn't ignoring what wasn't working, she wasn't ignoring the evil,the bad,the negative in her life. However,the same time,she refused to ignore the positive. In other words,what she insisted on was staying real. Being real. Being connected to what was around her. And when it was evil and bad, she was connected to that and at the same time, she was also connected to the good. Benefit finder is not about being a detached Pollyanna. Far from it. The question we asked last time- and I want to end the lecture today on gratitude before we move on to change- was: one, why are not more people benefit finders? Why are more people not optimistic? I mean,you saw the research. People live longer. They are happier,healthier,more successful. Why isn't everyone a benefit finder? Why aren't we all optimists? If it pays, in both the ultimate currency- the currency of happiness as well as in hard currency- success currency? Why are not more people benefit finders? And the answer to that was,to great extent, because of the media. What we have in the media is magnifying,zooming in, magnifying the negative,maximizing it, having it take the entire screen,the entire page, while minimizing the positives. And in many ways,the media makes fault finders out of us. And we need to counter that. How do we counter that? On the macro level,by having good news channels,for example. On the micro level,by having more inspiring art. Art throughout history has changed the world- whether it was during the dark ages, at the transition to the Renaissance, whether it was during 18th and 19th century with Romantic artists and paving the road to freedom, whether it was in mid 1930s and 40s with the Renaissance in many ways of Hollywood,bringing more hope to people. So art plays a very important role, and hopefully,will continue to do so. So then we talked about the global level,the macro level. On the micro level, we talked about not waiting for bad things to happen, for tragedy, for something external to happen for us to be grateful. Because when we are grateful,by definition, we don't take something for granted. And we shared the readings and the research on gratitude. The key,when doing it,when doing this exercise- and as I said,I do it every single day. I've done it since 19th of September,1999. Every single day. Religiously. The key to doing it and not taking this exercise for granted is by maintaining freshness through- if you want to do it once a week, it's better to do it once a week mindfully than doing it every day and taking it for granted. And OK check- did that. But ideally,you want to do it every day. Because by doing it every day,that's when you form a habit. That's when you transform your thinking. And if you do it every day,the key is to vary, to think about different aspect every day, to think about different aspects of your family if you write family every day. To write about work one week. To write about home the next week. Maintaining mindfulness, focusing on things you didn't notice before, creating novel distinctions,as Ellen Langer would say. And visualize- so when you are thinking about your girlfriend or boyfriend, and writting your gratitude,visualize them. When you are thinking about the meal that you just had in your dinning hall which was delicious, think about it. Visualize it. Make it as real as possible. That's how children think. And that's why children have this freshness on the day to day- they don't take anything for granted. They see life as a miracle. You know,Emerson once said, "if the stars would shine once in a thousand years, we would all look up and praise the glory of this world. But because they shine every day,we take them for granted." For children,that dosen't exist. And part of the reason why it dosen't exist is that because they don't think automatically,conceptually. They think more perceptually. Or sensually. And they remain connected to the real. And we can do it simply by visualizing. This is a wonderful research done here, William James Hall,8th floor. The key to this,as to any change that we'll talk about- we are going to devote more than two lectures to change today as well as the whole of next week- the key is to do it. To just do it. There are no short cuts. It's not because you've been through a lecture on gratitude and you understand, you really understand what a benefit finder means. That dosen't... That will not in and of itself make you a benefit finder. You need to do it. You need to experience it. And it's only through that,that over time,over time, you'll begin to see more and more of the positive in the world and counter the current schema that most of us have literally been imprisoned by, the fault finder schema. William James in 1890, said that it takes about 21 days to change a habit. It's probably a little bit optimistic. May take a little bit longer. But try for 21 days. See what happens. You know there are some people. I know some of you have already started this after last class. Some people see the benefits immediatly and then you know the benefits may go away. And then they see the benefits again six months later. But try. Try it for at least 21 days. At least a month. Next week is going to be your task as part of your weekly assignment. But start today. Don't wait. No other way to change. Because what you are doing is gradually chipping away the excess stone. That excess stone,that limitation that has been put on us by the schema all around us, by the news that you read this morning,by most conversations, internal conversations that go on as well as the external conversations. And what you are doing, when you are doing this simple exercise, the reason why it works so well- remember people who do it regularly and mindfully are happier, healthier,or more generous and benevolent,more successful. The reason why it works is because what you are doing is chisel by chisel, chipping away the excess stone. In my book,I talked about O'Hart Cummin, my teacher and I've spoken to him... about him a few times in the class. He told me a story once when he was not much older than most of you- he was in his mid-20s,left Israel to... He was living in Europe for a few years and ended up in Holland. And after a while,he found himself homeless, literally living under a tree,cold- it was the winter, penniless- didn't have any money and without any friends. Absolutely miserable. And somehow for some reason,he said OK. He was in this depression for a few weeks and he said, "well,let me try something." Took out a piece of paper and on this piece of paper, simply wrote everything for which he was grateful. So the kind of things he wrote there,as he told me: Beethoven's fifth- he loves music. He wrote his parents,who were in Israel. He wrote vanilla icecream,which until today is his favorite. He thought about his friends back home. All the things- he made a long list of all the things in the world for which he is grateful for. And he credits this experience as the turning point in his life. Why? Because he started to focus on something else. Not just on the impossibilities,on the terrible, but on the possibilities,the wonderful. Do the experi... And by the way,he has this- he's now 55 years old. He has this piece of paper with him,crumbled but still there, in his wallet,reminding him that there is so much, so so many wonderful things in the world. Just think about the kind of life that we are leading. Back only 200 years ago, who could afford to listen to their favorite musicians, or to watch their favorite actors,favorite plays? Who could affor to do it? Only royalty. And even them- they were limited, in terms of which musician was in town or what players were in town. Today,we have literally the tip of our finger, whether it's on our MP3 or our DVD player. Imagine... Just think about the luxury that we are living in. Kings and Queens that not lived that kind of luxury. However,we get used to it. We adapt. And sometimes it's a good thing, because we also adapt to difficult experiences. And the question is how do we learn in a sense to (12:47), meaning to adapt to the painful but not to remain impervious or to become impervious? To become indifferent to the privilege that we have. How do we maintain the gratefulness? And it's by being mindful. By thinking about those wonderful things that we have, whether it's in a friend, whether it's in a movie we want to watch, whether it's in the lunch we are going to have served to us in our house later. The gratitude exercise- one of the reasons why it's so powerful- because what we are doing is we are cocreating a reality. Most of the questions that we ask or are asked of us is "what's wrong?", "what needs to be improved?","what are my weakness areas?" Important questions- not enough. If these are the only questions that we ask as far as we are concerned,good does not exist. And when we ask "what are my grateful for?", even it's just once a day, that in and of itself creates- (A student sneezes)Bless you. That in and of itself creates a new reality. And we begin to see things that we haven't before. So when I do this exercise and I have been doing it for a long time, I notice things today that I wouldn't have noticed, had not been doing this. And I would say, "oh,this is something I am going to write tonight. It's so beautiful." You know,when I go for a drive and see sunday night mountains in Hampshires, I'm going to write this down later. It's... And I wouldn't have noticed it. And as far as I was concerned,these things did not exist, just like the children on the bus did not exist, while you are not asking also the right question. It's important to express gratitude obviously not just to ourselves,but also to others. A lot of research on that too. This was done by- you are reading or you have read- the paper by Seligman talking about expressing gratitude to others, whether it's in the form of a letter or a visit or phone call. And the key of expressing gratitude- this is not just a thank you note. Dear Mom,thank you for being so great.Love,me. That's not just a thank you note. It's sitting down and thinking, "what can I be grateful for,for my mom? What has she done to me? What has she given me throughout these years?" And really thinking about it. Or really thinking a thing, "what this teacher from 3rd grade do for me?" Not just talking to my friends, "I have a wonderful English teacher in 3rd grade." But sitting down and thinking. What am I grateful for? What did she or he do for me that has contributed so much to my life,to who I am today? Or my roommate who always goes out of his or her way to help. I am really grateful. And to think about it. Not just to,you know- at the end of year or of the summer, "oh you are great. You are terrific." Really think about what these people, the important people in your life are doing for you and express it. Don't take that for granted. Don't take for granted that they know how grateful you are. "Yeah,of course mom knows. Of course dad knows that I'm grateful and they are terrific." Don't take it for granted. Express it. Again,write it in a letter or by phone or in person. One of the most effective interventions out there today is expressing gratitude to others especially this one: writting a letter of gratitude and then visiting the person to whom you are writting and reading them the letter. Cheesy? I agree. A little bit embarrassing? Sometimes. You cannot imagine the kind of result that people get when doing just this gratitude visit. But even if you don't visit them, you do feel self-conscious doing it. I do recommend it. But you feel self-conscious, send the letter,make that phone call. And before,just think for a few minutes, "what am I going to say? What am I really grateful for?" Again,whether it's to your parents, whether it's to your friends, whether it's to your 1st grade teacher. Just do it. Whether it's to your coach. The largest largest peak,boost, spike in wellbeing when we are expressing gratitude to others. Quite remarkable if you think about it. And if you think about it further,it is a win-win. Because obviously you get the benefit- this is what the research shows. We feel good when we express it. and the other person feels good too. They benefit a great deal. So you are creating a win-win and an upward spiral,because that person is then more likely to express gratitude to others. The best way to lead it by an example: be the change you want to see in the world,as Ghandi said. So you want people to be more grateful? Express gratitude yourself. They are more likely to then take it on and express gratitude to others. So not only you start an upward spiral between you and that person, but also potentially between that person as well as others. Paying it forward. Paying it forward. The downside of this intervention is while it leads to a spike in well-being, that spike usually goes away after about a month. It varies: it can go away after a week or after three months. But the average it goes away after about a month. The spike to well-being. So the key you want to maintain the spike is to do it regularly. Either once a week. Once a week,two weeks. Once a month. Do it. You can do it one week a gratitude phone call and make it ritual. The next week,a gratitude letter. The week after that,a gratitude visit. Or something like that. Again,variety. Variety really helps here. But do it regularly as a ritual. And when we talk about change next week, we'll talk about the importance of rituals. Because in many ways, that's the only change for real,lasting change. Here's one of the surprising findings that Sonja Lyubomirsky found. What she found is that if we write that letter, we get the spike in wellbeing even if we don't send it. Obviously if we send it and we get feedback, the spike is even higher. But just the act of writting it,of being grateful,being open, that in and of itself contributes to wellbeing. Next week, your response paper is going to be a letter of gratitude, which we will highly recommend you visit the person and read it to them or,at the very least, send it if you are not close to them now physically. But even if you just write it and don't feel comfortable sending it, that in and of itself contributes to our wellbeing. I want to go a little bit more in depth into how we express gratitude and in general, how we deal with painful and positive emotions. Once again,Sonja Lyubomirsky did research, while she invited participants to talk about or to share the worst experiences of their lives and the best experiences of their lives. And what she did was divide them actually to four groups. One group- write about it. Write about the ABC,the affect- the emotion,the behavior- what you did then,and the cognition- what you thought then. Three times on three consecutive days for 15 minutes. First group just wrote about it. The second group talked about it to a tape recorder about the same best experiences and another group, worst experiences. Third group,just think about it- ruminate for 15 minutes also on three consecutive days. What she looked at was physical and mental health. She looked at how healthy they were. She looked at their physical... how they perceived themselves as healthy or not, how many symptoms they actually had. And she looked at their mood- how happy they were. Before the experiment and four weeks later, after that three days,15 minutes each day intervention. There was also a fourth group,which was a control group. Here is what she found. So basically you have three or four by two, writting,talking and thinking. Study one: worst experiences. Study two: best experiences. Those who wrote- let me just explicate this. Those who wrote about the worst experiences actually felt better and were physically healthier, compared to the control group four weeks later. Those who talked about it to a take recorder- remember? about what they felt,about what they've been through, about what they thought at the time while they are thinking now. 15 minutes,three days. Actually,felt better after talking about it. Those who thought about it, who ruminated about it,without talking, without writting about it,actually felt worse and were physically less healthier a month later. The second study, where they wrote about their happiest experiences, we see the opposite trend. In other words, those who wrote about it on what they experience, how they experience it,what they learn from it on three days, for 15 minutes each time, actually felt worse physically as well as mentally after a month. Those who talked about it also about the ABC- the affect,the behavior,the cognition, also felt better and were less healthy a month later. Well those who just thought about it, ruminated about their positive experiences, imagined it on three consecutive days,15 minutes each day, actually felt better and were healthier a month later, four weeks later. So she ran the third study to understand- this was a surprising result,was not what she expected. So she ran the third study to understand the mechanism- what is going on here. Why is it that when we write and talk about negative experiences, it makes us feel better and healthier? Strengthen our immune system? Whereas when we just think about it,ruminate it, what's going on here? Whereas the exact opposite is the case with positive emotions. And what she found was there was a distinction between analyzing and replaying. When we analyze an experience, when we make sense of it,it helps. It actually helps. Painful experiences and negative experiences, which is why therapy helps. And what helps in therapy more than anything is less of technique, less the years of study that the therapists had, less the experience that the therapists had. These things matter. But not that much. What matters most is are they empathic. In other words,are they good listeners? so when we feel like we can talk and analyze about painful emotion, we feel better. We are physically healthier. When we simply sit down and ruminate about painful emotions without making sense of it, we get very often into a downward spiral. We narrow and constrict. We feel more sad. We narrow and constrict even more. Remember the Barbara Fredrickson's studies? And so on and so on. In contrast,we are not sure why. when we analyze a positive experience,really analyze it- try to understand why it happened and so on. So we do it for three consecutive days. It actually dosen't help. We don't understand why. But maybe it's because it takes all the fun spontaneity from the experience. However when we just ruminate about the positive experience- just think about it,then it contributes to our well-being. The gratitude exercise is about replaying the experience. It's exactly that. In other words, it's thinking about our happiest experiences of the day, which leads ultimately to positive outcome. So what is it saying aobut the permission to be human? How is it different? Because the permission to be human is also very much related to being happier and healthier in the long term. Well here's the difference: with the permission to be human, we give ourselves the permission to experience the emotions for as long as necessary. If we just lost someone,it would be much longer than if we just didn't perform so well in the test. But we give ourselves the permission to experience the experience. And then we ask ourselves, "so what would be the most effective way to act now?" And one fo the most effective way to act would be to share that experience. One fo the most effective way to act would be to just write in our journal. Daily active acceptance. Not just ruminating and staying there with this painful emotion. Now one of the things I thought about it also in the context of my grandmother's experience is why is it that- we'll talk about PTSD in a few minutes- why is it that so many people in the United States coming back from Vietnam 30% of Vietnam vets experience post traumatic stress disorder. It affected their entire lives. Whereas people who have been through the holocaust, no less terrible experiences,very often,much worse experiences, people who have been through the holocaust,percentage wise- there are far less people who have PTSD- post traumatic stress disorder. Why this difference? I mean,you know in Israel,50% of the older population- when I was born,50% of the population were holocaust survivers. I didn't see much post traumatic stress disorder there. Whereas again,30% of Vietnam vets have PTSD. Now the jury is still out to see how many of the second Iraq war will come back with PTSD, but the number is going to be staggering too. Why? What's the difference? And I think this explains the difference. You see,Vietnam is not a popular war. Many of the vets who came back to their home, to their country didn't talk about it openly. They kept it inside them. And what they did was they were- right here- thinking about some of the worst experiences, replaying it in their minds over and over and over again. And the situation just worse and worse and worse. In contrast,people coming from, again no less terrible experiences in the holocaust. They came back to their village. They came back to their country. They came to Israel and what did they do there? They talked about it. They talked about their experiences- most of them,not all- most of them talked about their experiences with their friends, with their family constantly talked about it. They were here. And over time, it helped them move on and continue. So the best advice from this study,you know that, as I told you, I am not going to teach you much new in this course. Just want to remind you how helpful it is to have support group. How helpful it is to share with friends,with family, with a therapist,with a journal,in writting- we'll talk about journalling next week- you know the most effective interventions both for positive as well as negative experiences- only we are writting in different way: one we analyze; the other,we simply replay. Being grateful shouldn't wait for Thanksgiving. We shouldn't wait just once a year,that November date, when we express gratitude, when we go around the table and say what we are grateful for. It should be a habit. A,because it works,it helps. And B,because it's moral. This gets to a point that I'll repeat throughout the course, where the moral is also the practical. The practical,in most cases,is also the moral. They go hand in hand. David Steindl-Rast, the book that I mentioned last time: "We live in a 'given" world. What brings fulfillment is gratefulness, the simple response of our heart to this given life in all its fullness.” Again,just like a child. The poet,Galway Kinnel: "To live and die in gratefulness,if in no other virtue." Cicero: "Gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues, but the parent of all others". Why is it parent of all others? I thought about this sentence a lot which I love,but why? Because if you think about it,if we are not grateful, then we take things for granted. If we are not grateful for the good things in our lives, things are taken for granted. And then we are blind to them. Then as far as we are concerned,they do not exist. Now what makes virtue virtuous? It's the good. And if there is no good in our world, then that takes away the virtue from being virtuous. That is why I think... what Cicero was talking about when he meant "it is the parent of all virtues". Another concernment benefit finder is the Radcliff student, or was a Radcliff student,Helen Keller. Helen Keller,quite literally, open our eyes and get us appreciate what is all around us. She tells us a story in her wonderful autobiography about a friend who came to visit her once in Cambridge. There were many more woods at the time. And the friend walked around the woods and when her friend came back,Helen Keller asked her, "so what did you see? What did you note?", to which her friend responded,"well,nothing in particular." And Helen Keller responds to that "nothing in particular" in her autobiography. Let me read. “I wondered how it was possible to walk for an hour through the woods and see nothing of note. I who cannot see find hundreds of things: the delicate symmetry of a leaf, the smooth skin of a silver birch, the rough,shaggy bark of a pine. I who am blind can give one hint to those who see: use your eyes as if tomorrow you will have been stricken blind. Hear the music of voices,the songs of a bird, the mighty strains of an orchestra as if you would be stricken deaf tomorrow. Touch each object as if tomorrow your tactile sense would fail. Smell the perfume of flowers,taste with relish each morsel, as if tomorrow you could never taste or smell again. Make the most of every sense. Glory in all the facets and pleasures and beauty which the world reveals to you." Take a minute twice a day to focus on what is going on around you Take a minute when... on your way to class to look at the beautiful grass, the beautiful trees,the beautiful snow. Take a minute in the evening to reflect and think about the day you had, and to write down the things for which you are grateful. Today over lunch, just by a little bit slower than you do normally and taste, experience the taste. Because it is a privilege to have the food that we have. It is a privilege to have the friends that we have. the family that we have. And we shouldn't take that privilege for granted. Because what we don't appreciate unfortunately depreciates. We don't need to wait for a threat,for a tragedy, for us to appreciate what's all around us and within us. What reminds me constantly,my surrounding, the reminder that I have always in front of my eyes, is a picture of my family and particularly, of my grandmother in the middle. And here's my grandfather who saw her coming in stooped, ill and took her into his arms. I have this picture in my office. Looked at it all the time to remind me. I would have told you the story now which comes at the end of the lecture. But I know when I tell the story,it drains me so much. I don't think I would be able to go on. So I told you at the end of the lecture last time. But this is my reminder. This is what primes me,creating a positive environment- primes me and reminds me to be a benefit finder. So here is what I want to do now. What I want to do now is take a time in. The first time in of the semester,not the last one. Time in when you have a chance to look inside yourself, to reflect. You'll have opportunity in sections as well. I want to do it now in this room. I want you to take just a couple of minutes to think about and write down mindfully the things for which you are grateful. The wonderful things in your life. So take two minutes to do it. (Time in) Ok. It would be great if you continue this later on as well. But I want to do something else now. Something slightly embarrassing. My apologies in advance. But what I'd like you to do now is share with the person next to you some... You don't need to share everything. And you can have some beeps in middle if you want to have censorship. That's fine. But just take couple of minutes to share with one another, with the person next to you or if there are three of you, just share quickly. I am just going to give you two minutes for that. The things for which you are grateful. You can elaborate on one thing or you can read the list. (Students talking) Take 30 secondes more. 30 secondes more to finish up. OK. OK. You... You can continue later. I recommend you continue later. Very simple intervention that goes a long way. If we just learn to focus on the positive, we co-create the more positive reality. What I want to do now before moving on to the next lecture on change. I want to say a few words about the final project. Remember the idea of the final project is basically a presentation anywhere between 20 to 30 minutes that you will create. This is both for the extention school as well as for the college students. 20-30 minute presentation that you will hand in as, or about any topic within positive psychology. And by the way, that could also be positive psychological interventions for depression or anxiety. It could be about gratitude. It could be the mind body connection. It could be about spirituality and religion. It could be about self-esteem. What I would urge you to do is find the most personally meaningful topic that you want to research. Remember what is the most personal is also most general. So if you are very much interested,passionate in spirituality, do that. If you really want to understand more and be able to apply to your life more, positive psychological interventions for,I don't know, public speaking anxiety or whatever it is,do it on that. The more personal you get in that,in that paper, the more you'll get out of it. You'll hand it in as a written text. 20 to 30 minutes is about 10 to 15 pages of texts and this is what you'll ultimately hand in. You'll give both a written text as well as slides. We are not going to grade for how beautiful and how amazing your powerpoints... But we do want you to hand in slides that will be the outline for your talk. Now the only part of this that will be actually graded is what you hand in at the end,meaning the text of your lecture. However,in addition to that, the powerpoint will be graded pass/fail, meaning you have to do it. but you are not going to be graded for it, is to give the presentation to other people from your section. Those of you in extention school will give to other people in your community. The idea here is paying it forward. Getting an idea and doing it. That's how I actually started my speaking career. I had a topic that I was personally interested and I gave it to the squash team. I talked about it. Just to people close to me. And I had a topic and then that evolved over time. So we want you,for those of you who haven't had the experience is to first of all synthesize material in the topic that you care about, that you think will make a difference in your life; and second to be able to pay it forward. It has to have reference to research. This is not just a personal story or an autobiography. It has to have reference to research. In addition to, of course stories that you think capture the point. Probabaly the most effective way of communicating an idea is through stories. You know,you'll probably not remember ten years from now, the research on self-efficacy. But you are much more likely to remember the story of Roger Bannister. So people remember stories. They connect to stories. But at the same time,this is an academic paper. We want to brige the Ivory tower and the Main Street. So have references to research. And these are the things that would be optionally: you can have film clips- if you have a film clip in it, it's a 10 minute film clip, it dosen't count as part of the 10 to 30 minutes. Especially if you have 20 minute film clip unless you are giving a lecture,which is fine. And include exercise. So if this is a workshop,what exercise would you do? Would you have, you know participants express gratitude to one another? Would you have them writting a journal? Would you have them go out and exercise physically later? So include exercises as well. Here are the dates. So this is em... These are your deadlines, or rather,your lifelines in this project. March 20th,just before spring break, all you need to do is let your TF know your topic. One word,one sentence- it's gratitude. It's spirituality. It's mind-body. Specifically physical exercise. Just let them know. Now you may change that a week later or two weeks later. But we just want you to start honing and thinking about what your likely topic will be. So that's March 20. April 7- give you some time after spring break, so you don't have to work on it over spring break, though we hope you'll at least think about it and read some stuff over spring break. April 7: one page outline. A draft of your topic. Again,this is not graded. This is just for you,meaning pass/fail. So you have to hand it in. Just for you. Then you can talk to your teaching fellow about it. By May 3, give the presentation to at least three or four classmates. If you are in extention school,give it to other people. And ask them for feedback. And you'll get feedback- ideally,written feedback. We'll talk to you about the process later on when the time comes. Again,this is not graded. It's for you. It's for you as well as for the participants, because you are paying it forward. It can be a rough draft. It is a rough draft. And I'll give you feedback and say, "you know,what I thought was missing is maybe an extra story or I felt like you were not grouded enough in research." Or,you know,"introduce a little bit more energy." Or whatever it is. Get feedback from them to help you. And then the week later,the final project will be due. Any questions about this? If you have a question, probbably others have the same questions. So any questions about the final project? Ok. Think about it. Yes. Question. No,it's not in section. You will actually... Ok. So the question is where do you make the presentation. You'll have to get together with your group, the other three or four,probably be three. And give each other the presentation. If you want to do it with powerpoints and the whole thing,that's perfectly fine. If you just want to read it or speak it, that's perfectly fine too. Your choice is whatever you think would be most helpful to you. Again,this project is for you. It's for you and for others hopefully who will benefit from hearing what you have to say. Students who have done it- we've already done it for the last two years. The first year I taught it- we just had a regular paper. And the students enjoy this process so much more and get so much more out of it and it stays with them. Because it's something you can take,again, pay forward also when you are done here. Other questions? Yes. Dr. Tal Ben-Shahar: Yes. Good question. So are you supposed to narrow down a topic as opposed to being very general life spirituality? Up to you. Up to you. You can give an overview and then, at the end of your presentation,say,you know, these are some of the interesting studies, but if you want more information,you know, you can look there. Or you can do something very particular. So the benefit of church going. Or the benefit of aerobic exercise. It can be very specific or much more... Or the benefit,psychological benefit of Arabic exercise. So it can be very specific or very general. Up to you. Whatever you think would be more interesting to you. And what often happens when we found this is that once you get into the literature,you are going through info- you'll read a lot of studies there. That's when you understand, "OK,I have so much material on just this specific point I am going to focus here." Or I really want an overview of this whole topic. And then in later presentations, or I'll create a whole class just based on this topic later on. Or website. There are actually many students who created websites based on their projects. There was another hand up there. Or were you just saying hi? Hi. Yes. They can't hear you. For extention students all over the world, you are going to pick two or three people anywhere, family,friends, whoever it is but people who will be "beautiful enemies" to you, who will give you real feedback. Because they care about you. Good. Alright. No one else? Alright,if you have further questions, ask your TF or ask me. (A student sneezes.) Bless you. Change. In many ways, we've been talking about change the whole class. This class is about change,as I said on the first class, I wouldn't be teaching it if I didn't think people could change. And when I talk change,I am talking about different levels. Whether the change in terms of introducing a habit: I want to start exercising for three times a week. Why? Because as you'll see from a few weeks from now, exercising three times a week has the same effect as some of our most powerful psychiatric drugs. Or let's say habit you want to introduce is you know, I want to introduce spirituality to my life. Or change could be "I want to be happier". I want to experience less anxiety. General anxiety or specific anxiety,before tests. Whatever the change you want to introduce to in your life, there are certain patterns,certain approaches that work, certain approaches that don't work. What we are going to do next two classes, two and a half classes is differentiate what works and what dosen't so that you can apply it to your life. So first of all,we've talked a lot about change. Let's recap some of the things that we discussed. First of all,on the second class we already mentioned this, that change is hard. And there are a lot of studies to show how hard change is. The twin research. Remember the conclusion. Try and change your happiness is as difficult and futile as trying to change your height. Now even though they went back on their word and they said "well it's not really impossible and futile", still what they did show in their studies is that it is very hard The twin studies. Happiness is a stochastic phenomenon. Then Daniel Gilbert's work on affective forecasting. Yeah we experience it an up after we get tenure or after we get into Harvard,and we experience a down when we are rejected by whatever it is. But then very quickly we go back up to our base level of wellbeing. And most of our life looks like this around this straight base level. It's very difficult to get an upward trajectory. It's possible through coping for example,but it's difficult. The Cambridge-Somerville study- 5 year intervention that ultimately led to negative change, whether there's more alcoholism among the people who did go through that intervention with bright in the best. Psychologists,psychiatrists,social workers,programs. So we know change is hard, whether it's on the individual level or on the society level. However,we also know the change is possible. We know that many of the people who argue that change is not possible are making the error of the average, looking at the average score as opposed to outlayers, as opposed to people who have introduced change. And when we study change,it's the exception that proves the rule So if change is possible and some people have been able to change whether it's through therapy,whether it's by reading a book, whether it's being a part of the class, whether it's through conversation- sometimes it's a single sentence that makes a difference to their entire life, they are the exceptions. But the questions are no longer whether or not change is possible. The question is "how is change possible". And this is the question we are going to address in much greater depth on a higher level of the spiral in these lectures. What does change look like? Let's go micro here. Let's go to the brain level. How does change actually look like? What happens in our brain when change occurs? Until 1998, neuro scientists thought that the brain was essentially fixed. We are born with certain neurones,certain pathways. The brain doesn't grow,dosen't change pass the age of,say three Maybe first a few experiences the brain still changes and evolves But after the age of three,no change. And this theory which was held until 1998- I mean that's not so long ago,this theory gave credence, and actually proved positive for "happiness is a stochastic phenomenon". You are born with certain genes. You are born with certain inclinations with certain neurone pathways. You have a few experiences that really affect you a great deal, as Freud argued. And then the rest of your life, you are going to just fluctuate around that same level. No change. That was until 1998. In 1998, scientists started to notice that the brain actually does change. And they came up with the concept of neuroplasticity. Neuroplasticity are nuerones are plastic- they change. Not only that,not only do the pathways change in the brain- and we'll look at it in a minute, but also they've come up with another concept, which is neurogenesis. Neurones develop, are created throughout our lives until the day we die potentially So it's not the fact that we are born with certain number of neurones and it's downhill from there, as conventional wisdom had us to believe- as many people still believe today. No,neurones are developed and grow,emerge throughout our lives. The brain,it turns out,in many ways is like muscle: use it and you don't lose it. Use it and you generate, you build the muscle up. And the question is how do we use it so that it becomes an assistant in a way, help toward becoming happier. So let's look at what the brain actually look like. What it looks like is that there are millions of channels inside, neural pathways,connections between different neurones in brain that look something like this. As you can see,some are very thin,are relatively new. some are much thicker,much more established. And the way it works in many ways is like in nature. You have large rivers,large channels. And you have tiny rivers and tiny channels. And what happens is that every time a connection is made between neurones- in other words, your thought pattern follows a certain path. That path grows. Just like a river- every time the water passes there, it gets this much,this much wider. And when there is no water there, there is no work being done in the neurone, metaphorically speaking,it shrinks a little bit. So neural pathways grow with use and they shrink when there is no use. If it's something new,a new neural pathway that was just created because remember- there's neuroplasticity. Neural pathways are created constantly. There is neurogenesis. New neutrones are created constantly. Initially it's very thin. Let's say for example,I study French. And I learn a new word. A new connection is made in my brain. Now if I hear the word once and never again, the neural pathway will disintegrate,will disappear. However, if I continue hearing that word over and over and over again, after all it will become thicker and thicker. Ok this is a way over simplification of the real process. But it will become thicker. And then I'll remember it for the rest of my life. It will be established like a river that is established, as opposed to a tiny stream and trickle that can disappear in a day. And here is the key aspect for understanding how we can change our thought, how we can change our wellbeing ultimately. The neural pathways are self-reinforcing,just like rivers are. Think about it: when it rains,when there is a down pour, the water gravitates toward the existing river, toward the channels,toward the drains that we have built. It's much less likely to create a new river or a new stream with there's nothing before. So the experience is much likely to gravitate to already established neural pathways and strengthen it further, as opposed to create new neural pathways, which is why if we want to remember something, it's very good to make connections to other things, to existing neural pathways,to existing memories. Let me explain this again, because this is important to understand. Because understanding this can actually... this is something that Carol Dweck,professor at Stanford showed and understanding this neuroplasiticity, understanding how we actually can change can make us more likely to succeed in one of the ways of success- to actually become happier. So it's important to understand. And established neural pathway attracts more action and it attracts more action and gets thicker. Something that's not established, a tiny little stream is more likely to be just wiped away. As it grows more,it's more likely to stay, not just stay,grow even more. It is self-reinforcing. And this is what habits are. When something is reinforced over and over again, it becomes a habit. For example,you play tennis and you hit the forehand over and over and over again. Initially you have to think about it. You have to concentrate. You have to,you know,maybe cock your wrist a little bit, maybe understand exactly where you stop the racket, but after a while, after doing it hunderds of, thousands of times you don't need to think about it anymore. It's already grooved. And the word that I used is grooved, specifically because you essentially created a new channel. And whenever a ball comes toward you, automatically you don't even need to think about it. It gravitates. Your mind gravitates toward that particular path or paths, many paths that tell you "lift it up and hit". It's automatic. Same with music. And what it has shown is people who practice music regularly or practice a sport regularly, their brain actually changes its shape. More neural pathways are created around these areas that mean "let me play a C now" or "let me move my fingers in this way" based on somthing that I see on the page. Certain neural pathways are created, and the brain actually becomes thicker in these areas. Or more experience flow in: the more we do it,the more they flow Until it becomes grooved and I don't need to think about how to play C-. It's automatic. They did a research. This was the first research,one of the first research projects where they found the brain actually changes. They took taxi drivers or freshly minted taxi drivers from London And what they had to do,to become,to get their certificate, their approval,they had to study the map of London. Now the map of London is much more complicated than study the map of New York. Those of you who have been to London. But they studied and they spent a lot of time. What they found was the brain, part of their visual cortex actually changed from before they started to study the maps of London to after. Because they were working that part of the brain. They had experiences. And these experiences created grooves inside their brain, so when someone said "Oxford Circus",immediately they knew what street they need to take to Oxford Circus. Their brain actually became bigger. It changed their neuroplasiticity. And that's wonderful news. It's really wonderful news. Because it means we have control. And we can introduce change. Now in our brain,there are both healthy and unhealthy pathways. So for example, some of the negative channels may be one of the constant worrier- someone who worries a lot. That every time something happens, immediately they gravitate to "ok so what does that mean for the future?" Or "what does that mean now for my prospects?" "What does it mean for today?" Constantly worrying about things. Even good things very often. They immediately interpret it as something to be worry about. Or fault finding. That's pathways in the brain where I look for- again they are self-reinforcing- I begin to look for in my world things that go wrong. Remember my personal experience where I got the fellowship as a senior here. And I got the fellowship and immediately my brain gravitated toward "Ok but why didn't I get the other one?" I had so many things to be grateful for. But it's the fault finder immediately the neural pathway, the river this experience fell into was the largest one. And the largest one for me at that time was being a fault finder. Then there are positive channels as well. What are the positive channels? Benefit finder. A person who is able to find benefit even in the hard circumstances. May not say that the things happen for the best, but something,but people made the best of things happen. The optimist. Again,much larger,much wider channels for optimism. And the experiences gravitate toward there. Today we know much more how the brain works. And where these channels exist? so let me give you an example of the one of the things we know. One of the things that we know is that people who have more action on the left side of the prefrontal cortex, compared to the right side of the prefrontal cortex, are general happier. More susceptible to positive emotions, more resilient in phase of painful emotions. More activation here- prefrontal cortex, compared to the right side of the prefrontal cortex. People who have more activation on the right side compard to the left of f the prefrontal cortex are generally more depressed. Now we know that today because we have FMRI, because we have EEG. We can see how much the brain works on each side. But we knew that already hundreds of years ago. We knew that this side is associated with positive emotions, and more activation on this side of the front, is associated with painful emotions. How? Because when people,for example were in an accident, and the accident happened to them and the left side of the prefrontal cortex was damaged, very often they became more depressed. Because they had more activation on the right side as a result. In comparison, people who had an accident on the right side on the other hand, on the right side,very often,became happier. Now I don't recommen this as an intervention. Don't try it at home without your parents or with your parents. However,if you walk in the street,and you happen to fall, it's always better to fall this way. So just keep that in mind. Important thing to keep in mind then is that very often the same trigger causes very different reactions. Again the world is not just the external world. It's also the internal world. Remember to the same mind,as Emerson said, the same world can be... or to the different minds, the same world can be a heaven or a hell. Depends on what that experience gravitates toward. Over the years,I've become a  much more, much more of a benefit finder through the exercise, through thinking about it,by writting,keeping a journal, by physically exercising,I become much more of a benefit finder. I've done a lot of work in that. One of the great fortunes in my life is that I married a consummate benefit finder. Tommy,my wife doesn't have to work that hard at it. So for example,we would come back from a party. And there was someone at the party who couldn't stop talking. Have you encountered a person... Well,couldn't stop talking. And I just about to tell Tommy you know, this person just couldn't shut his or her mouth. And what would she say before I open my mouth? She said, "see how wonderful that person was and he or she is so passionate about what they do?" So for me,it was talkative. For her,it was passion. Again,automatically going there. There is a genetic set point- and we'll talk about the genes- that lead some people to be much more benefit finders than others But at the same time,we can work on it. We can work on it,pathway by pathway. And what we are doing there is quite literally transforming the brain We'll talk about during the week on mindfulness meditation that meditation- for instance regular yoga- actually makes our.. changes the pathwaya in our brain, makes it more active on the left side compared to the right side. Makes it more susceptible to positive emotions, more resilient to the phase of painful emotions. We can change the brain. Neuroplasiticity and neurogenesis. We are going to talk about two types of change in this next week. The first type of change is the gradual approach. This is the change of gradually chipping away excess stone. This is the change that we see in nature with the water sweeping away the stone, making it thinner over time,making it smoother. The gradual change. This is the change we mostly see in the world It's the healthy change. There is no quick fix. It takes time. However,the change process can be as enjoyable as the outcome. Think about how to learn to play musical instrument. It takes time. It's by the way the same process, because we are creating new neural pathways in our brain, when we are learning musical instrument. We can enjoy the process that ten years that it takes us to get to play in a concert in Leverett JCR. We can enjoy the process of getting there before we are there. So the change process in and of itself can also be fun. We can enjoy the journey as well as the destination. It takes time. A lot of time. Then there is also the acute approach to change. You know if the metaphore for the gradual change was the water breaking down stone, the metaphore for acute approach is taking a sledgehammer and breaking the water,breaking the stone. You know what Moses did. The acute change. Takes... Dosen't take much time. It happens immediately. But the important thing to keep in mind, with the acute change is it's not a quick fix. The acute change, very often,takes a lot of preparation,metaphorically speaking- You need a lot of strength to pick up the hammer and to have the power to put it down. So it takes time. Both take time. And that's important to keep in mind. Why? Martin Seligman: “The belief that we can rely on shortcuts to gratification and bypass the exercise of personal strengths and virtues is folly. It leads to legions of humanity who are depressed in the middle of great wealth and are starving to death spiritually." This is one of the main reasons for the unhappiness in the world today. I alluded to it but I want to elaborate it a little bit more before we end. How many here have read,by the way, the Seven Habits of Highly Effective People,Stephen Covey. Ok. Quite a few. It's a wonderful book. One of the best,if not the best self-help books out there. Stephen Covey at the beginning of the book talks about the research that he did for his PHD. And what he did was look at the success literature of the last 200 years. And what he found was that there was a real cut-off point in 1930 Until 1930,19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, self-help was about character change. It was about changing who you are from inside. It was about struggling in hard work and failing and going, getting up again. Going through hardships. And changing step by step,slowly,gradually. 1930- radical change. From character change,it became quick fix. Thinking grow rich. How to win friends in influent people. Do it now. The secret- quick change,immediate change,easy change. And from the 1930s, what we see is a decline in people's level of well being. Much more depression. Much more anxiety. And one of the reasons is that. That people hope and believe that they can find quick fix. There is no quick fix. It takes time. It takes time to change. However,the change process can be as enjoyable, as fun,as exciting as ultimately achieving the change. And next week we'll talk about that wonderful process. Have a good weekend. 



 Chapter 9: 如何去改变


Hi,good morning! So today's lecture is about change. And things are going to change today. Our relationship is going to change today.So stay tuned. Last time, last time we ended by talking about the different kinds of change The first approach—the gradual approach, like water wearing down stone, chipping away gradually slowly taking our time. The second approach—the acute change, the sledge hammer breaking stone creating a new pathway, a new channel. The important thing to keep in mind with both forms of changes, with all form of change, lasting change that is,which is what we are about. Not just the spike and the return to base level. The thing to keep in mind about change is that neither is quick-fix. Even when we pick up that sledge hammer, even when we pick it up, we need to do a lot of work before the preparation. So for example,gradual change, slow change would be doing the gratitude exercise everyday, slowly becoming more and more of a benefit finder, gradually looking more at the positive, creating a new neural pathway neuron by neuron. Remember neuroplasticity and neurogenesis— two very important concepts because just by knowing by understanding that our brain changes that in and of itself makes us more likely to change. And this is work done by Carol Dweck, whom I'll discuss in future courses when we discuss perfectionism And then the sledge hammer example is like the Eureka experience, the great insight that doesn't come in a vacuum. It comes after a lot of hard work after a lot of preparation. You know the 99% of perspiration that leads to that inspiration. So no quick-fix.And the believe in quick-fix, the expectation of the quick-fix that is one of the reasons why levels of the depression are so high today, because people are frustrated.They are disappointed. They think there's something wrong with them when they don't succeed in the quick-fix. But they have just,I just write in the book that it's possible. If I do these five things,I'd be happy for the rest of my life. And I do these five things.And I'm not happier. And I begin to question myself. No quick-fix.It takes time. No five easy steps to happiness. Before we go to the change process, there are a few things we need to understand. The first thing to understand is this. Do I,do you really want to change? Do I really want to improve certain things in my personality… things that… or character,or behavior,things that I don't like. And it's not a trivial question. It is not a rhetorical question because very often on the conscious level we maybe saying yes, but on the subconscious level something is stopping us. Let me show you an example. So this is the study done by Langer and, and Thompson back in the 80s. And here is what they did. They brought students in or participants in. And they asked them whether they wanted to get rid of certain characteristics, like rigidity,or being gullible,or grimness. And they asked them whether they wanted to get rid of these characteristics and whether they succeeded in becoming better in this area. Were you able to introduce change, so were you able to actually become less rigid, if this was important for you to change, or less gullible,or less grim? So this is the first two questions that they asked. Did you want to improve it? Did you wanna change this? The second question – were you successful? And then after they answered these questions, there was the second part of the study where they asked them to evaluate the positive, the,the following positive characteristics. Consistency,is it important to you? Is it important to you to be trustworthy? And how important it is for you to be and to be perceived as a serious person? And here is the interesting finding of this research. Those individuals who rated the positive traits, the ones in yellow,who rated them high, as personally important to them were less likely to change the negatives. Do you understand implications of the study? So what is saying is that… Let's say I do wanna get rid of rigidity. I don't like being rigid. However at the same time consistency is a very important value to me. I'm less likely to change my rigidity because they are associated in my mind. And yeah,I don't want to be rigid. But at the same time subconscious talking here. I want to be consistent. Don't let go of this rigidity because I couple them, I associate them together. Not wanting to get rid of one because I don't want the baby out with the bath water. And to me they are linked. The same with gullibility and trustworthiness. We can say that the other side of gullibility someone who's trustworthy. Now going to the extreme.I become gullible. However I don't get rid of my gullibility because I don't want to also get rid of my trustworthiness. Same with grim.I may be grim but that's also subconsciously a sign of my seriousness. You know for years,literally years, when I've been thinking and writing and analyzing the notion of perfectionism, I couldn't understand why it didn't get better, for very long time. Because I knew perfectionism was hurting me, I read the research,I look through personal experiences. I knew it was hurting me in terms of my well-being for sure, but also in the long term in terms of my success.And yet I couldn't get rid of perfectionism until I read the study. And I asked myself, ‘OK,so what is the counterpart to perfectionism? What's tied in my mind? What goes hand in hand for me with perfectionism?’ What goes hand in hand is drive and ambition. And if I had to define myself,this is one of the first things that I would define myself as I'm driven and I'm ambitious. And because I didn't want to lose these characteristics, my subconscious didn't let me, stopped me from getting rid of the perfectionism, perfectionism which I define as a debilitating fear of failure, failure that prevents us… we'll have a whole week on perfectionism. So we'll get more in depth if you'll understand what it means. And it was only once I understood that for me these two things go hand in hand, I was able to unpack them,to distinguish them. I said I want to keep one not the other. Or for example,worry and anxiety. Look I've mentioned these many times before, next time I'll talk to you about the process that I underwent to overcome anxiety. Part of me since the time I can't remember myself. Being anxious whether it's before matches in squash, whether it's before exams, whether it's before speaking up in section when I was an undergrad. And I wanted to stop that.I didn't want that. However,I didn't let go of worry and anxiety because I also sort with responsibility. Well if I'm anxious,it can mean I'm responsible. So I prepare for class much more as opposed to just let go and become a slacker. So I associated a positive trait which is responsibility. And remember Brandon? No one is coming? Very important trait,responsibility. But that prevented me from letting go. Subconscious level, not conscious of the worry and anxiety that I often experienced. Guilt. Again there is good guilt,there is bad guilt You know,it is. Well,I don't want to get rid of guilt because what that means I'm not being empathic and sensitive toward other people. Very often we connect the two..They go hand in hand. Another couple is the notion of simplifying. This is something very personal to me. I wanted to do less because I knew that taking on too many activities was actually hurting me was hurting my productivity,creativity,well-being. I couldn't simplify. Why? Because I associate it in my mind with losing my edge. So I didn't let go. Or fault-finding,we talked about this a week ago. Why do people not let go of  fault-finding? Why do they remain pessimistic? Because they connect it with the sense of realism. I don't wanna stop being realisic. I don't wanna be one of those detached Pollyannas. And therefore I don't let go of my fault-finding. Happiness. One of the most significant barrier to people's happiness is that they associate happiness with slacking off, because the dominant paradigm, the dominant mantra in our culture today is ‘no pain,no gain.' If I'm happy now,I ignore experiencing pain. It means I'm letting go. It means I'm not gonna be successful. It means I'm gonna lose my edge. It means I'm gonna lose my drive and ambition. So our subconscious prefers to keep,keep us unhappy, so that we don't lose the other things that we value highly, things such as ambition,things such as having an edge, things such as our hard work. Now of course when we look at them we know that they don't necessarily have to go hand in hand. On the contrary,for example,happiness, we know from the broaden and build theory,the positive emotions are actually associated with higher levels of success. Whereas I'll talk about after spring break, when we talk about perfectionism. We know from research, you'll be able to connect it also in the person. Many of you will be able to connect it in the personal level. We know that letting go of this fear of failure and coping, putting ourselves on the line more, learning from failures looking at it as a,as a stepping stone that contributes to our success in the long term. It doesn't need to take away from our drive and ambition on the contrary. And the key if we wanna overcome this fear of failure or the worry/anxiety,or the guilt,or the slack of happiness, it's very often,not always,very often about understanding, or getting a better understanding of these characteristics. For example, understanding that I want to let go of my fear of failure, the debilitating fear of failure,not just fear of failure because every one is afraid of failure to some extent. But to let go of the debilitating fear of failure and yet maintain my drive/ambition. So more in nuance understanding that you need to go hand in hand. Or,I can't,you know, I never used to be able to say no to people. You know,such a short word,such an easy word, so difficult at times to say. Why? Because I see myself and now I want other people to see me as empathic as sensitive as under..as a nice guy. And then I unpack the two. And it really doesn't have to hand in hand. I can say no to people very sensitively because very often when I say yes to others, I'm saying no to myself,and in the long term, very often to the relationship. So now I had a better more nuance understanding of when I can say no and when I don't want to say no while maintaining my sensitivity and my empathy without experiencing the same levels of guilt that I experienced before whenever I said no. And the same you can do for everyone of these, of these characteristics. So think about what if you wanted to change for a very long time and weren't successful in. Was it perfectionism? Was it,you know this very serious grimness? And you wanted to be more playful? Well maybe you didn't want to get rid of it because you were afraid of losing you seriousness. And you don't need do. The baby can stay,the bath water can go if we have a more nuance understanding of what it is we want to change. In section next week,you are going to do an exercise with your teaching fellows called sentence completion. In that exercise,this is exactly what you are going to do. You're going to identify.. It's,,,it's an exercise devised by Nathaniel Branden. You're going to do an exercise that will help you identify what you wanna get rid of and what you wanna keep. Very often,that,just that switch that you make in your mind, subconscious as well as conscious mind can open the flood waters,the gates to a new channel, new pathway in our brain,real lasting change. We're gonna discuss three distinct.. the interconnected pathways to change— the ABCs of psychology which we have mentioned before. The ABCs,the A is the affect,the emotion. The B is the behavior,the action. And C is the cognition,the thought. And what we gonna do is we're going to talk about each one of the three. And for each one we're going to talk about the gradual change approach and the acute change approach. So in a sense we're building a three by two. Affect,behavior,cognition times gradual and the acute. And we're going to talk about six different approaches to change. These six approaches to change are interconnected. It's important to connect them.And ideally we want all three. Why? Quote it up,we used it a few times and we'll use it again, John Dryden,British poet, “we first make our habit and then our habits make us.” In order to change habit,in order to bring about lasting change, we need to have as much of a solid approach as much..um.. force in the intervention. It's not just enough to focus on the emotions. It's not just enough to focus on action. It's not enough just to focus on our thinking. We want to focus on the three. The A,the B and the C. It's ..Think about it. It's like a habit can be looked as a flood. There's flood in our mind of certain neurons firing in certain neuron pathway. And what we want to do is to overcome this flood. And to overcome this flood we need as much force as we can, therefore we want to use as many approaches as we can. Before we jump into the A, one more thing -- what do we want to change? What can we change? And what can we not change? So according to researchers led by the lights of Sonja Lyubomirsky,Ed Diener,happiness comprises… as we're to explain an individual's happiness, we need to look at the three factors. The first factor is the genetic set range, not genetic set point,it's a range. We're all born with certain predisposition toward happiness and well-being. Some people are born more with.. you know the smiley face with the smiley spoon in their mouth; others less so. And we're all somewhere on this, you know bell curve,some people luckier than others. As I mentioned couple of times before,I wasn't born that lucky. I was born more on the anxious side of this curve not with the, with the happy spoon in my mouth, which by the way I think helps me teach this class, because I do these things,I apply these things, I make a difference in my life. You know,been there,done that,doing it. I can speak from personal experiences as you know. Now some people may look at it and say, ‘that's terrible that we have a genetic set range.' Well,my answer to that is,it's not terri.. it's not good.It's not bad.It is. The law of gravity.It's not good it's not bad.It is. And nature to be commanded must be obeyed. We need to look at our nature, understand it and then make the best of it. About 50 percent of our levels of well-being of the variance in explaining happiness can't be accounted for by genes, which explains some of the results, or for example,the twin studies. Why there were such similarities among the twins even if they were,or between the twins, even if they were real depart. Because genes matter.Not good,not bad.It is. They matter 50 percent,not 100 percent,thank God, but 50 percent of the variance. The important thing to keep in mind is that we have a lot of control what we do with these genes. You know one could argue that success... and I'm just throwing out numbers.I don't know what it is exactly. But successful basketball players is determined 50 percent by genes in terms of how much fast twitch versus slow twitch they have in their muscles, or how high they can jump,how coordinated they are, how tall they are.All these things matter. They go into the… And these are determined by genes. However,if Michael Jordan hadn't worked on his basketball, I would be a better player than he is. If he didn't work on his basketball at all,and I did and do. In other words also with genes, people who don't work on their happiness even if they have the best of genes will not do as well as people with less happy genes who work on it. So work matters a great deal. The second thing that matters that makes up the hundred percent of variance of happiness, external circumstances. Of course,extreme circumstances make a lot of difference, whether we're living in a free country versus oppression. That makes a lot of difference. However,in general,external circumstances beyond the extremes, beyond being homeless on the street,make very little difference, in fact,about 10% of the total variance.So genetic genes 50%, external circumstances such as place of residence, such as income,such as weather. And again not for people,for example, who have seasonal affective disorder. Then of course it matters whether we get sun or not. I'm talking about,um,most people,not people with SAD. So out of these extremes,external circumstances make, matter about 10%,not much. The third thing, the rest of the 40% is accounted for by intentional activities. What that means is what we do,how we act,what we think about, how we interpret the world,what we focus on. In essence,what 1504 is about. What we have discussed since the first class, what we're gonna discuss even more in the second half of the semester. These intentional activities, our focus,these are essentially our ABCs. This is what real meaningful change comes. And this is where we are gonna focus. Would be nice if we could do something with our genes. Would be nice.Cannot.Would be nice if we had more control of our external circumstances. But even if we did and many people do. Many people sitting in this room or watching at home, do have more control doesn't make that much of the difference. What makes the most difference that we have control over are the internal activities, our interpretation of the world and our action. So let's jump into it. The A,affect,emotion,the heart, it's a connection between, and it's a more logical connection, linguistic connection between emotion,motivation,motion. E-motion to move away.Without emotion we wouldn't move. You read about it in the book. Or you will read about it in the book about Elliott, the person who Damásio research who just lost his emotional faculty and with it lost all motivation to act or do anything even though his cognition was in place. We need emotion in order to move. So I wanna talk about,again,two aspects within emotion. The first,gradual change.The Second,more acute change. The gradual change is mindful meditation. Mindful meditation is arguably the most powerful intervention for bringing about calm and equanimity. A lot of research on it. We're gonna spend a whole week talking about it. Today what I wanna do is just to introduce it,the basic, the foundation of the spiral of mindfulness. Jon Kabatt-Zin who in many ways, is responsible for bringing serious research into this realm. He along with people like Tara Bennett-Goleman, people like Herbert Benson from the medical school here, brought serious research to this what was considered a mystical field. “Cultivating mindfulness can lead to the discovery of deep realms of relaxation, calmness and insight within yourself. The path to it in any moment lies no farther than your own body and mind and your own breathing." This is the amazing thing about mindfulness. The result that you'll see that I'll talk about when we talk about research,quite literally mind-boggling. I mean they change the way our mind works, transform our brain just by focusing on the breath, by focusing on parts of our body,by being present. "All of us have the capacity to be mindful. All it involves is cultivating our ability to pay attention in the present moment." Let's experience it just for a minute or two. So here is what I'd like you to do once again if you feel comfortable with it. So sit back,on your,on your chair with your back against, against the,the back rest. Make yourself as comfortable as you can. Plant both feet on the ground comfortably. And if you feel comfortable,if you feel comfortable, just close your eyes. And move your attention to your breathing. Take a deep breath in,into your belly. Slow,quiet,gentle exhalation. Deep slow inhalation,all the way into your belly. Slow,gentle,quiet,long exhalation. If you mind wanders,just return to your breathing. Now in your mind's eye,just scan your body,your forehand, your eyes,your nose,mouth,your neck,your chest, your upper back,lower back,your legs, all the way down to your feet.Just scan your body while continuing to breathe deeply,slowly and gently. And through your scan,find a part of your body that is a little bit more tense than the others. It could be your jaws.It could be your neck. It could be your shoulders,your stomach. You're feeling a little bit of disease. Could be your legs,your knees,your feet. Identify that one part of the body that is a little bit more tense than the others and focus on it and continue to breath. Take a deep breath into that part of your body. And when you let go and you exhale, also let go of the tension that's there.Just relax it. And take a few deep breath into that part of your body and relax it and let go. Return your focus to your breathing.Take a deep breath in. Slow gentle quiet long exhale,relaxing with the exhalation. Deep breathing in,deep slow gentle long exhaling. At the end of the next exhalation, gently slowly quietly open your eyes. Once again if the person next to you is asleep, just gently wake them up. Tara Bennett Goleman.Tara Bennett Goleman. If someone is speaking in their sleep,please wake them up. Tara Bennett Goleman,in her book,‘Emotional Alchemy'. “Mindfulness means seeing things as they are, without trying to change them. The point is to dissolve our reactions to disturbing emotions, being careful not to reject the emotion itself." This is what permission to be human is all about. Along the emotion,experiencing the emotion, and just breathing through it. And very often when we do that,not always, but very often,it dissolves. And with it,with the emotional dissolution of the emotion comes also the psychological dissolution of this painful emotion. Again we'll talk much,much more about this very important intervention after spring break. This is about gradual change. What we'll see when we talk about research is that even if this is gradual change, within as little as 8 weeks of regular meditation, our brain actually starts to change its form to transform. Our immune system strengthens after as little as 8 weeks of regular daily meditation. It doesn't have to be 5 hours a day. As little as 30 minutes or 20 minutes a day can already affect change. This is gradual, slow, hopefully something that you'll take up as a life time, life long intervention. Here is an example of more acute change when it comes to our emotion. So when I thought about filling in this box in the 3 by 2 model, how do I find the acute emotional change? Immediately my mind went to research in clinical psychology, specifically to post-traumatic stress disorder. Post-traumatic stress disorder,something that has been studied thousands and thousands of articles; research done in our department too. And when I look at it,I said, 'well,this is an example of an acute change,a very acute change Because what happens when we have a trauma, many people after the trauma are changed forever, for the rest of their lives if they have PTSD. It actually has changed, changes the chemical that flow through our brain. It changes the structure of our brain, creates new neural pathways,kills a lot of old neural pathways as a result of a single experience. It's a sledge hammer. It is very widespread unfortunately. I mentioned it last time. 30 percent of Vietnam vets have PTSD.30 percent. 80 percent from the first Gulf War have PTSD. As I mention we don't have the exact data yet from the second Gulf War. But the numbers are likely gonna be higher than that. After 911 or before 911 right,there were 20,000 individuals with PTSD south of 110th street New York. Right after 911, 60,000 individuals with post-traumatic stress disorder. Now this has consequences. Again it has consequences on the way our brain functions, very often,not always,but very often for the rest of our lives. So this is an acute change. It comes immediately one trauma, 911 or seeing something terrible in war. And then that often has an effect for the rest of, for the per..,for the entire life. It's a shock treatment,a negative shock treatment. Now when look at PTSD when I thought about it,I asked, ‘OK,so what is positive psychology have to do with this.' I mean this is clinical psychology. This is ”negative psychology”.Well the answer is a lot. First of all,a lot of research started only 1998, again,10 years ago, the time when positive psychology came in to the scene, research on post-traumatic growth. And what was found was that in fact more people experience growth as a result of a trauma than post,than PTSD. However,we don't talk about post-traumatic growth. Everyone knows about PTSD. But again this is another example of where the light is not shed on something that is actually working well. And what is working here? Most people are extremely resilient able to withstand trauma. And that is a very empowering understanding to have. We'll become more of a self-fulfilling prophecy, and more people will experience post-traumatic growth if they only knew that it was a possibility that it was common. If they didn't feel guilty about experiencing growth as a result of trauma. How can I grow after what I saw,what I visioned, what I experienced in Vietnam.It's wrong. Again things don't happen for the best. But some people are able to make the best of things that happen. Post-traumatic growth, it happens when people begin to focus on the benefit. So what is the benefit of this trauma. It didn't happen for the best. But what if I learn from my cancer for example. Well,to be closer to my family,to appreciate the breath, to appreciate the flowers,to enjoy my friends more. Didn't happen for the best. But I'm gonna make…I did make the best of it. Benefit finding. Or many people are able to find meaning in it through journaling. We'll talk about journaling next class. Or people who are able to share their experience of the trauma. Remember the difference between holocaust survivors and Vietnam vets. Holocaust survivors shared,talked about it,wrote about it. Vietnam vets ruminated about it. Going back to the Lyubomirsky study. And when you just ruminate without sharing, without,without taking it out. It becomes stronger and it's more likely to become PTSD. But it doesn't always do that. And it's important to understand the magnetism of post-traumatic growth. So here is the question that I have. This is a positive psychology course. Remember what positive psychology is; is that it focuses on what works. So the question that I asked myself as I was preparing for this course was this. Is there a positive equivalent to trauma, something that is so powerful yet positive that will change the way our brain functions in an instance like a sledgehammer? Is there something like that? Or in other words,what I asked is, can a single positive experience create a positive channel that will lead to a permanent increase in wellbeing, calm and positive memories. In other words,the opposite of PTSD. And again asking you shall receive.A question begins a quest. And as soon as I ask this question,it open up channels that I didn't see before that were literally right in front of my eyes And this was the work that I've studied for many years of one of my intellectual heroes, Abraham Maslow who talks about the peak experience. Now,what I'm gonna talk about now is more hypothesis than well grounded research. It's a hypothesis that I hope some of you will, will research either here as your senior thesis, or in the future,or will encourage people to research these ideas. Everything that I share in this class is based on very rigorous research. This is one area where it's a hypothesis. But bear with me and see what you think of it, of this hypothesis when I finish explaining it. Because there is some,some research on it,not enough, you know for a stand of approval yet. But think about it.Does it make sense. So let's see what is a peak experience. Maslow's definition of a peak experience: ‘it's a generalization for the best moments of the human being, for the happiest moments of life, for experiences of ecstasy,rapture,bliss,of the greatest joy. I found that such experiences came from profound aesthetic experiences such as creative ecstasies,moments of mature love, perfect sexual experiences,parental love, experiences of natural childbirth,and many others.' Everyone or most of people have the experience, peak experiences again whether it was with your girlfriend boyfriend, whether it was reading a book, whether it was listening to your favourate piece of music. Just being one with the experience,it was..um.. Many of theologians talk about as the religious experience, as spiritual experience where you just walked through the yard and suddenly felt one -it was a John Harvard. Maybe not.But experience just one with everything. This is the experience they talk about in Zen, being connected to the present, feeling so good so complete like you don't need anything else. Everything is right here. Now I know I experience with my family at times. You know last night having dinner with my family and friends. You know we were sitting around,I just felt this is it. You know what else do I need. Just being so complete,so in the moment.A peak experience. Now these peak experiences usually don't last for very long. They come and they go.It's a peak. However,they can and often do have repercussions. Now,maybe you can see now where I'm going with this. So do I,what I thought about when I thought about peak experiences was maybe, just maybe this is the positive equivalent to the trauma. Maybe it's a shock treatment of ecstasy that can have effect beyond just the experience itself, just like PTSD has effect beyond the experience itself. There're people today who are living and reliving 911, still affecting them,still affecting their brain, creating new channels, new pathways that didn't exist before 9/11/01. So is peak experience shock treatment of ecstasy? If peak experience is the positive equivalent of a trauma, then the equivalent of a post-traumatic stress disorder is what I called post peak experience order. I know,cheesy.But I think there is something behind it. Some research on it.Some,very,um,very little. But I think it actually works. So one of the research studies that was done it was by one of Maslow's student. She studied,um women after child birth. And what she found was that sometimes, not always,in fact not most times, but often these women experience peak experience. And it changed their lives. As a result of it,they became more confident, more generous and benevolent,and happier, just as a result of a single experience, a shock treatment of ecstasy,something which was, which happened to them,which meant so much to them. Now they did this research in the early 50s or late, no,early 50s. Today it may also happen more often with men because men today are more likely to be present when the child is born. I know that in my…when David was born, you know I burst out crying. It was a very powerful experience when it happened; certainly peak experience for me. Here's what Maslow says about peak experiences.And again not talking specifically about post peak experience order, but alluding to it. ‘Peak experiences often have consequences... They can do the same there as psychotherapy, if one keeps his goals right, and if one knows just what he is about, and if one is conscious of what he is going toward. We can certainly talk,on the one hand, of the breaking up of symptoms,like the breaking up of cliches, of anxieties,or the like; or on the other hand, we can talk about the development of spontaneity,and of courage, and of Olympian or Godlike humor and suchness, sensory awareness,body awareness,and the like.' So what he's saying here is that these effects can have consequences beyond just the peak experience if we do certain thing such as follow up on it. William James in The Varieties of Religious Experiences talks about such moments that change lives and how they change lives. Peak experience can quite literally lead to a new brain order. And again the jury still out on the research. But there's more and more suggestions. And we'll talk about it next time as well that show that there is something there, that it can be the positive equivalent of a trauma if we know what we do,to do with it. And here's the important issue. The question is first do we experience peak experiences and experience more of them? And second,after we experience peak experience, how can we make it more likely that we enjoy PPEO? Because just like not everyone after a trauma experience PTSD. In fact,the majority don't.Just in the same way, most people don't experience PPEO after a peak experience. How do you increase the likelihood, first of increasing peak experience and second of increasing the likelihood of post peak experience order. So to enhance peak experience, just very briefly because essentially the course is about that. So I'm gonna just throw out a few ideas that we've talked about and some that we'll talk about. First,permission to be human.Acceptance,accepting emotions. Why? Because if we don't accept painful emotions, if we don't give ourselves permission to be human, we're blocking our emotional pathways. And positive emotions and painful emotions often flow through the same emotional pathways. And when we're limiting one,we're very often limiting the other. So if we open up the pathways, give ourselves the permission to be human and give ourselves the permission to cry when we're sad or ecstatic. That very often opens up, makes it more likely that we experience positive emotions as well Paradoxical, but this is the paradox of the permission to be human. When we give ourselves permission to experience painful emotions, we're more likely to experience the positive emotions. Mindfulness,being present. Lot of time when we are listening to music, for example,really listening to music, not just having it as background while text messaging, doing homework,and talking to our friends. But when we really listen to music that we love, very often we have a peak experience being present. According to Maslow's research, these are two of the most likely, most likely areas where we can experience the peak experience. And by the way this I believe is,is innate. You know even I see with,with Sherio,my one year old daughter. You know when there is music,when we dance,she laughs. This is not something we taught her. We were born with,with this inclination for music and dance. We need to take time for that.Having a meaningful goal. When we're on purpose, when we're doing things that we love to do,when what we are, we are doing is meaningful and significant to us, we're much more likely to experience peak experiences. Finally one of the greatest barriers in our culture,time. It's very difficult to experience peak experiences when we're on the rush,when we're stressed and anxious. These are peak experience killers. Whether it's when making love, whether it's when listening to music, whether it's with when spending time with friends, or all of the above together. How do we enhance the likelihood of PPEO once we have experienced peak experience? First thing,replaying an image. Remember the mind doesn't know the difference within the imaginary and the real. It plays it over and over again. And when we play it over and over again, the neural pathway is reinforced. The sledge hammer begins the neural pathway. And then we reinforce it through replaying through imagination. Writing about it. This is gonna be a response paper next week. Writing about a peak experience. When we journal about it,describing it,not analyzing it. Remember the difference with Lyubomirsky.Positive emotions, positive experiences is not as helpful to analyze. So just to describe it,once again reinforce the neural pathways. We relive it.We replay it. Once again taking time,taking time. And finally taking action which is how we can reinforce the initial experience of the, um,the peak experience,reinforce the neural pathways. So I had it inside, an Ah-ha moment as a result of this peak experience. Now I'm gonna do something about it and act, which leads me to the second point,which is B-behavior. I've been teaching and participating in workshops and seminars and classes on self improvement psychology, positive psychology and clinical psychology for almost 20 yeas since I was,since I was,well before I was 20. And what I noticed in other people's workshops, or in my workshops in seminars in classes is the following. Most people,if the workshop or the class is good, exit the classroom,or the weekend or the semester. If they were here before, they usually experience a relative high after. But there're two groups of people. Both groups experience a relative high. The first group which unfortunately are the majority. After that high,go back to their base level of happiness, something we're familiar with. The second group,not majority, but not a small minority experience that high after. That high doesn't last forever. However,they go back,but when they go back, their base level of wellbeing is higher than it was before. And they continue to have their vicissitudes, but this time along a higher base level of happiness than before. Now needless to say, I want to understand why people experience this, some people and other people experience this, because I want people who take my class to enjoy lasting change as opposed to temporary. Nice,feels good,not enough. It doesn't justify the effort that they put into the workshop. And it doesn't justify the effort that I put into my work. So I want to understand the difference between the two. And here is the single most important difference that I identified between these two groups. Group 2,the distinguishing characteristic was that after the workshop or class or seminar, not at the end of the semester if it was a semester long class, after each class or after many of the classes introducing immediate behavioral change. They don't wait and say ‘ok,after this course is over, I'll reevaluate my life and see how I do. Immediately introducing real behavioral change, doing exercises that we talked about in class, taking risks that they haven't before but introducing change immediately,not waiting. And those introduce change immediately don't have a high or peak experience constantly. But their base level of happiness goes up as opposed to going down returning to where it was before when there was no behavioral change. And now I start every workshop and seminar when I have a few day workshop or seminar introducing this model of change. What do we know from a lot of research in psychology is there is a relationship between attitudes and behaviors. And we talked about it,we illuded into it already in the past. So we all have attitudes whether it's attitudes about psychology, whether it's attitudes about another person, whether it's attitude about myself. And these attitudes affect our behavior. So for example,if I have a positive attitude towards psychology or positive psychology,I'm more likely to take 1504 than if my attitude towards psychology and positive psychology is negative. Or if I have a good attitude toward a certain belief about a certain person, I'm much more likely to want befriend this person if I like him than if I don't. So attitudes affect behavior. That's very clear,easy to understand. But what psychologists have found, the likes of Alice Eagly,Daryl Bem and others. What they have found is that behavior also affects attitude. It works both ways. So if I behave in a certain way, it is likely to change my attitude in accordance with my behavior And remember we talked about it. Why? Because we have an attitude. And our behavior is the outside world. The mind doesn't like when there is incongruence between the inside and outside. So if we behave in a certain way, the attitude is gonna be pulled down to reflect that behavior. If we behave in this way, the attitude the mind doesn't like incongruence, it's going to create equality between the two, congruency consistency between the two. And the way it'll do that is either by changing our behavior, and here is the key,or more often by changing our attitude. Now all of us here, whether you are 18 or whether you are 80,we all have habits. And again,we first make our habits and then our habits make us. Habits are behavioral patterns,thinking patterns. Behaviors are more powerful.Action is more powerful than words. If we have a certain behavior that we had before the class. What the class does is change your attitude about a certain thing But if it doesn't match with your behavior, after the class the mind looks for consistency. The attitude is gonna be pulled down back to where it was before unless your behavior changes to match your change of behavior. All the class can do,whether it's 1504 or Justice or Psych 1. All the class all workshop and seminar. All they can do is introduce attitudinal change. In this class, attitudinal change is one,for example,self-esteem. What is self-esteem? The attitude that I have toward myself; high self-esteem positive,low self-esteem negative. What is the benefit finder versus the fault finder is the attitude toward the world. Do I see this positive as a resource for wellbeing? Or do I focus on the negative as a fault finder. Perfectionism.It's an attitude toward failure. But all this class can do all I can do all your TFs can do is introduce or encourage attitudinal changes, to convince you through research that learn to focus on the positive. However,if you don't follow up with behavior and that means doing the gratitude study, um the gratitude exercise that means writing the letter you are responsible for this week but doing it regularly. Unless behavior is gonna follow, the attitude will go back and reflect your attitude and your behavior from before the class or before the intervention. There has to be behavioral change. Let me show you some studies showing the impact of the behavioral change. This was done prisoners of war in American prisoners of war during the Korean War. And what Edgar Schein who's just across street here at MIT showed was that the captors of the Americans got them to change their minds about Communism,about the Chinese. Captors. How gradually by simply asking them write about the good things within Communism. We know we don't like Communism. We wouldn't be fighting if we did. But write about the positives of it. Write it to your prison-mates. Write letters home,telling them how you being treated and making sure of course they only focus on the good. So they didn't ask them to lie necessarily though often they did. But they asked them to focus on the positive. Over time,the attitude actually changed. And they became actually more open and more positive toward their captors. Because their behavior,writing letters, talking to their friends about it, they have to give lectures on it, was one of “I feel positive about this”. And their attitude over time actually changed. And they became more positive. Cognitive distance, those of you who have taken Psych 1 or others heard about it. Cognitive distance is when there is incongruence between two thoughts when two beliefs are conflicting. We don't like it.We want there to be a match. Or when there is a conflict between behavior and a belief. And what cognitive distance says is that this is... has to be resolved. And the way we resolve it is usually by getting our attitudes, our thoughts,our beliefs to match our behavior. Again behaviors is more powerful than words. Self perception theory,we talked about a lot. I'm not gonna elaborate on it any more. We see ourselves. And we derive certain conclusions about ourselves. Facial feedback hypothesis. If you put on a frown now or a nice gentle smile, your body chemistries are actually going to change to reflect whatever your face is showing. So this is a quote by..where is it? By Thich Nhat Hanh. Kind of difficult to pronounce his name,a Buddhist monk. "Sometimes your joy is the source of your smile, but sometimes your smile can be the source of your joy." So we actually influence our body. We actually influence our mood through our face. That's why actors very often can get into whatever character they're playing simply by acting. Because there's the facial feedback to the rest of your body. You actually release chemicals according with the face that you are making. William James. “Whistling to keep up courage is no mere figure of speech. On the other hand,sit all day in a moping posture,sigh, and reply to everything with a dismal voice, and your melancholy lingers... Smooth the brow,brighten the eyes, contract the dorsal rather than the ventral aspect of the frame, and speak in a major key,pass the genial compliment, and your heart must be frigid indeed if it does not gradually thaw." What essentially William James is talking about is something beyond the facial feedback hypothesis. It's something where there is not much research just a little research on which is the body feedback hypothesis. If you sit down all day like this versus upright in proud, it will affect your mood. It will affect how you feel about yourself in a few ways. First of all,the message you communicate to yourself, self perception theory. But also in terms of how other people perceive you. If you shake hands like this limply versus shake hands firmly, your are communicating message to the person with whom you are shaking your hands. And that message comes back right at you both in terms of how they perceive you and that impacts you but also in terms of how you perceive yourself. You know one of the ex students from 1504. She played,er..she was on the hockey team, just graduated last year.So I met her over the summer. And she comes over.And she shakes my hand. And I was in tears.It hurt so much. And I thought she must have listened in class. So don't exaggerate,just firm,nice. I mean really I think she broke some of the bones in my hand. But it matters. It communicates a message. You know I'm not gonna mess with her ever. I'm scared of her right now. It communicates a message of strength and confidence. If we walk around proud,we're communicating a certain message. If we walk around stooped, we're also communicating a message to the environment that then reflects on us, but also to ourselves and that also reflects on us too. And finally,I must share a study with you. This is by Hammerly.This is a study done... you know what,actually I'm gonna leave that to next time because I wanna get to something important. So I'm gonna start next time with this,with this study. Because it's say,it's a long study. But it's a very important study. So I will,I will talk about it next time first thing in class. I want to get to something before we end, something that will change our relationship. Fake it till you make it. David Myers has done a lot of important work in this area of positive psychology. What he showed was it very often even if we act happy, even if we act with high self-esteem, even if I act joyful as William James said,that affects our mood The question now becomes what about permission to be human. Well,first of all, there are times when we don't want to fake it till we make it, we wanna cry, we wanna be miserable and we wanna act that way. However,we need to find when is it the time to get out and to go to that party even if it's the last thing in the world that I wanna do. And the difference here is about active acceptance. I can still accept up my emotions. I can still accept my pain and experience it and still choose to act in accordance with how I deal more, most appropriate or most helpful. So I can accept the fact you know I was just dumped say by my girlfriend, I can accept the fact that I feel terrible about it and awful but then three days later go out to Oaks and party,go wild. So faking it again because of the facial feedback hypothesis because of the body feedback hypothesis because of self-perception theory. The behavior will affect my attitude. And after a crazy night out in Oaks, I will actually feel better and healthy. well,may be not,but better. Here's a quick video of Marva Collins, talking the,talking about some of her experiences. “I think that maybe what I am is my parents and their consistency I mean I wanted to be as successful as my parents, my grandparents. In those days,it was quiet rare to be black and to be successful So I think the determination of my parents and grandparents, they are...we would get chest high. As I said I was 14 years older than my one sister. But if we walked in church and didn't hold our heads up. My mom would say, ‘what was wrong with you today walking with your head all down?' She would scream down the street, ‘get your head up!' on my way to school. People I've often heard them comment to her. I can always tell you child are on the playground. We were brought up the great sense of pride." Get your head up,walk up straight when you watch Marva Collins. That's how she walks.That's how she carries herself. And that communicates a message to her students to other people to herself. I'm gonna jump to this point. So very often behavioral change is gradual. So what is the acute change. The acute change is about coping. It's about putting ourselves on the line. And when we cope, the important thing…when we to... it's to take risks. It's to do something we don't feel comfortable doing. In other words, it's about exiting our comfort zone and entering our stretch zone Now what I wanna do now is share with you two stories from, from my past,two stories that initially you will see unconnected but as you will understand soon are very much connected. One a difficult story,the other a difficult story. My first memory. You know most people can, most people have a first memory the first time when the first thing that you remember. My first memory is from September 1973. I was almost 3 years old. And it was Yom Kippur the holiest day of the year. And I remember being at home and suddenly the phone rings. Now the phone my parents orthodox.I was raised orthodox. The phone never rings on Shabbat,on a Saturday; let alone Yom Kippur.But the phone rings. Both of my parents. I remember them jump up and run to the phone. My dad picks it up. And I'm standing between my parents. He looks at my mom and said something whispering. Couldn't hear what it was.But my mom's face changes. And there's terror,fear in her eyes.And I begin to tear. And my dad picks me up and says I'm going for a few days but I'll be back. Now I know what happens. So what happened was that my parents got a call from my uncle who at that time was doing his reserves in the military. He's in,he is in intelligence.And war had just broke out. Young people at the holiest day of the year in Israel. The Israel military is most of the people are not the boarders,are not protecting. It is a complete surprise, 5 Arab armies,launch a war against Israel. My dad puts me down,goes to his room from the top of the .. I still see him taking out his army uniform putting it on, taking his M16 sub machine gun,putting it on, putting on his shoes tieing them. And my mom all the while with him making him things. They are talking once in a while smiling at me. But I sense a tension there.I don't know why. We then walk down to my dad's car. He had a tur- old turquoise Ford Cortina. He takes shoe polish and paints the lights of the of the car. Why? Again later I know because at night when you drive with your lights on, you don't want the lights to be too bright in case of an air raid So he paints the lights.And I watch him do all that. And then he picks me up and hugs me and says once again “I'll be back in a few days." He gets into his car.And I begin to sob uncontrollably. One of our neighbours whose name is Sharlon. He is too old to go into the army. So he is standing there. We all look at my dad going off in the car. He picks me up.And I'm crying. And he looks at me and says, 'Tal,do you want to be a soldier like Aba, like your dad when you grow up?' and I say,'Yes,I do.' 'Well,soldiers don't cry.' And I stopped crying. And I didn't cry for almost 20 years after that. Then I came to Harvard.And I started to study psychology. You know where I'm going,right? I started to study psychology. And studying psychology, I realized one of the things that I wanted to work on. One of the most important things that I wanted to work on was getting in touch with my feminine side, knowing Jung's language,the Yin and the Yang; the anima the animus. I wanted to be more in touch with of my feminine side because I knew that it wasn't healthy to repress emotions. I was repressing painful emotions. The exact same thing happens with positive emotions. Same emotional channels. But I grew up in a culture that's very macho. Men don't cry.Or soldiers.Or tough. We can handle anything. And that's the culture that I grew up. And again this was my first memory. I heard the same thing over and over and over again, the same message. It's not cool.It's not manly to show emotions. It reminds me up after losing one of the most important squash tournaments for me, losing the national championships after I'd won it the year before.Surprise. Wasn't supposed to lose it; was supposed to win. I go to my house with my girlfriend after. And we're just hanging out. And suddenly she begins to cry. And I say to her,'why are you crying?' And she said,'I'm crying because you are not crying.' Because she understood how important it was for me. And this is how I basically experience my childhood,teenage, being tough,being macho. And then I came here and understood I need to let go. I need to be more in touch with the feminine side. So this is story number one. Let me move on to story number two. One of the students that I had here,some of you may know her, class of 04,was Lindsay Hyde. Lindsay Hyde studied with me. We had one on one tutorial as well.We worked a lot together. Lindsay Hyde is the founder of 'Strong Women Strong Girls', wonderful organization part of PBHA. She found it,now a national organization. I was also one of the funding board member of that organization. Wonderful site swsg.org for those of you interested. I was invited by Lindsay to give a talk for 'Strong Women Strong Girls' for the mentors who were Harvard students as well as students from… other women from other colleges around Boston. And I gave a talk.And here's Lindsay. She was with one of the students,3rd grade student, who she mentors and other Harvard students mentor and do wonderful work. And I believe in this organization. I support it from the from the get-go almost.And I gave a talk. And the talk was about teaching the importance of role modeling, was about integrity. I talked to them about Marva Collins and about the important work that they were doing. And at the end of the talk which went well, I think for myself for the participants, I got a present,a gift a token of appreciation. And the present was a shirt. It wasn't any shirt. It was a pink shirt,the color I don't normally wear. Certainly I never wore it in Israel. Not only it was a pink shirt,it was, since it was the Strong Women Strong Girl shirt. It was also a very small shirt, more suited for the 3rd graders than for older ones. But still they said, ' we wanted you to have it as a token of our appreciation.' And then I made a mistake.And I said jokingly of course. I was teaching 1504 at the time. I said jokingly,'I will wear the shirt to class 'and laughed. And here it is the shirt that I got. And then there was another student of mine from 1504, Tory Martin,who was who run the organization at that time took over from Lindsay at Harvard. And Tory Martin said,'I'm gonna hold you to it.' And I laughed and then almost cried.Becau.. 'what do you what do you mean hold me to it. I mean I was joking.' She said, 'look,you just talk to us about the importance of integrity.' which I did,I mean look here,integrity. It's even behind.I did.I said,that's right,I did. So what am I gonna go back on my word?' That's one of my core values,integrity. And then my whole childhood flashed before my eyes. And I thought about something that Churchill said which was 'find opportunity in difficulty.' So I looked for the opportunity. And here it was an opportunity handed to me in a pink shirt, to be more in touch with my feminine side. So ladies and gentlemen.Spring fashion 2008. [MUSIC] Now I know I know you're gonna find this hard to believe. But believe me when I say that this for me was going out of my comfort zone. In fact maybe it was going out from my stretch zone a little bit, but into my panic zone. I was telling the TFs before class that when I prepared for this class. You know I have,I have all my notes you know. And here I write. Every time I went over it,when I initially wrote it on my notes. It was like a ...adrenalin rush in my stomach, going out of my comfort zone. Now I'm also out of my comfort zone which is why I have to have it at the end of the class as opposed to the beginning of class. But the key is to attain optimum levels of discomfort. I may have a little overshock a little bit. But the key is optimum levels of discomfort. And why? There is no other way to change. I can think about it all day long and say I want to be in touch with my feminine side or I want to be more courageous,I want to get out. I can think about it all day long. Nothing will happen. Nothing will happen unless we bring about real actual behavioral change, real actual behavioral action. And when we do that,then the sky is the limit. Thank you.I will see you on Thursday. 



 Chapter 10: 养成良好习惯


Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Hi.Good morning. So first of all,are there any junior parents today? Welcome.Welcome.I'm so glad you are here. I'm even gladder you weren't here on Tuesday. So just...just...Just a couple of announcements. Yeah,you know,I was asking myself after Tuesday, "are they ever going to take me seriously again?" I hope so. Or "will they love me tomorrow?" So just a couple of announcements. First,there are many emails regarding the response papers, whether the gratitude letters that you write, you also need to submit to your,to your TF, as the response paper.So the answer is yes and no. Alright,next.Yes! You do need to submit it. However,if the letter is too personal or you don't feel comfortable for any reason submitting to your TF as well, just send your TF a note saying "I wrote the letter" and we will take your word for it. And...so you don't have to submit it, though it would be great if you do. The midterm is coming up in a week and a half. So just a couple of words about the midterm. What we have decided to do is to just have a multiple choice midterm. There'll be - can't remember how many - 50? Five zero. 50 questions on the multiple choice. And you'll have 75 minutes to do it. So we'll allow for the 10 minutes or 15 minutes to get organized here. It's not going to be a difficult,you know... Try to fool you or to catch you. It's going to be pretty straight forward. I've told you my philosophy about exams during the first class, those of you who remember. In the past,I didn't used to have an exam because I remember I wasn't happy taking exams as an undergrad. And you know do not do unto others. But then,I realize that there was the value to them. Not a value in terms of differentiation, grades and stuff,all that. The value is that the midterm or final gets you to sit down and synthesize all the material. So if it's a take home,you look for the answers where you are. You take...you just get part of it. With the midterm or final, you sit down and you read everything from lesson 1 to lesson 26. And then that helps you synthesize and hence internalize the material. Because remember what I mentioned time and again: this class is built around the spiral theory of knowledge, meaning everything we talked about in lesson 1,in class 1, is related to class 3,is related to class 7, is related to class 24.Everything is interconnected. And it's when you sit down, you know when I talk about the material,I know it's going to come three weeks from now and I know the connection You still don't,but when you sit down and study for the exam, that's when you get to make the connection, and that's when you really internalize the material at a much higher level.So this is why we have it. I know it's not fun however I think it is pedagogically. It is important to sit down and have a run through, whether it's the midterm and again,for the final. Again,won't be difficult,but do study for it. It would be very straightforward,fact-based. The midterm,as you can imagine,is not about showing creativity. Our goal is that you go over the material and synthesize it. If you have any questions, please email your TFs and they'll be able to answer. If not,then email me. OK.So where were we last time? Actually can't remember. I think I repress the whole lesson. But I was told that I skipped a few things so that I could get to the show at the end. And one thing that I skipped and I want to talk about go back to, after we talked about the body feedback hypothesis. You remember the body feedback hypothesis? How you shake your hand,how you carry yourself. With the facial feedback hypothesis,with your smile,your frown. That communicates certain message to other people, who then reflect back to us and at the same time, we are also communicating to ourselves. Am I confident? or am I proud? Or am I afraid and scared? And very often we need to, as we talk about "fake it till we make it". Because our body,our behavior sends messages to our mind, to our emotions and affects them. There was a wonderful research done by Haemmerlie and second author,Montgomery. Haemmerlie and Montgomery did the following research. They recruited shy heterosexual men. Recruited them for the study.Shy,heterosexual men. And the study was run as follow: these men were told that the study was about taking certain test and they were invited into the equivalent of William James Hall, and they were told "unfortunately we were running behind, so you have to wait. You have to wait until the study actually takes place. In the mean time,you know here is a waiting room and there are other people waiting for the same test. And we'll come and get you. It may take a while.Sorry. We'll pay you for it for the time you have to wait extra." So they ended up waiting in a waiting room. And with them was waiting another person. A female,who unbeknownst to them was actually a confederate, was actually a part of the study. But they thought she was just like them,waiting, also waiting in line for the study to take place. So they were sitting there for 12 minutes with a woman, whose instruction was to strike up a conversation with this shy heterosexual man,and to express a lot of interest and excitement about what they were saying. So they were listening and they were asking questions. "Wow." "Really?" They were laughing at what they were saying for 12 minutes. And then,that, the woman went into the experiment or so they thought. Another woman comes in.Again,for 12 minutes, she sits down with the shy heterosexual man and seems very interested and laughs at what he has to say, and asks questions. And so on and so...for 12 minutes. And the next woman comes in,as she goes into the experiment. And so on.Six times. Six women sitting with the shy heterosexual men, being very interested in what they have to say, striking a conversation.72 minutes total. And then they go into the real experiment,whatever it was. And then next day, they are invited for the same experiment again. And once again,they go through the exact same procedure. For 72 minutes,they sit down with 6 women who are very interested in what they have to say. And of course,what really the experiment was interested in was what effect does this have. What effect does this behavior have on their shyness? And it had radical effects. So over the next 6 months,when they followed upon these, these men suddenly became far less anxious. In general,and specifically around women. They became less shy. These men often for the first time in their lives, initiate relationships and start to date after 144 minutes of intervention. Radical difference.But there was a problem. What's the problem with many of these psychological experiment? That you have to debrief. Exactly.You have to debrief. So six months later,the study was over. The researchers invite the men in and tell them this was just a study. And these women were actually part of the experiment- they were told to seem interested. Cruel,right? Well,less than they thought. It made no difference to these men. Because by this time,they were much more outgoing. They were doing well with the opposite sex. They were going on dates.They were less shy. It started a positive spiral.It didn't matter at all. 144 minutes changed their lives, as far as the dating was concerned at least,if not more. Why? Think back to Bandura's work on self-efficacy. Nothing breeds success like success. When they succeeded,they did well, they saw themselves doing well- self-perception theory. Certain conclusions about who they are, what they are and that led to an upward spiral, and continued that upward spiral. Yeah,we talked about 'fake it till we make it', then watch Marva Collins. Chapters of the Fathers.Pirkei Avot. One of the seminal Jewish texts: "Those whose deeds exceed their wisdom,their wisdom shall endure but those whose wisdom exceeds their deeds, their wisdom shall not endure.” If we just- remember what I talked about- if we just go to a workshop or a class, and understand it on the cognitive level, even have an ah ha moment,a break through,nothing will happen, unless we follow our new found wisdom or understanding with deeds,with action.Why? Because we first make our habits,and then our habits make us. And if we are before the workshop or class here, and then our attitude changes but our behavior doesn't, our attitude will be pulled down over time by our habits. So it's only,if we also change our habits over time, if we start doing things,if we,for example, put ourselves on the line- cope. Or if we start doing the gratitude exercise or writting letters on the regular basis, or starting physical exercise- arguably being most powerful intervention, to deal with anxiety,depression as well as the ADHD. And that's when we start doing these things right after the change is going to be ephemeral we are going to go back to where we were before. Lasting,permanent change- attitude change has to be matched by deeds,by behavior. Dan Millman- I mentioned him in class a couple of weeks ago, The way of peaceful warrior, talks about the importance of action and change. He says,quote,"To change the course of your life, choose one of two basic methods. One.You can direct your energy and attention toward trying to fix your mind,find your focus, affirm your power, free your emotions and visualize positive outcomes so that you can finally develop the confidence to display the courage to discover the determination to make the commitment to feel sufficiently motivated to do what it is you need to do. Two.Or you can just do it." You know,sometimes,easier said than done. However,very often, you know,jumping into the water,just doing it, taking action has the same effect as all the preparation, or even the better effect,and leads to an upward spiral. OK.Then we talked about coping and exiting your comfort zone. Parents,please close your eyes at this point.Alright. And I ended by talking about attaining your 'optimum levels of discomfort'. What does this mean? What does this mean? So we can look at approaches to change or reactions to change, behavioral change along the continuum of tension. Most of us most of the time are in our comfort zone. It's great.It's wonderful.However, when we are in the comfort zone,very little change happens. If you go beyond that,we get to our stretch zone. This is what we call the optimal discomfort zone. This is where change actually happens. Beyond that is the panic zone. This is where we have anxiety and difficulty. This is the place that is usually unhealthy. Unhealthy for change. Because very often,we can go back on where we were before. You can think about this with a metaphor: the comfort zone would be freezing water. The stretch zone would be flowing water. The panic zone would be boiling water. Again,a lot of movement, but out of control and potentially dangerous. The best way to be usually is in the stretch zone. You'll read about it next week when you read about flow. Flow is when you have optimal level of arousal, optimal level of tension. When the task that you are doing,or whatever you are doing, is not too difficult nor too easy. See what I did at the end of last class was certainly, as I said,as you saw I hope,out of my comfort zone. However,it wasn't enough- well,maybe- but probably not in the panic zone. Why? Because I already know you- we have been together for over a month. It's already passed at the drop date- so,too late for you. So I wasn't taking that much of the risk. It was just stretching.And it was important for me to do... I mean,really personally important for me to do it. Because it does stretch me and get me more in touch with my humanity. Or for example,let's say you want to start an exercise in gym. You realize how important it is.You read the research. You are exposed to that research and you see it really has an important effect. And you start exercising. Well,if you have an exercise for 5 years and you got to start running 8 miles a day. That's a problem. You are over-stretching.You'll probably get injured. If you continue sitting in front of the TV or playing gameboy, that's also not good for change. That's the comfort zone perhaps not good. Stretch will be "OK,let me start with walking for two miles a day and build it up gradually." Stretch myself,but not too much. Or if you think about starting to give lectures to others, paying it forward,in positive psychology or biology, whatever your topic is, and you get anxious in front of an audience. You don't start giving a lecture in Sanders Theatre. You start initially with your friends,teammates. This is how I start with my squash teammates. I gave the first lecture to them and then I gave it to my family. Gradually out of the comfort zone. A little bit of stretch and then build it over time. This is the health way of approaching change. Sometimes though,sometimes though, we have to go to the panic zone. why? Because something cannot be changed, or almost impossible to change gradually. For example,addiction. If I'm addicted to drugs,it's very difficult to say, "well I'll just have a little bit less, inject a little bit less today.A little bit less tomorrow." It usually has to be abrupt.And then we are in the boiling realm. Then we are in the panic zone. Quite literally at times,which is why we need help. In this area,we need someone to hold us. Someone to comfort us.Someone to protect us. Because it is such a volatile zone. And potentially dangerous. But generally,if you want to change, the healthy approach to change would be along the stretch zone. It's impossible to change in theory. Now I have said it so many times and yet very often people who take the class,as you know,many of them do change. Many of them do say, "well my life is better today for having taken it." And other people say, "well I took the class and it didn't make a difference in my life It was a fun experience at times- the pink shirt and others. But it didn't make a real lasting difference in my life." In every...almost all- not in all cases,but in almost all cases, it's because it wasn't behavioral change associated with the attitudinal change or with the insides or understandings or recognition. There has to be a bias for action. And that bias for action- just name a few examples: to increase confidence- we do it by taking risks, not by talking and thinking about, or standing in front of the mirror and say to myself: "I have a lot of confidence.I have self-esteem. I'm great.I'm terrific.I'm gorgeous." Not enough. How do we reduce stress in our lives? And we'll talk about it next week. By simplifying,by doing less rather than more. We'll talk about how actually doing less at times doesn't just lead to more happiness, it also leads to more success, more creativity as well as productivity. But we can't reduce the stress in theory. Chipping away through the gratefulness, creating more positive channels, becoming more of a benefit finder over time. It takes time.Doesn't happen overnight. The nice thing though is that when we are afraid, when we think it's too much for us to take certain action, we can use our internal simulator. Remember the mind doesn't know the difference between the real thing and the imaginary thing? And if we imagine something,if we are in the CBT language, if we engage in exposure, either through the imagination or through actual action, when we engage in exposure,over time,we become confident, which as I told you,what I do,preparing for lectures, seeing myself,doing it in my mind's eye, and the mind doesn't know the difference, in the real and in the imagined. And overtime,we'll become more confident. It's a good start.It's not enough. But certainly goes hand in hand and a very useful technique to explore and to try. So all this is well and good. I'm sure some of you are thinking about, and actually some came after class last time and talked to me about it and said, "OK,so we know action is important,but there is a problem. And the problem is that I don't or many people don't have enough discipline to engage in this action, to get out and run three times or five times a week. We are lazy. It's much more fun playing with our Nintendo than going and doing yoga for an hour,at least initially. So I don't have enough discipline for change. I just want a quick show of hands.Be honest. Put up your hand if you believe that if you had more self-discipline- now you may have a lot of self-discipline or very little self-discipline, but if you had more self-discipline, you could potentially be happier and/or more successful. If you had more self-discipline? Be honest. I mean my hand is very much up. OK,so it's most people think that. So I have good news for you and bad news for you. I'll start with the bad, because I'd like to finish on the positive. So the bad news is you aren't going to get any more self-discipline. What you have is what you got and what you will get. That's it.Sorry.Tough luck. Most people,most people,overwhelmingly majority of people think they need or want more self-discipline and believe that they don't have enough. And most, just about all people cannot get any more self-discipline. Nature.That's it.So that's the bad news. The good news: it's actually not that important, neither for success,nor for happiness. You can be more successful and happier with the self-discipline that you currently have. How? If you change your focus from relying on self-discipline for bringing about change to introducing rituals. Changing your focus from self-discipline to rituals. I am going to talk about an idea now that is part of... that is talked about in greater length in The Power of Full Engagement by Jim Loehr and Tony Schwartz. An excellent,excellent book. And what they are talking about is essentially a paradigm shift. A paradigm shift, where we need to stop trying to get more self-discipline, because that,in and of itself is not enough for success, for well-being,for change. And it's because people rely on self-discipline for change. That is the reason why most organizational as well as individual change efforts fail. So let me share with you a fun study. This was done by Roy Baumeister, one of the leading social psychologists of the 20th and the beginning of the 21st century. Great researcher.Here was what he did. He brought in a group of people individually. So the person walks into the experiment. And they are told,once again,"you have to wait in this room, waiting room for the experiment to start. So the person sits down. There is a table right next to that person. And on the table,there's a bowl. And in the bowl,there are freshly baked chocolate chip cookies. Just came out of the oven. Smell the aroma,engulfing them. You know like those cartoons,going into their nose. Phenomenal smell. They are sitting there, next to the chocolate chip cookies that are in a bowl. The experimenter puts and says, "I'll come and pick you about 10 minutes for the experiment." They walk out.And as they are walking out,they tell them, "oh just by the way,these chocolate chip cookies, they are for the next experiment. So if you don't mind,don't touch them." So you are sitting there,almost dying, but you are not touching it. And ten minutes later, the experimenter does come in,takes you to the experiment. The experiment is very difficult. Very difficult.Very difficult test that you need to take. A test that most people don't solve and requires a lot of perseverance and hard work. But most people, even with perseverance and hard work do not solve it. So the outcome measure, what the researcher is interested in is mostly how much did you persevere before giving up on that test. How much did you persevere before giving up on that test? That was the outcome measure,the dependent variable. Second group,randomly picked,come into the same room, sitting on the same chair,have the same bowl on the table. But instead of chocolate chip cookies, what they have in the bowl are red beetroots. Freshly baked.Just came out of the oven. And they are sitting there. And the experimenter is about to walk out,says, "just one more thing. If you don't mind,don't touch those beetroots. They are for the next experiment." OK.Fine. So you are sitting there for 10 minutes. 10 minutes later,the experimenter comes in, takes you to the "real" experiment. Sitting down,you take the exact same test. The exact same puzzle. And once again,how long will you persevere before giving up? Think about for yourself for a second. Who do you think persevered more? The chocolate chip cookies group? Or the beetroots group? Think for yourself for a second. By the way,I guessed wrong when I answered this question.OK. Significantly more perseverance- significantly more, wasn't close- the group that had the beetroots persevered a lot more. Why? I wouldn't understand. The mechanism- and he did some more experiment to explain the mechanism. It's because the chocolate chip cookie group had used self-discipline not to touch the cookies, though (inaudible) they really wanted to touch it. But they couldn't.So they used their quota of self-discipline. And when they went into the "real" experiment, what happened was that they had little or no self-discipline left And that,that maze,that experiment, that test required a lot of self-discipline. The point of this study is we all have limited amount of self-discipline. And the question is what do we used it on. Another question for you. How many people here have, those of you who did set new year resolutions? Put your hand up if you fulfilled every single one of the new year's resolutions that you ever set for yourself. Put your hand up. Every single new year's resolution, if you did set new year resolutions. A bit higher,please.Well,I certainly didn't. But here's another question for you. How many people here...this is an important question, so please,please put your hand up if the answer is affirmative. How many people here brush their teeth this morning? Put your hand up high.Phew! I'm glad to see this. You can all talk to me after,real close. So let me just imagine what happened this morning,this scenario. So you got up in the morning.You were tired. And then you said to yourself, "OK,today is the day.Today is the day. I am going to do it! I am going to brush my teeth this morning!" Right? And to really motivate you as you got out of bed : Here I come now! I mean,here I come to brush... And you brush your teeth,right? Today is the day! Because I have 1504! I'm going to brush my teeth! Yes! No,of course not. You know,you rolled off the bed- you know,barely alive. You probably don't remember you brushed your teeth, because you were asleep still. You know why? Why did everyone, I think,I hope everyone brush their teeth this morning, whereas no one,no one person out of more than 600 students fulfilled their new year's resolutions? Why? Because new year resolutions rely on self-discipline. Brushing our teeth relies on a ritual. We do it everyday.It's automatic. Now there are rituals- we know brushing our teeth is important. People won't talk to us if we don't. But we also know that physical exercise is very important. And yet most people in the world, not at Harvard,but in the world, don't do physical exercise and pay very high price for it. You know it always amazed me when people used to comment on my incredible self-discipline when I was a squash player. It always amazed me because I don't see myself as a person with self-discipline. You know we don't have chocolate chip cookies at home. And if we do,Tommy hides them. Because if there were,they would disappear two minutes later. Zero self-discipline when it comes to these things. And yet,with squash,I did have,well people thought and what I thought for many years- self-discipline. Because I would get up in the morning and go for my run. I would then go to school and after school,straight to the court have a session with my coach- regular session with my coach, then play games,matches,and then as you can see, went to the gym and worked out. Every single day. And I went home,did my homework and went to bed. It was a ritual.That is what athletes do: they have rituals, which is why they are able to maintain what seems from the outside,such high levels of discipline, at times superhuman's. It's not.It's rituals. Jim Loehr and Tony Schwartz: "Building rituals requires defining very precise behaviors and performing them at very specific times — motivated by deeply held values." Let me give you some personal examples. Physical exercise deeply held value for me. Has always been,and especially now when I know the research, the data on physical exercise. So I have a ritual: three times a week,for 30 and 40 minutes,I run. After that,after that,do my stretching. I know how important yoga and meditation is for me. I have a ritual and I do it. First thing when I wake up in the morning,a few deep breaths- We'll talk about it more after break. It's a ritual. Every time when I teach here, every time when I get up in front of the audience,I run before. This morning,I ran. On Tuesday,I ran twice as hard. Why? Because it releases anxiety.It helps me. Globally,generally and specifically for the class. Another very important value for me: my wife- our relationship. See the movie? Hitch? Fantastic movie. It's a very important value for me. And therefore,my wife and I have rituals. And we have two ritual dates a week. Now when people hear it,they say, "Come on! where is the spontaneity of love?" Well,there is a lot of spontaneity in terms of what we do during these dates. But the dates are set in stone. And if I'm travelling or my wife is travelling, we miss the date,we make up for it after. Why? Because if we didn't have this ritual, then we have two dates a decade,as opposed to a week. And a deeply held value for both of us is our relationship. In our modern world, there are so many conflicting demands in our time. Rituals are not just important- they are absolutely necessary. If we are to do the things that are important for us, that we care about. Other examples of rituals: writing a thank you note. Once a week,once a month.Making a gratitude visit. Once a month,once a month,once every two months. Doing the gratitude exercise on a daily basis. These are rituals that we can introduce and can actually make an important difference. We also have ritual dinners with the family as a whole. So every shabbat dinner,Friday night dinner, we have together with the family. It's a ritual.It's a wonderful ritual. During the week,we also have dates when we are together, because family is an important value to us. Now sometimes,for example, because of travel or other reasons,rituals are broken. Then you can make up for it later. They can also be negative rituals. Three hour of not checking email. I know it's hard.But it's an important ritual. And we'll talk about the effect of having our email on constantly Because when we are constantly connected to technology, we are often disconnected from the important things in our lives. We'll talk about that after break. Rituals.Introduce rituals. One of the fears that people have when they hear about rituals is they say "well that will take away from my productivity. And if not productivity,creativity." Not so. In fact,the exact opposite is the case. If you look,- yeah,this is a historical research- if you look at all the great artists,whether it's writers, the Hemingways,whether it's the Davincis- they had a ritual in their life. And the ritual was,for example, "from 7 to 10 am in the morning,I write,no matter what", "6 to 10 at night- if I am more of a night person,I paint". They had rituals.And it's because of these rituals that they were able to be creative. Because then they could think about their subject materials as opposed to million other things: "Well,maybe I should be doing something else and there are other distractions"- no! There was a ritual. That's what I did now. Almost mindless getting there- just like we brush our teeth. But when they were there,there were space, openness to be creative. Now the key is to give yourself time to create the ritual. You see,maintaining a ritual, requires some self-discipline,but not a lot. Creating a ritual requires a lot of self-discipline. Once again,because we go back to our old habits. Let's do a quick exercise. So I want you to just take your hands and just fold them. Fold your hands for a minute. Alright.Now continue folding your hands- only this time, in the opposite direction, meaning this hand below and this hand above. Yeah.Yeah. I see especially the men are not really getting it. But it's OK. Now how does that feel? Not comfortable right? Now this is such a simple movement. You know,folding hands! And yet we feel very uncomfortable- something is wrong here. And we want to go back to our folding before. Much more comfortable. We first make our habits and then our habits make us.OK. So the key is, here we are talking about a very simple change- folding hands. How much more difficult is it when we have had habits that we cultivated for many years and are much more significant in our lives? Very difficult to go...to change them.It takes time. William James,as I mentioned before, says it takes 21 days to change a habit. Loehr and Schwartz in their book,The Power of Full Engagement, talk about 30 days to change it. And of course it depends on what habit. So give ourselves 30 days to start the gratitude. Give ourselves 30 days to build the new ritual of exercising regularly. And the key is to give yourself no more than one or two rituals each 30 days. Why? Because as we mentioned earlier, it takes a lot of self-discipline to create a ritual and we don't have much self-discipline, which is why when we have a list of 10 changes that we want to introduce in our lives today,we end up doing none. We end up doing none. Because we are over-extending our self-discipline and we break down. It takes a lot of discipline to start a ritual, but once we start it,after a month when it's habituated, when it's grooved in,when the neural pathway has begun to form, then we can move onto the next ritual and introduce it, if we are ready. No more than two.Ideally one ritual. Next week in your response paper, you are going to choose a ritual, two rituals for this month that hopefully you will, you will also introduce. Because there cannot be change without behavioral change. Loehr and Schwartz: "Incremental change is better than ambitious failure. Success feeds on itself." We see it on individual level. We see it on organizational level. John Carter from the business school does a lot of work on change in organizations in the realm of leadership. What he talks about a lot is how you need small successes and then build them these successess. The Dalai Lama:"There isn't anything that isn't made easier through constant familiarity and training. Through training we can change; we can transform ourselves." 	 You know, one thing that happened to me when I was an undergraduate. It happened in my sophomore year. I didn't...I played at the Varsity team. Didn't have a good season. My sophomore year was burned out- got injured. And couldn't wait for the 1st of March. March 1 is the last,and March 2 sometimes, is the last day of the season. And I couldn't wait,because after that I could stop playing squash and focus on my studies. Then I could get a lot of work done- because with squash, we were at the courts,you know trained physically for two hours but total three hours a day. Weekends- we were travelling mostly or had matches at home. Mornings- at least two mornings a week we were lifting weights or in the gym. So it was rough.A lot of work and I said I can't wait to have the freedom without squash, especially giving that I wasn't enjoying that much at that point. Can't wait.Not to do anymore and just to focus on my classes. Catch up on all the readings and writings and stuff. March 1 came.I stopped playing completely. And instead of becoming more productive. I became far less productive. Now I see a lot of you nodding. The athletes know what I am talking about. Why? Why did I become more,or rather less productive? Procrastination- wow! Skyrocketed. Why? Because for years I've been told I'm a person with self-discipline. And I started to believe it. Yeah,I have a lot of self-discipline. Look at me! I trained so hard.I worked,you know, when I played on the circus six hours a day. That's a lot of self-discipline! And suddenly,the squash season ended. And I said,"alright,let's see this discipline at work!" And I wasn't getting any work done. Why? Because I gave up my rituals. You see,during the season,those of you who played varsity or very involved in music or club know that- when you are investing a lot in a certain organization, your time has to be ritualized. So you know you are in practice then or you are ? in these hours,or you are having meetings at these hours. And after that you have to go back and work. Because you only have two hours to do. And you want to get an OK night sleep. You have rituals.And you are productive and you are creative. And suddenly the rituals go away. You said,"OK now I'm gonna work more". The exact opposite happens.Because we have a limited amount... It was only when I came to terms of fact that I have a limits amount of self-discipline. It's only when I came to terms with the human nature- nature should be commanded must be obeyed. It was only then that I actually became productive. Because I created new rituals in my life after that. Rituals- very important and significant. The only way for lasting change. Let me talk about cognition now.The C. So we talked about affect- the emotions; we talked about behavior how important that is both acute and gradual. Let's talk about cognition. We'll talk again about cognitive reconstruction which is the gradual way of bringing about change. And then we'll talk about the fast way of bringing about change, which is the Eureka experience,the ah ha moment. So first,cognitive reconstruction. As we mentioned before,an interpretation is a neural pathway. If I interpret the world as a fault finder, the fortified neural pathway in my brain are the negative ones, these in experience and I go immediately to the negative interpretation and that gets reinforced over time. If I'm a merit finder,I would look the exact same experiences and interpret them very differently. Because I have very different neural pathways in the brain. Of course, there are consequences to how we interpret our experiences. Not necessarily that things happen for the best, but as a merit,as a benefit finder- sorry,I change that. As a benefit finder,looking more at the, at the positive with each experience. Now remember the study on the identical twins and how much genes actually matter. That only account for 55% of the variance. So here is the story that's told in many intro to psych textbooks And it's about twins who were raised in a same home and their father was abusive toward them,toward their mother. He was very often drunk,very often on drugs, and really an awful,awful childhood- the worst you can imagine. And these twins grow up in that home with that father. And they go off.They leave their home, run away from home later on in life and they reach the age of 30. And then at the age of 30,a psychologist who is doing research on twins goes and visits them. And he goes to the first twin. And what he sees there: the twin is in a relationship. He's abusing his family,very often drunk,very often on drugs. Then the psychologist is able to find him in a moment of soberness and says to the twin, "what's going on? What are you doing? What's happening here?" And the twin who knows that the psychologist is doing research on the effect of genes and the effect of upbringing,says,"you know my father. You know the kind of childhood that I endured. How do you expect me to be any other way?" And the psychologist who knows the effect of upbringing shrugs. And then he goes to the second twin. The second twin happens to be at the exact same age as the first one. He goes to the second twin- also 30 years old, walks into the house and cannot believe his eyes. Such peace.Such equanimity.Such love. Between him and his wife,and the kids. He's doing well in his career,doing well with his family. He comes back again after a while- see maybe there was a fluke; maybe he's putting on a show,but no- it's the real thing. Phenomenal family life.Phenomenal professional life. And he goes to him and says,in disbelief,"how?" Now the twin also knows that he's doing research and he says, "what do you mean 'how'? You know my father. You know how I was raised.You know what he did to us. How do you expect me to be any other way? I know how much he hurt us. How do you expect me to be any other way like him?" Same experiences.Monozygotic twins.Same genes. Radically different interpretation: one continuing the hell that he endured as a child; the other creating a heaven. All because of interpretation. What do you do with it? Well,I have no choice. This is the way I was raised. This is the model- passive victim. The other- I'm not going to be like that. I'm not going to be like my father- active agent. So much of it is a matter of interpretation. Happiness,wellbeing,as we mentioned many times before, is not so much contingent on external circumstances, not so much contingent on our status or the status of our bank account. It's contingent on our state of mind. The thing that you'll remember though is that there are no shortcuts unfortunately. There are no quick fixes unfortunately. If there were,I promise you I would've told you. If I find out next week about a shortcut, even if it's over spring break,you'll get an email from me. But I don't think there are.And very often, the hope of finding a quick fix leads to more unhappiness. Here are some examples of cognitive reconstruction. This is work done by Tomaka on whether we perceive activity as a challenge or as a threat. Because we can perceive the exact same activity and cognitively reconstruct our understanding of it. So let me give you an example. When I,after being thrown out of Cambridge, I applied for PHD programs. One of the programs I applied to is here. I was hoping to get in. And when I got in,I wanted to come back,because overall, I had a very good experience here as an undergrad, with all the difficulties and hardship, I was glad,wanting to be back. And when I got in, you know suddenly I became a little bit concerned. Because I said- you know I experienced a lot of anxiety as an undergrad. A lot of anxiety as an undergrad. And I said,I don't want to relive that again. Maybe I should go else where. And then I turned around and I said, "OK.Instead of looking at Harvard as a threat,to me,to my calm. I'm going to look at it as a challenge." And my challenge became explicitly- I mean I wrote it in my journal, wrote about it,thought about it explicitly. My goal over the six years that I got my PHD was to maintain calm Because I said to myself,"if I can maintain calm at Harvard, I can maintain calm anywhere." And I worked on it.I really worked on it. And it became a challenge and just that change helped me get so much more out of my experience here as a graduate student. Even through the hardships, the generals and the failures,and the anxiety. But overall- a much better experience. Recently I just did it. So you know,once in a while I travel right after class. So three weeks ago,I travelled to Florida. And I have a very important talk there with the company that I really wanted to work with. It was my first event there.Company that I cared about. And I think it is doing fantastic things around the world and I really want it to do well. And I felt a lot of anxiety before that talk. And I cognitively reconstructed it. I said,"OK.It's anxiety inducing, permission to be human experience, but let's look at it as a challenge." That I have this wonderful opportunity to speak to such a great company,such wonderful people. I'm going to make the best of it. Turned it from a threat into a challenge,into opportunity. And that made a big difference in my approach to it. Think about as in your life. What is it? Is it a play you want to try out for? Is it someone you want to ask out? Is it speaking up in section? This is a study those who take Psych 1 or Psych 15 have encountered that, the work of Schachter & Singer,back in early 60s.Today it would never be able to get this past the ethics committee. Just like Milgram wouldn't be able to get his study passed. Here was what they did. So they brought people into the experiment and injected them with epinephrine. Epinephrine arouses the body. It...shots of adrenaline. But they thought it was just vitamin C. They didn't know it's epinephrine. And then they were sitting in the experiment, waiting again for the "real" experiment. They were sitting in the waiting room. And while they were sitting they were asked to fill out a questionnaire. Now remember,they just got a shot of adrenaline, but they didn't know they got a shot of adrenaline. So they were sitting,filling in a questionnaire. And in the first condition, the questionnaire had very provocative questions, to say the least. For example,one of these questions was so "how many men did your mom sleep with before she got married to your dad?" That's one of the que...You know they would never be able to get away with this study today, but you know,back in the 60s.So they were answering this. Now next to them,next to them,there is a confederate- someone who they don't know is part of the study. And this guy is going ballistic. "How dare they" You know...Really getting angry. And you get angry too. And you get even angrier than the control group who went through the exact same thing, except for the fact that they didn't get the injection. So what they did was they looked, they saw their bodies is getting very aroused and they interpreted this arousal as "oh I must be really angry". And they really did get,even angrier than they would have. They got angry in the control group as well but less angry than those who were injected the epinephrine. Now second condition.Also injected. Had a questionnaire without any provocative questions. And next to them there was again a confederate, whom they thought was also doing the experiment. And that confederate found by happenstance, a hula hoop on the floor and started to shake it. You know,dance and... You know it was going crazy- they are happy and laughing. And the person who was just injected epinephrine went wild. So happy and joyous- much more happy than the control group, who were in the room with a person dancing with a hula hoop, but did not get the injection. In other words,he interpreted the raising in adrenaline "Oh I must be really happy now".And they were really happier. In other words,very often it's the interpretation- in this case, of a physical symptom that determines what we will feel. Joy or anger.Because they are quite similar. In both of them,there is an adrenaline rush. So how do we interpret a situation as an arousal or, as euphoria or as anger? Here's another study. This is done by Lee Ross and his colleagues. They asked people,college students- he's from Stanford- college students to volunteer their most generous, benevolent friends to name them and their most competitive, cut-throat friends and tell them who they are. And they contacted them to be part of the study. And what they wanted to see was their behavior in a situation in a game where you can cooperate or you can be competitive. The intervention was that these students, randomly divided into two groups. And in the two groups, there were people who were deemed very competitive or people who were deemed very generous and benevolent. And in the second group, same thing- half of the people were very generous and benevolent; half of the people were very,very competitive and cut-throat, as perceived by their friends. And in the first group,they got a game and the game was called "the community game". And the second group got the exact same game,the game where you have the opportunity either to cooperate or to compete. But instead of a community game, even though it was the exact same game, it was called "Wall Street game". And they wanted to see how many people cooperate versus how many people compete. And they wanted to see what predicts it. Well,whether the kids,the participants, were deemed cooperative or competitive,predicted nothing. Nothing.Whether or not they would compete or cooperate. What predicted everything was whether they were in the "community game" or in the "Wall Street game". If they were in the "community game", they were much more likely to cooperate. If they were in the "Wall Street game", whether they were generous,benevolent, or cut-throat,competitive, they were much more likely to be cut-throat and competitive. In other words,how we frame a situation- community,Wall Street- can make all the difference. Threat,opportunity- maybe the exact same thing. How we frame it can make all the difference. This is a study done by one...(part missing)...the quest. A very important question which is how can we raise the level of volunteerism,at Harvard and beyond And the wonderful answer that she came up with is let's get students as well as people in society at large to reframe how we look at volunteering, rather than as duty,something I have to do. Why don't I look at it as a privilege? I have the privilege of helping.And it is a real privilege. Remember the study on kindness? One of the best interventions for wellbeing. It is a real privilege to give,to help. And when people reframe this, they are much more likely to volunteer. This has implications for child rearing. This has implications,of course,for education. It has implications for society as a whole. This is a topic I am going to talk about a lot. I am going to dedicate much time when we discuss relationships. But just very briefly,this understanding for me transformed, literally transformed my relationship with my wife. It transformed... It is transforming my relationship with my friends, as well as students and colleagues. You see,we go into a relationship. Most people think that important thing about relationship is that we are validated,as we get pads on our back. Now that's important in our relationship. Surely important to be validated in any relationship, whether it's with students/teacher,whether it's with friends, certainly in romantic relationship. However,what David Schnarch talks about is that primarily if we want long-term,successful,thriving, passionate relationships,the first objective, the primary objective is to go into relationship to be known. To be known,rather than to be validated, meaning going in there and saying "OK so how can my partner get to know me even better?" Doing it gradually of course. On the first date,you don't want to reveal all your secrets. Doing it gradually. You know,thinking about it,but opening up more and more. And couples who over time open up more and more are able to sustain the relationship as well as their passion,over time. And again,I am going to talk about much more... I am going to devote two classes at least to relationships. This is going to be one of the central pillars of successful long-term relationships. Also with the students,the same applies. You know when I initially started to teach, I really wanted the validation from the students. So how can I have my students perceive me as a good teacher? I want them to like me. And you know,that's important for everyone. We all like to be liked. However,when I switched my focus- and yeah, I still want to be liked- but my main focus is I want my students to know me. I want them to know the topic that I'm most passionate about in the world. That really changed a lot.It's no longer to be validated,i.e. to appear perfect,but it was to be known as a human being, of course- permission to be human. And that actually improved my teaching a great deal and I enjoyed it so much more. Because there is so much less pressure on us in a relationship, any relationship,when we go in with the intention of being known of expressing rather than impressing. We can feel so much lighter.And the wonderful thing is, that it also makes the relationship so much healthier. But again,much more on it- because it is so important. So important topic.We talked about this a lot. How do we perceive failure,as a stumbling block? A catastrophe? Or as an opportunity? As a growth experience? And that can make all the difference. We'll talk about it after spring break when we discuss perfectionism and the fear of failure. And finally, the study that you read by Ali Crum and Ellen Langer. So just give you a little bit background about the study and I will briefly mention it,hopefully you've read it already. Ali Crum was my student for,since her freshman year. I was her TF when I taught with Phil Stone. And then I was her thesis advisor with Ellen Langer. And this was the topic of her thesis. When Ellen Langer came up with the idea for the thesis, and she told Ali and me "this is what I think would be a very interesting study", I took Ellen aside after the study- after the meeting, after Ali went away. And I told her "Ellen I don't think it's fair. I don't it's fair that Ali will do her thesis on it." Because the thesis is a very tough experiment- you'll hear about it if you haven't read about it in a minute. "If we take a lot of time from her, she's not going to get any results." Now you can write your senior thesis with getting no result, without getting a result,that's OK. But I said,"why waste her time,her senior year?" And she said to me,"will work." I said to her,"no it won't." And boy,did it work! Now I've learned since not to argue with Ellen Langer because she has ideas that you would never think would work, but they do like the study we mentioned with the 1979 "I'm going back to 1959" or with the eye test, being simply in the flying simulator improves your eyesight. Again,ideas that seem fantastic,but she proves them right. So the same happened here with this study. The study was Ali went to hotels and worked with the ladies who were cleaning the hotels. And she went to them to two groups and told both groups the importance of physical exercise. And she said, "this is,you know,something brought to you by your hotel, just to show you how important exercise is." And then she tested them on all these physical measures, whether it was body fat,blood sample- how much fat they had in their blood,weight, psychological measures- depression,anxiety,and so on and so on. And what she did was... to the one group,she just left them after all these tests. The second group, she said to them,and this was the intervention, "you know the work you are doing is actually physical exercise." And she calculated how much calories it takes to pick up sheets, to go like this and then to put it on a bed, how much calories it takes to actually vacuum. She estimated all those things and then she gave them the statistics of how many calories you should expend a day doing exercise. And she says,"what you are doing is working out actually." This was the intervention.And she went back 8 weeks later. 8 weeks later,she ran the exact same tests again. And some of the results that she found- some of them are in the article,others are not. Blood pressure decreased significantly. The fat in the blood decreased significantly. Body weight,after the 8 weeks, for the intervention group,not for the control group. Control group: no change over that period! Body weight decreased significantly. Their self-esteem went up.Depression levels went down. Anxiety levels went down.And energy levels went up. All,as a result. Now,she asked,"did you do anything differently? Or you are exercising more than you did before?" No difference between the control group and the intervention group. The only difference was perception. Now they may have worked harder.We don't know. It may be just the mind over body.We don't know. But the fact is because they reframed, they reconstructed their experience from a chore- "I have to,you know,clean 30 rooms a day" to "this is an exercise; this is good for me". That made all the difference. Physically as well as psychologically. Here is an example of acute change. This is the change that happens like a sledgehammer. And this is the Eureka experience. There's a lot of talk,a lot of research, a lot of interest in this area of the Eureka experience, the ah ha moment,the insight- so valuable,so important. And there's much misunderstanding about it. Because people think we suddenly have this insight,not so. There's a whole process involved. And the process begins with immersion. This is when we prepare for the insight.This is when we learn. Howard Gardner has done a lot of work on extraordinary individuals throughout the world. And what he found is that generally for people to become the experts in a field, to become Creative in a field, they have to have invested at least ten years of very hard work. This is the preparation. This is when you immerse yourself in the material. Look for the example of Beethoven. Those of you who listen to his music and know his trajectory: Symphony 1 and 2- Mozart.Sounds very similar to Mozart. 3rd Symphony,Eroica- it's Beethoven. He immersed himself a great deal in the music of the day- studied it and learned it.and then,after many years, was able to become Beethoven and creative, and transformed the whole field of music. Being the first of the Romantics. Second stage, after we prepare- and it takes,again,a lot of hard work, whether it's preparation that was done by Bill Gates when he was skipping class or whether it's Bill Clinton. A lot of preparation before you become an expert in the field and are able to introduce Creativity- have that eureka,the insight. Second stage: incubation. And you see all the creative individuals: after you immerse yourself in an area,you do nothing. You just allow it to marinate. For example,there's no coincidence that we get some of our best ideas in a shower. It's no coincidence that Archimedes got his best idea in the bath Mozart used to spend hours a day,just driving around Salzburg and then suddenly he would have the ah ha experience,the eureka. He said,"I could hear the symphony in a second." In a second,he could hear just about everything. OK.So that's Mozart. But you hear Shakespeare would spend hours driving around in his carriage and suddenly would have the insight, "OK,this is what the story is about." And then he would go and write it.Incubation is so so important. J.P.Morgan: "I can do a year's work in nine months,but not in twelve." J.P.Morgan understood,you know, arguably be the greatest entrepreneur this country has ever seen, understood the importance for creativity of taking time off. Today,business people,leaders don't take enough time off. Because we think it's a waste of time. We think that if we just sit there and do nothing, we are really doing nothing. Well,no.The mind works. The mind works and the mind needs it for the creative insight. In fact,leaders- and many of you will go into leadership positions- need time off more than anyone else. Because they need to be creative. They need to think about the next thing for the company, for the organization. Taking time in- invaluable. Not just for memory,also for creativity. One of the things I do when I work with, as a consultant in organizations is I just take the management on a retreat with no agenda. We are just going to hang out.And very often, within as little as half an hour or an hour,ideas begin to come out. Why? Because as the first time,they have time,no coincidence that we often wake up with a solution to a problem we had. Because subconscious mind is making connections then. Joseph Campbell: "You must have a room,or a certain hour or so a day, when you don't know what was in the newspapers that morning, you don't know who your friends are, you don't know what you owe anybody, you don't know what anybody owes you. This is a place where you can simply experience and bring forth what you are and what you might be. This is the place of creative incubation. At first,you may find that nothing happens there. But if you have such a sacred place and use it, something eventually will happen." And very often, it's during this incubation times,it's during these time-ins, during the time when you have the opportunity to reflect, whether it's on the response paper, or just hang out and listen to music. That's very often when the ah ha moment comes. The eureka experience.The one second "I see the symphony". You know,in some way, you can think about an analogy of how this happens. You can think about stage one. Or you can think about in a context of a sexual intercourse. Of making love. Preparation and incubation can be the equivalent to foreplay. The eureka experience- the orgasm. Now the important thing to understand about this process is you have to go through preparation, incubation to get to the eureka experience. In other words,you need the foreplay. Did you hear that man? You need the foreplay to get to the next level. It's important.It's part of the creative process. It's significant.It's very significant for love. It's significant also for this process. And then afterwards, after you've come up with the eureka,that's when you evaluate. You ask yourself,"is this a good idea? Does it work? Or is it just something that you know women and..." Most ideas,most eureka experiences actually end up not working. And therefore,evaluation is important. Is this really a good piece? Is this really a good idea for a story?- Shakespeare asked. Is this really a good idea for a philosophical treatise?- Descartes who spent a lot of time on his own reflecting. Is this a really good idea for a philosophical treatise? Is this a good business plan? Is this the next Facebook? Or is this just something that I had,you know, the idea that I had at 3 in the morning and someone has already done it or it won't work? Evaluation is important. There are many idea out there- not all of them work. Or to go back to our analogy of making love. So you have the first stage- the foreplay. You have the orgasm and afterwards, here's the question that you may be asking when you evaluate it. Song: Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow (Sung by The Shirelles): Is this a lasting treasure Or just a moment of pleasure Can I believe the magic of your eyes Will you still love me tomorrow So tell me now,and I won't ask again,darling Will you still love me tomorrow Will you still love me tomorrow Will you still love me tomorrow Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:So do you know who they are? Not the parents. The students,do you recognize them? The Shirelles. The Shirelles.Actually my favorite group.Really. My daughter's name,some of you know,is Shirelle. And we were looking for a name that would make sense in Hebrew as well as in English. And my wife came up with the name Shirelle, which means in Hebrew "song of God" and you have the The Shirelles. So it was just,when we found out, that was just the perfect name. You know what I love so much about it? You can see the navy tame the dance. I love that era! Just love it! Just love it. Anyway,go in YouTube and sign and do the Shirelles, you'll see other songs by them.So this is when you evaluate. We are almost done.This is when you evaluate it. Is this something that will last? Is this something that is real? A really good idea? A really good relationship? For example. After that, and this doesn't have a parallel to love-making- You elaborate. You elaborate on the ideas. So you write out,you write out the symphony. This is when you write out the treatise. This is when you make the business plan. When I put together this course,I went through this process. so I started off by preparing. So even though I had very good preparation before, you know I studied for the generals twice, teaching with Professor Philip Stone as... I was his TA,twice.TF. Even though I studied social psychology for many years and... I took time off, where I immersed myself in positive psychology material. I read the handbook of positive psychology which is a very good weapon to use. If anyone comes close,you can just throw at them. It's about this big.But very good. I read hundreds of academic journal articles. And then I took time off. And during that time off,I talked about positive psychology, but I didn't work in positive psychology. I had conversation with my wife,with Phil Stone, with my brother about this. And that's when the eurekas came.That's when the insights came. I said,"OK so this is how the course is going to be built. This is the spiral." Then I had the idea of PPEO, Post Peak Experience Order,as an idea,an ah ha moment. And afterwards,I evaluated it.I evaluated myself. I evaluated by talking to other people about it to see if it works and then I sat down and spent hours and hours and hours,writing out the lectures. All my lectures are written out.Obviously I don't read them. But in preparation, when I prepare for the lectures,I do read them a few times. That was the elaboration. That is the creative process, whether it's putting together a class, or putting together a great organization, of writing a great book or creating a great relationship. I'll see you next week.Have a wonderful weekend. 



 Chapter 11: 写日记


Student:Hi.Good morning.My name is Dana.I'm a freshman. Um,I'd like to tell you about a social program happening here at Harvard next week. My grandfather,who's Holocaust survivor, is coming to give an account of his experiences. I think it'll be a really special opportunity to hear a moving account,a personal account of history. He has spoken at other universities,at the UN. His story is quite incredible. The event will take place at 730 in the Memorial Church, a week from today - Tuesday,March 18. For more information,you can find on the Facebook event. It's called "Surviving Auschwitz: A Holocaust survivor story". You could just Google... You could just check Holocaust under the Harvard network. And it'll be great if you could come. So any questions,please find me.My name is Dana. I always send you the message.I was the creator of the event. Thank you.Thank you,Tal.(Applause) Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Hi.Good morning.So today what we are going to do is finish up the lecture on change, sum it up the ABCs- the affect,the behavior,the cognition, and then move on to a related topic which is setting goals, which will be the last topic that I'll address before we go on break.The... Last time I ended up by talking about the acute change that comes with a Eureka experience, with an ah hah,with an insight. And we talked about these five stages. And a couple of you contacted me after about this and said, "well,it's not that smooth" and it's absolutely right. This is a theory.This is an outline. When you write,when you come up with ideas, when you generate course, when you write a paper or write a thesis- some of you are thesis writers, what you do is very often mix them. So you have preparation.Then you write a little bit. And then you take a break.You have an insight. Then you go back to more preparation and on and on. This is just a general outline,which is useful in a few ways. First of all, it is useful in that we can understand by looking at it. There's no quick fix. None of the great creative artists,scientists, business people in history,created in a vacuum. Initially they became experts in their fields. They worked hard.They immersed themselves in the material. So that's the first important element to remember. No short cuts.We have to apply ourselves. Remember the secret of success? It's not just think,imagine,believe. It also has to have the component of hard work as well as passion So all the successful people... Again,the best self-help books are biographies, good biographies that show you the process, not the "five easy steps". The second important thing beyond the importance of immersion of the preparation is the significance of taking time off. One of the first thing that leaders of today, one of the things they don't have today is time. It's the thing that they need most. Time off to incubate,to reflect,to metaphorically, or literally,sit in the bath and think. That incubation,the idle time stage. Remember J.P.Morgan's quote: "I can do a year’s work in nine months,but not in twelve." And that's when the Eureka comes.That's when the good ideas come. It's actually after a good night's sleep. It's after "we do nothing for a while". It's when we in the shower. The next important thing, component of this model is the evaluation part. You know,there are many good ideas, but very few ideas come to fruition and actually become a good idea for a business, or a good idea for a scientific paper,or a book, or whatever it may be. That's when the evaluation comes and that's when the elaboration comes. And these are no less important parts of the creative process. It really is about 1 percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration.No short cuts. So to summarize: the ABCs- the affect (the emotion), the behavior (action),and the cognition (the thought). I want to talk about a technique, a simple technique- journaling that has remarkable, remarkable consequence. Just get a show of hands: how many people keep a journal or have kept a journal for significant amount of time? OK. That's great.That's great to see. We know from,from this course and research you encountered before how difficult change is. Sometimes programs that have been around for 5 years don't help. Very often interventions were millions and billions. It's about-100-billion-dollars-a year industry that change industries and organizations. Most of the interventions don't work. We know how difficult it is to change. And yet journaling? Very solid research showing how much it helps. So let me share with you a study. This was done by the person who really brought journaling into the scientific realm. So there'd been people like Ira Progoff and others who had been talking about journaling for a very long time, but it was Jamie Pennebaker from University of Texas,Austin, who brought this idea to the scientific realm and really researched it.And here is what he did. What he did was bringing participants and have them do the following: on 4 consecutive days that they came in,each day, they would spend 15 minutes- that's all,15 minutes, times for writing about the most difficult experiences. Now they knew that no one would see it. Or if they would see it, it would be without a name- completely confidential. So they were really able to treat it as their own journal. And here was the instructions that these participants got. It's a little long but worth,I think,worth reading. "Write continuously about the most upsetting or traumatic experience of your entire life. Don't worry about grammar,spelling,or sentence structure. In your writing,I want you to discuss your deepest thoughts and feelings about the experience. You can write about anything you want. But whatever you choose, it should be something that has affected you very deeply. Ideally,it should be about something you have not talked about with others in detail. It is critical,however,that you let yourself go and touch those deepest emotions and thoughts that you have. In other words, write about what happened and how you felt about it, and how you feel about it now. Finally,you can write on different traumas during each session or the same one over the entire study. Your choice of trauma for each session is entirely up to you." Simple instructions.Pretty straight-forward. If you notice,you see the ABCs in it. So it says "write about what happened", which is the behavior essentially. Write about your deepest feelings- your affect,your emotions. And write about your thought and analyze it. The ABCs in journaling. So when he did this study,initially the results came in- because one of the first things he looked at was the anxiety level, so when the results came in,disappointment. In fact,thinking of stopping the study, because this is what he found. So if we have this graph,this would be anxiety level. This would be time. He had a control group and the control group just wrote about anything that they wanted to write about. Show no change over time. So they started here,and they essentially,straight line. The intervention group,the experimental group, after 4 days of writing about their most traumatic, most difficult experiences. They started at the same point.They were randomly divided. And then a rise in their anxiety. After each of the days and during the 4 days- rise in their levels of anxiety. At this point, he was thinking terminating the study- very disappointed. Because he got from personal experience- he knew that journaling helps him and knew other people who talk about it,who swear by journaling. But then,once the 4 days are over,during the fifth, especially starting 6th,7th and on days, this is what starts to happen. Their anxiety levels went down. Learning that they reach the same level as before, they continue to go down. And the most important thing is that they stabilized below the previous level. They stabilized below the previous levels of anxiety, when he followed these participants over a longer period of time up to a year. 4 times,15 minutes- that's total of an hour. That's very little.And long lasting results. Think about it: this is also what we saw before. Sometimes,brief interventions are extremely effective. Think about the shyness study that I spoke about last week after 12 sessions of 12 minutes with women who were interested in them, these shy heterosexual men change radically. So change can come in a relatively brief period of time if we know how to intervene. And journaling is one of these interventions. Now this is not going to be one of your response paper- it's too personal. I don't think it's appropriate to assign it, but I certainly do recommend that you do it. Follow specifically Pennebaker's instructions. Doesn't take that long. Do it on 4 days,15 minutes,20 minutes each time, just write whatever comes to mind. So it was reducing anxiety over time. Other results of the study- and if you want to read much more about it, he has a wonderful book called "Opening Up". "Opening Up",by Jamie Pennebaker. They became healthier. So over the year of the study,they visited the doctor's office, compared to a control group,far less. In other words,it strengthened their immune system, not just their psychological immune system, their physiological immune system. Generally they were in a better mood. They were happier,more jovial,more benefit finders, after writing about their deepest traumas. They became more outgoing,less repressed,less suppressed. Now why is that? We talked about it often that positive emotions and painful emotions flow through the same pipeline. And if we suppress something,if we stop something, which is painful,we are very often indirectly, inadvertently also suppressing the positive emotions, whereas here they open up,quite literally open up and allow these emotions to flow through them. They are essentially opening up a clogged channel- a clogged channel through which emotions, painful as well as positive emotions normally flow. And they experience higher levels of happiness. They are more open,more generous, as we saw also when you do the gratitude exercise. Very similar results. There were gender differences,which is interesting. Now both sexes benefited from it. However,men benefited more than women. Think about it. Why do you think that is? It makes sense,if you think about it. Women benefited significantly got better, but men benefited even more. Why? Because women have,generally speaking- again, this is brush stroke stereotype- but generally speaking,women open up more. They speak more with their girl friends. They have closer friends and they talk about issues. Men still in our culture today are much more close because it's not cool to open up. It's not cool to give yourself the permission to be human, especially when others are listening. so women generally in their lives But still,even women who have strong supports systems still benefit from this exercise, which reminds me of another result of a study I mentioned months ago,the beginning of the course, which said women generally,again these are all averages, but in general, women- or rather men benefit more from marriage than women. For similar reason. Because women already have the supports system in place. Men,very often,for the first time they are with someone, who they feel comfortably enough opening up to.Again, both males and females benefit from a long-term relationship, but men generally tend to benefit more than women. For the same reason that he found gender difference here. Across cultures. This is done in China,in Japan,Mexico,Argentina, United States of course,Europe- replicated across cultures. In all cultures,people benefit from this study. Here is another study,which took the exact opposite approach. So Laura King was a student of Pennebaker, took the exact opposite approach and said, "let's study...(inaudible)... to see what happens when the individuals write about their most intensive positive experience. What she did specifically was taking the instructions from Abraham Maslow's work on peak experience. And here are the instructions. Once again,this was three times,15 minutes, so 45 minutes total on three consecutive days. "Think of the most wonderful experience or experiences in your life,happiest moments,ecstatic moments, moments of rapture,perhaps from being in love, or from listening to music,or suddenly ‘being hit’ by a book or painting or from some great creative moment. Choose one such experience or moment. Try to imagine yourself at that moment, including all the feelings and emotions associated with the experience. Now write about the experience in as much detail as possible trying to include the feelings,thoughts, and emotions that were present at the time. Please try your best to re-experience the emotions involved." Essentially the exact opposite of Pennebaker. Results? Identical. Those who wrote about their peak experiences, their best experiences,visited the doctor's office less time- in other words,it strengthened their physiological immune system and experienced more happiness. So both psychological and physiological results. Now when you look at this,some of you may be thinking that "well,what about the Lyubomirsky study?" Remember the Lyubomirsky study? That said when you write about positive emotions. Actually you feel worse. Whereas you write about negative emotions, you do feel better as Pennebaker suggested. Here's the difference. The instructions that Laura King gave were mostly, were mostly about describing and re-experiencing, replaying your experience. It wasn't about analyzing "why did it happen","how did it"... It was rather how it happen- in other words,replaying it. When the instructions- and this is the Lyubomirsky study- were analyze the experience: why it happened,how did you get there and so on and so on. That's why it had the negative consequences over time, but just replaying the experience, just writing about how wonderful it is, re-experiencing emotionally what that was- that actually let you benefit. Now the interesting question is why. Why are there such remarkable benefits to journaling? Let's understand the process,the mechanism. So there are a few things that are at play here. One of the things for example with positive emotions is that when you are replaying it,you are simply, you are fortifying the neural pathways. You replay,you imagine it again and you make it more likely to happen again. Just like when you have a river, remember the analogy from two weeks ago,you have a river, and the more water go through it,then the wider it becomes, and then the more water is likely to go into it. That's self-reinforcing nature of change. So the first thing, the first reason why writing especially about painful emotions but not just painful emotions, the reason why it helps is because of tension. We talked about ironic processing- Daniel Wegner's work from here And what he talks about is that when we suppress unnatural phenomenon,it often intensifies. Be it thinking about a pink elephant or be it suppressing painful emotions. And when we give ourselves the permission to be human, we are much more likely to release it,to let go, which is why therapy helps,which is why sharing with friends, opening up helps,which is why journaling helps. This is the whole idea of suppression or repression. The second thing that Pennebaker talks about is coherence. One of the things that he finds is that the individuals who benefit most,and he analyzes the test, confidentially of course,but he analyzes the test. Individuals who benefit most from the study are once introduced a lot of insight words,or insight phrases, meaning by the third day,they are all writing "now I see that" or "I understand that" or "it just dawned on me that" or "I realize that". Those who have many of these words or phrases in their writings are the ones who benefited the most. In other words, they've created a sense of coherence out of the experience. They make sense out of something perhaps before that was senseless. In other words,they created a story around their experiences. It's no longer dispersed,disjointed,disconnected data. Now it is a coherent whole.It's a story. Now I can deal with it. And if you think about it,what do people mostly remember? People mostly remember stories. Why? Because you remember a story, because it's one unit- it's a whole. If I give you now a collection of,you know,100 random words, it'll take you a very long time to commit to memory. I mean we all know,we all took the SATs. But if I tell you a story, you are much more likely to remember it. Maybe not word for word,but certainly,the general ideas. Because we can hold it,we can grasp it. Because it has a sense of coherence. I can deal with it.I can handle it, as opposed to some dispersed ideas,disjointed words. The exact same here. We want to feel that our lives have a sense of coherence that we can make sense of them. Pennebaker: "An artifact of our ambiguous and unpredictable world is the anxiety of not attaining completion and not understanding a simple cause-and-effect explanation for traumatic disturbances. Alas,we naturally search for meaning and the completion of events; it gives us a sense of control and predictability over our lives." Again,that's why therapy helps, because we create coherence out of experience. This is why there was far less post-traumatic stress disorder after the Holocaust after there was the Vietnam war. Because after the Holocaust,they spoke about these experiences. They created a story around it,a tragic one, but still there was a sense of coherence,as opposed to Vietnam where there was just random flashes of experiences without giving themselves permission,or without society, in many ways,giving them the permission to open up and to create a story out of it that they could hand, they could grasp. The work of Pennebaker to a great extent relies on the work of a psychologist who we mentioned on the very first day of class. And that is Aaron Antonovsky. Aaron Antonovsky whom I consider to be one of the fathers of positive psychology, if you remember,came up with the notion of "salutogenesis", an alternative to the pathogenic model- pathogenic model, the model that focuses on pathology,on sickness,on illness, where what Antonovsky said is we need to focus on the origins of health. Saluto- health; genesis- origin. And what he did specifically was the following. So he was a sociologist and he said the following- he said: look,life is tough.People go through hardship. They go through difficulties- whether we like it or not, we all in life encountered hardships. In relationship,in school,at work- whatever,whichever domain, there are hardships,there are difficulties. Life is hard.Period.We know that. However,there are some people who are able to better deal with the hardship, with the difficulties,who still, despite- they don't do away these hardships- despite these hardships and difficulties are still able to lead a full,fulfilling and overall,happy life Not the constant high- that's reserved for psychopaths and dead people. With the same ups and downs,but at a higher level of wellbeing, or of a lower level of anxiety. And he said we need to study those. We shouldn't just study the sick people, whether the sick people who are physically ill- which is mostly the pathogenic model of medicine, or the people who are unwell psychologically- schizophrenia, depression,anxiety as psychology has mostly studied. He said we need to look at the healthy people and study them, which is exactly the model that led to asking the question in 1980s with at-risk population: "What makes some individuals succeed despite unfavorable circumstances?" It was his question that made all the difference. So he did the same in his research and asked about the general population: "Who are the people who are healthy? And what is the origin of that health? What distinguishes them from other people?" And he came up with the notion of the sense of coherence that people have the sense of coherence about their lives. What that means is that, he said it has three components that he researched and identified The first component: sense of comprehensibility- I understand the world. It makes sense to me.I see.I realize.I get it. The world and event,difficulties and hardships, highs and lows make sense to me mostly. Second,sense of manageability. I can deal with it.I can handle it. I have the internal as well as external resources to deal with it as opposed to being helpless. This is a sense of efficacy,of confidence- being able to deal with the hardships that arise. So that's the second component. The third and the final component that makes up the sense of coherence,according to Antonovsky, is a sense of meaningfulness. This was not in vain- this difficulty. This disagreement with my partner was not for nothing, because we understand one another better now. And we are even close,more intimate. This failure was not in vain. I have learned from it.And I have grown from it. This mistake has reason- again, not necessarily happen for the best, but learning how to make the best of what happens. These three components are what he identified and replicated in later research as the source of mental health. To quote Pennebaker- to quote Antonovsky,a sense of coherence: "A global orientation that expresses the external- the extent to which one has a pervasive, enduring though dynamic feeling of confidence that (1) the stimuli deriving from one's internal and external environments in the course of living are structured, predictable and explicable (comprehensible,in other words); (2)	the resources are available to one to meet the demands posed by these stimuli (internal resources and external resources: I can deal with it,I can manage); and (3) these demands are challenges, worthy of investment and engagement (it's meaningful)." Look at these three. For all those who write a journal, I bet you can identify these three in your writings. This is what a journal does to a great extent. When we write and when we really write about our experiences, our difficult experiences, this is very often what comes up - have sense of coherence. I see.I understand.Make sense. I can deal with it.I can handle it. I have just found a path of how to do it. Even if dealing with it and handling it is writing a journal, and finally,it makes sense to me. It's meaningful to me now,whereas before,it didn't as much. So if you don't have a journal,you don't journal, it is certainly something that I highly,highly recommend. Let me summarize the whole change lecture: the A,B and C. The three are interconnected. In fact,if we want real change to come about, they have to be interconnected. Why? Because habit is like a flood. And it's not enough if we just create a small nook or cranny trying to create a new habit. Because flood would wash it away. What we need is the A,the B and the C. Implement these changes in our lives. And they are interconnected.So let me give you an example. Let's say someone who has low self-esteem. Low self-esteem,the C- cognition: they don't think highly of themselves. Poor self evaluation. When you don't think highly of yourself, you are more likely to be innervated,to feel down, not to be motivated,and as a result of that,that is the Affect, the emotion that you experience- not good feelings; as a result of that,we are much more likely to do nothing- in other words,the B is do nothing. Now through self-perception theory, the behavior then affects my cognition on doing nothing: I'm not dealing.I'm not coping.I'm avoiding. And that lowers my self esteem, even more my evaluation of myself,the C. And that leads to even worse emotions and so on and so on and so on,in a downward spiral, until in some cases,we reach resignation, or in Martin Seligman's words,learned helplessness. Now think of someone who has high self-esteem, high level of self-confidence. I believe in myself.I think I can do well. That leads to high level of motivation. Remember what Marva Collins does? The model that we talked about under belief, self-fulfilling prophecies- that leads to high levels of motivations,strong emotions. I'm energized. And that in turn leads to more action- the B,the behaviors. Because I act more,I do more,I cope more. I put myself on the line more. I'm much more likely to have more positive evaluation of myself, which leads to more positive emotions and on and on and on, in an upward spiral. The spiral that Barbara Fredrickson talks about in the Broaden-and-build,the spiral that Bandura talks about when he discusses self-efficacy. When we intervene,it's important to introduce, if possible,all three. And we can start anywhere. So let's take an example- someone with socialphobia, someone who is afraid to be out there,in front of people. One way to deal with it- let's begin with the A,the Affect,the emotion. One way to deal with it is through medication that goes directly to our emotions. Another way of dealing with it is meditation, which also affects our emotions directly. Some people benefit more from one,or from the other- depends on how extreme the situation is. But that's the A,the Affect. One way of dealing with it,behavior, is through what's called in cognitive behavioral therapy,exposure which is gradual exposure to stimuli that create that phobia. So initially I'll walk,you know,10 yards out of my home. Initially exposure through the imagination and I include it under behavior, because the mind does know the difference between the imaginary and the real. So gradually being exposed to it. Over time being exposed more and more, until I can go out to a mall and not experience the same anxiety that I did a year ago. So that's through behavior. Very effective- the exposure technique. And finally,you can also intervene through cognition in therapy, in dealing with irrational thoughts,psychological traps, the three M's- "Am I magnifying? The extent. Am I minimizing something? For example,my successes in working with people. Or am I making up? Imaginary scenarios. My catastrophizing events when I can have a more realistic view." So that's my thinking about it,the cognition. Let me show you a personal example of something that I dealt with So as you know,born through genes- high levels of anxiety. Very prone to it. Startle very easily- still,less today, but still to some extent today. Used to get very nervous in squash matches. Used to choke often,when I was playing important games. And that's something that in front of, speaking in front of an audience,got very nervous and anxious. And this is something that I decided that I really wanted to deal with. More than any other things that I was facing.The thing anxiety. So what did I do? Let me begin first with the C,Cognition. What I did- I analyzed the situation in my journal. I used the Bureau of Study Counsel. I learned and studied about the three M's, the irrational thoughts- magnifying,minimizing,making up,catastrophizing. And through cognition,it helped a lot. That wasn't enough. After the C,I went to the A,the Affect. And the Affect was for me physical exercise. You know,even today,this morning,at home,I ran. I exercise because it significantly lowers anyone's levels of anxiety. And I can tell a significant difference in my talks if I don't exercise. So even three or four weeks ago,David,my son was unwell and I had to take him to the doctor first thing Tuesday morning. Didn't have time to exercise.Actually felt it in the lecture. I was more nervous,more anxious.Makes a big difference. As we'll talk about,after break, it literally has the same effect as taking an anti-anxiety pill. So exercise was certainly there,work directly on my emotion. Yoga.Helped me tremendously in dealing with anxiety and lowering that level. So this was the emotional. The other thing,music.Relaxing music. You know my taste in music.I don't need to repeat it again. So actually when Tammy and I got married,we moved in together. She couldn't believe my collection of CDs. She said "you don't look that anxious". Because I had,um, "The Most Relaxing Classical Music in the World", "Music for Relaxation","Music for Dealing with Anxiety", silent quiet music- I mean,a whole shelf of the relax... But they relax me! They really help me. And finally,behavior.Introducing behavior. So it is through exposure.Initially giving a talk. Because I want to be a teacher. Giving a talk to my squash team.Giving a talk to my family. Places that were safe for me. Giving a talk to anyone who would listen. Initially small groups and gradually building it up. Exposure through the imagination. Once again, the imaginary thing and over time becoming more  confident. Another thing that for me was very significant as an undergrad here- speaking up in section. I was terrified of speaking up. And when I decided to do that,I had no doubt in my mind that everyone in section could hear my heart beat. Because it was in my head. And yet,gradually, I spoke up a little bit more and a little bit more, and then through self-perception theory, it actually got better and better and better. And I still do all these things. I still do yoga.I still do exercise regularly. I still engage in the CBT approach,the 3 M's. I keep a journal,which combines very often all three. And I listen to relaxing music.And it works.It works. Now change is not easy.It is hard.It takes time.However, that doesn't mean that the process itself cannot be enjoyable. It's not OK when I've changed then I'll be happy. The process itself is extremely,potentially,extremely rewarding Sometimes difficult.Potentially,very rewarding. The journey as well as the destination. The other important thing to remember about change- this is taken from the work of, really the person who took the psycho-analysis and transformed it into a more positive approach- Karen Horney, who I mentioned before. What she says about neurosis is that neurosis never go away completely. And when she says neurosis, she means it in the most,in the broadest sense. So for example,if I am a perfectionist, I'll always have some perfectionism in me. And we'll talk about it after the break. If I am prone to anxiety,I'll never be,you know, the Dalai Lama,unlikely.It'll always be there. And it'll always be potentially triggered by any event. And she says "that's OK.That's natural. That's human." And we need to accept it. Because if we don't accept it, then we'll be constantly frustrated. Because we want to change completely, or expect our partner to change completely. Very difficult.Unrealistic.It takes time.It's gradual. We need to also learn.And we can learn to enjoy the process. Henry David Thoreau,1840s: "I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor. It is something to be able to paint a particular picture, or to carve a statue,and so to make a few objects beautiful; but it is far more glorious to carve and paint the very atmosphere and medium through which we look, which morally we can do. To affect the quality of the day,that is the highest of arts." Again,it's the process; it's not the outcome that matters more. The outcome will lead to a spike but will very quickly to go back to our base level. It's the process of actually doing those activities, the As,the Bs,and the Cs that will lead to a happier- not perfect,not happiest,but happier life. Over time,it takes time to carve out live statue, chipping away the excess stone, the limitations and building a beautiful life. It is not only the highest of art, it is also- I would argue,a high science. And that is the science of psychology. I want to move on now.Move on and talk about... One second.Here we go. I want to talk about a topic that is related to, very much related to the whole change, to the whole change process. And that is goal setting. Now,question for you: how many people here- put your hand up if this applies to you- do you want to become more efficient and procrastinate less? If it's true for you,put your hand up. One,two,three,four,five,six...OK. Put your hand up now if you want to experience less stress and be calmer, whether it's during an exam period or not.OK. One,two...OK. Now if you put your hand up for one of these questions, you should stay. If you put up your hand for both questions, you should not only stay,you should stay awake. Because what we are going to talk about of the next two classes is the importance of goals and how they can help us deal with stress, how they can help us deal with procrastination, how we can become more efficient- not perfectly so. By the end of the two weeks, you are not going to a well-oiled machine. You are just going to be a happier human being- just think is a lot. So first of all, the topic that we'll talk about under goal setting- first, understand the theory and the practice of goal setting: the Ivory tower and the Main Street of it; second,how do we deal with stress- we'll talk about this in the next class; and finally,I don't think we have time for this, but I'm still leaving up the powerpoints there just so you can look at it,and I elaborate on it in the book. Moving from material perception to happiness perception, which is essentially about what I talked about in the last meditation of the book,The Happiness Revolution and the internal revolution that can take place. I know you don't have time for before break, but you still have the material on it. So let's begin with theory and practice. What I want to do now is convince you,very simply, to set goals,convince you that it is important and yet you are going to do it for,your response papers. You have already started doing it, but I really want to convince you,as a way of life, setting goals regularly, whether it's in business,whether in your personal life. First,I'm going to do it by convince, showing you the research on setting goals and performance and second,setting goals and happiness- how it contribute to our success in the conventional  
currency, as well as in the ultimate currency. Quite simply,people who set goals are generally, controlling for other things,more successful. Why? One of the main reasons is because what goals do is they  
focus us Very often, we are all over the place; we are not sure where we are  
going. And if we don't know where we are going, we are unlikely to get there.And the focus gets us directed. It brings forth resources- external and internal resources- that are necessary to get  
there. Abraham Maslow: "Being focused on a task produces  
organization for efficiency both within the organism and in the  
environment." Quite remarkable how goals actually work. When we set goals,when we enter something, whether it's privately but eve better- publicly, things begin to happen inside us as well as around us. Also,goals contribute to performance and well-being because they strengthen our resilience. Remember the second class when we talked about resilience? One of the things that extinguish those kids who were  
successful, despite difficult external circumstances, was the fact that they were resilient, and one of the distinguishing characteristics was they set goals for themselves. They were future-oriented. Not only thinking about the past,being "learned helpless"- learning to be helpless,but focusing on the future. Nietzsche once wrote that if we have a what for, every how becomes possible. When we have the what for,every how becomes possible.And we are much more likely to overcome difficulties and hardships, if we have a goal,a mission,something that we care about, something that we want to attain. Goals make us more successful for the exact same reason that positive beliefs do. What we are doing with goals with declaring that we believe we are going to get something. Roger Bannister declared, said that he would break the 4 minute barrier. Thomas Edison said that by the 31 of December,1879, he would generate light from electricity. Setting goals makes it more likely to come true. Because our mind does not like when the reason inconsistency between what is inside and what is outside. It wants there to be match. And if I believe in a goal and I declare a goal, the outside is likely to match that. Again,not 100 percent correlation as we've discussed, but certainly making it much more likely to happen, making us much more likely to be successful. Now what is the knapsack? Imagine the following: you go on a road trip. And you have a knapsack on your back. And you reach a wall,a barrier. What do you do? Well, there are many things that you can do when you reach that  
wall. And the wall is long and high. One way is to say,"OK,pity" and turn around. In other words,avoid that wall. Another thing we can do is take out our sledgehammer and try to break it down. Another thing that we can do before we do any of the other  
things is take our knapsack and throw it over the wall. Take our knapsack and simply throw it over the wall. Why? Because the necessity is the mother of inventions. I need my knapsack to continue.I need my knapsack. I want it.And now it's over the wall.I have no choice. But to get over that wall,whether it's by breaking it down, whether it's by finding a way around it,under it or over it. But suddenly,I will come up with solutions that I have not seen before and this is how it works. It's remarkable- how it works- for the exact same reason that when you declare a goal such as "I want to buy a computer". Suddenly you see computer ads all around you, whereas before you didn't see computer ads. or let's say you want to buy specific car. Suddenly you see that specific car all around you while you didn't see it before. Why? Because we co-create our reality through our questions to a great extent. Remember the children on the bus were there all along, but you didn't see them until I presented a goal to you which was to count the number of children on the bus And then suddenly it was so clear that it was right in front your eyes. Before,they didn't exist for you.That's what a goal does. If I declare that I have to get over the wall, and my question is "how do I get over this wall". It's not thinking about "is it possible or is it not  
possible". It's rather "how can I get over this wall". This question opens up opportunities, many of which I have not seen before. Suddenly the children on the bus are right in front of me. Suddenly a hole in the wall is right in front of me. Suddenly I see a sledgehammer that I didn't see before, right next to me. Necessity is the mother of inventions. If we ask the right questions,it opens up opportunities. The other thing that's at work here is the power of the  
word: words create worlds.Let there be light. We've seen it in religion.And there was light. Words create the world. Book of John: in the beginning was the word. But it's not just in religion.Look at this great country. The United States was declared into existence.Words have  
power. They have meaning,especially when the words are meaningful  
to us when the goals that we declare are meaningful to us, they are much more likely to come true. The connection between concept and conceive is not just etymological,it is also metaphysical. It is also real. Because when we declare something,when we save something, it is much more likely to become a reality. What words do is essentially create an image in our minds, especially when we imagine the goal. It creates an image in our mind and the mind doesn't know the difference between the imaginary and the real. And the mind wants consistency- that is what goals do. They help us create consistency. I want to read you an excerpt that, I talk about many of these things in the book so for some of  
you, this may be a repetition. But I want to read you an excerpt from W.H.Murray, who led the Scottish expedition to the Himalayas, one of those prominent,accomplished climbers of all time, climbed the Everest. Here's what he says, in his writing about the expeditions that he took: "Concerning all acts of creation there is one elementary truth, the ignorance of which kills countless ideas and splendid plans: That the moment one definitely commits oneself, then providence moves too. All sorts of things occur to help one that would not have otherwise occurred. A whole stream of events issues from the decision, raising in one's favor all manner of unforeseen incidents and meetings and material assistance which no man would have dreamed would come his way. I have learned a deep respect for one of Goethe's couplets: 'Whatever you can do,or dream you can,begin it!' Boldness has genius,magic,and power in it." Why it works,how it works- we are not really sure,but it works. Just like when you declare you are looking for computer, suddenly you see all these opportunities, the same with commitments. When we commit,things begin to happen. We begin to identify external resources as well as internal resources. Things that we didn't see before. Because my question becomes "how can I succeed". And then children on the bus or the time on the clock suddenly become visible to us. And we are able to succeed... Much more likely to succeed than before.Words create worlds. So this is about success.Very well documented. Some of your readings are related to this. People who set goals generally,controlling from other factors, are more successful,whether it's in business, whether it's in other personal lives.Goals matter. They don't just matter though for the "hard currency". They also matter for the "ultimate currency"- the currency of happiness. Goals properly understood, goals properly understood,lead to happiness. And I emphasize "properly understood". Why? Because we know that attaining goals, the attainment of goals does not in and of itself lead to happiness. Yes,getting tenure will lead to a spike of my well being, but very quickly I'll go back to my base level. Winning a lottery or making a lot of money,or getting a, or getting promoted at work will lead to a spike in my well being but it will not lead to long lasting happiness. So that's temporary- we know that. So we know that attainment of goals does not lead to happiness. What does lead to happiness? Understanding the proper role of goals. And understanding that it's not the attaining of a goal that leads to happiness, but the having of a goal that leads to happiness. So two years ago,when I taught positive psychology, a book came out by very important scholar in the area of happiness,who's the Dalai Lama's right hand man. He's translator,Ricardo Matthieu. Wonderful book on happiness came out. And we,in Williams James Hall 1,engaged in a debate- was an event for Harvard students and faculty. And we engaged in a debate- "Happiness: East and West". And we agreed on many things- as you know,I meditate regularly, and certainly believe in the power of a lot of the Buddhist psychology. However,the one thing that we disagreed on was goals. That's the one thing we disagree. Because in Buddhism,according to many of the  
interpretations- not all,many of the interpretations, the state we want to reach is a state of non-attachment. A state where we will not have something external that we want, that we desire, that we will be completely present in the here and now. Now I think it's a wonderful ideal perhaps, but what I argued and what I still argue is that it's unrealistic As human beings,I do not believe- maybe after 30 years of meditating for 8 hours a day, possible- but I do not believe that we can reach a state where we are not attached. And setting goals is an example of attachment.Because when I say I want to win this championship or I want to get an A- in this course or I want to get a job in this bank, this is a goal which means by definition that I'm attached to the outcome. If I wasn't attached,if I didn't care then,it wouldn't matter. And I think it's not only important for success, it is also important for happiness. So that's where I differ to a great extent from some of the Buddhist interpretations on non-attachment of being in a desire-less state. However,where we are similar in our understanding is the focus on the present. Goals properly understood their role is to liberate us to enjoy the present. What does this mean? Let's say you go off on a road trip. And you have no idea where you are going. You don't have a goal.You don't have a destination in mind. You are less likely rather than more likely, less likely to enjoy the journey. Because every minute you'll look left or right or ahead to see if you are not falling over the stage; whereas if you know where you are going, you have a sense of direction. You are liberated. You are much more likely to enjoy the process, the flower on the side as well. Think about your lives- periods that you have no idea, or for many of you,I know,it's happening right now. You have no idea where you are going next year. Now for a while,for most people,it's OK.It's fine. But after a while,you want to know where you are going. Because when you are immersed in something, you have a clearer sense of direction. You are much more likely to be happy, which explains why so many people,when they retire, become less happy, even though they've been dreaming of being retired for many years When they actually retire,they become less happy. The ones who are happier when they retire are the ones who actually set goals for themselves, whether it's taking a class,whether it's learning something new, whether it's spending more time with family and friends, but they have a goal, as opposed to "let's just enjoy ourselves; let's just be". We need that goal- this outcome,this future orientation, so that we can enjoy the present more. The goals liberate us to enjoy the here and now. In other words, if you think about it,the role of goals is actually means. They are means toward an end, and the end are the present experiences. Again,the goals in themselves, as we said,as we discussed,will not make us happier, whether attaining of the goal or failing to attain the goal. We'll be on the ups and downs,the vicissitudes. But if we want the base level- the base level is the here and now The present.It's the process. It's the journey that we're living mostly,not the outcome. When I start the book, I talk about thinking this rally championship would make me  
happy And it did.For 4 hours.And then back again to base level. Professors who get tenures think that is what would make them happy for the rest of their lives- the attainment of that goal. It doesn't. They go back to base level of happiness, whether they get it,or don't get it. The key is to learn,to enjoy the process. And one of the roles of the goals is to liberate us so that we can enjoy the process. Goals are means toward the present end, which is taking a lot of goal theory and turning it around. This explains why so many high achievers are unhappy. This explains why so many high achievers turn to drugs and to alcohol. By the way,today even more so than in the past- maybe today we know about it more than in the past. Going into rehab centers constantly. Coming out and going back. And we ask ourselves,"why? How could it be?" Those people who seemingly have it all. Who seemingly have it all. Fame.Fortune.Beauty.Anyone they want. The life that most people in the world dream about. How come they end up in a rehab center? How come they are unhappy? Here's the how come. You see,for years,when they climb up the ranks, when they have the dream of becoming a famous person, a person who is admired,revered, a person who can get anything or anyone almost they want, when they dream about it,they may be unhappy. But they say to themselves, "OK.I'm unhappy now,but I'll be happy when I get there." And then they get there. And they realize that there's no "there" there. They think it would make them happy,but it doesn't. And that's when the real problems begin. Because that's when they begin to experience helplessness. That's when they become resigned. That's when they go into- on the Hamburger model, that's when they go into the learned helplessness and resignation and the nihilism. Because everyone has told them that once they make it then they'll be happy. And they told themselves,"once I make it then I'll be happy". And they are not any happier for it. Yeah,initially when the fame begins, and when they start having things in their way as they always dream,of course they are happier. But then they go back to their base level. And when they go to their base level,they are suppressed, they are upset,they are disappointed, and more than anything,they are scared. Because what now? Until that point, they were sustained by their hope that when they get there, they'll be happy,but they are not happier. And they are scared.And they are lost. And they look for solutions, very often outside of the normal experiences, outside of ordinary life. And where is that? That very often is with drugs and with alcohol Because that takes us out of our normal day-to-day, ordinary lives.For good and ill. This misunderstanding prevalent and most people live that way. And they think- and this is why so many people go through mid-life crisis for example. It's not the only reason.But it's one of the reasons. Because there are many people who are pretty accomplished, who have nailed it,and then they say, "what now? Is this all the raise to it?" Yes,this is all the raise to it.And the challenge is to identify the treasure of happiness that are embedded, that are there in the it and that are there all around us. Again,happiness is not contingent on our status or the state of our bank account. It's contingent on our state of mind, of how we interpret our reality,of on what we choose to focus on And to be happier is the present that matters much more. Quote from my book: "Happiness is not about making it to the peak of the mountain, nor is it about climbing aimlessly around the mountain; happiness is the experience of climbing toward the peak." It is about having a goal. It is about having a destination in mind, and then letting go and enjoying the process. You know there are many people who talk to me about it, and again I went through the exact same experience. So OK "what is going to be the next job that I take?" "What is going to be the path that I take?" And once they take a path,it is very often they regret, "I should've taken the other path." Should've taken this job. Should've gone there.And my response to it is it doesn't matter. It doesn't,in the ultimate currency,it doesn't matter. Because,yeah,let's say I am at a job that I should have taken and I would be very successful there.Fine. I would enjoy a high when I became very successful. But that in and of itself would not make me happy. The key is to have the goal. The key is to have the commitment to whatever it is that I'm doing. Now that commitment may change every three days and that's OK. It's the having the goals,having that commitment that Nmatters. So if you chose certain path and now you regret it, remember,it really doesn't matter. You can be as happy in both paths as long as you are committed. Because when we are committed, that's when we can enjoy the journey. Doesn't matter as much what it is that we are committed to, provided of course that is moral and it's not about hurting others, which ultimately doesn't just hurt others- it also hurts ourselves. David Watson in "The Handbook of Positive Psychology": "Contemporary researchers emphasize that it is the process of striving after goals— rather than goal attainment per se— that is crucial for happiness and positive affectivity." And finally,two of the leading researchers in the field, David Myers and Ed Diener: "Happiness grows less from the passive experience of desirable circumstances than from involvement in valued activities and progress toward one goal." Here is a beautiful poem that I think captures by Gwendolyn Brooks: "Live not for battles won / Live not for the-end-of-the-song / Live for the along." It's not any goals that matter. It's not any goals that...Not all goals are created equal. And here's what we do get to a place where it's important to think about your goals. Yes,the commitment is the most important, but there are certain goals that are better than others: self-concordant goals,very briefly, because -it's in your readings- are essentially goals that are aligned with your personal interests and values- things that you care about. Doing things that are important to you. So for example,doing premed because what you really really want to be is a doctor and treat people. Studying economics because the market fascinates you. And you want to engage in work that relates to it. You are passionate about it. Joining a student organization, because you believe in their mission. Aligned with your personal interests, with your values,with your passion. These are goals that you choose freely, not goals that are imposed from the outside whether it's by someone specific or specific people, or by abstract society. And doing it out of a sense of obligation or duty. It's to do things that you care about deeply from within. In other words,these are things that you want to do, or that you feel,that you perceive that you want to do, rather than things that you have to do. My teacher Ohad Kamin,when I graduated from college, and I was debating- I didn't know which direction to go, said to me the following- he said: "here is the advice from a 50 year old." - He was 50 at the time. He said,"Identify the things that you can do. And then out of those,identify the things that you want to do. And list them down. Make a list- long or short,whatever it is. Now out of the things you want to do, identify those things that you really want to do. And then look at them,and out of those things,identify those that you really really want to do and then do them." One of the best advices that I got. Very simple.But so important. Again it's to take time aside and to think about those things. So what are my self-concordant goals? What is the interest of me? What is valuable to me? What am I passionate about? What do I want to rather than feel that I have to do? And sometimes the answers are not easy answers. Sometimes the answers are not answers that I want to hear. And the implications,the ? that are following that path may not be as pleasant initially, because it made me going against the grain. It made me doing something that yields difficulties from other people or from the environment. It may not be the most popular choice. One of the things that I talk about in the book – I think it's such an important component of happiness, is spirituality. Now the dictionary definition of spirituality is- one of the definitions is the real sense of significance of something. So if I see something as significant,as important, as meaningful,I'm having a spiritual experience engaging in it. So what is significant to me? What is important to me? And the thing to keep in mind is that it doesn't matter what I choose,what direction I go in. If I choose something that is self-concordant, that is aligned with my personal goals and mission, I will lead a spiritual life. In fact,an investment banker who goes into investment banking for the right reasons, because he/she cares about this work. Because they think it's important,because they enjoy it. Because they love dealing with numbers and having the adrenaline rush. And yes,they are people who truly enjoy it. If they go in for the right reasons, they will lead a much more spiritual life than a monk who goes into the order for the wrong reasons. And of course,vice versa. Whatever we choose,the self-concordant goals- and I truly believe it, that the world will become a better place, not just individualized will become a better place, if people pursue their passions,their self-concordant goals. Easier said than done. "Becoming self concordant is a difficult skill, requiring both accurate self-perceptual abilities and the ability to resist social pressures that may sometimes push one in inappropriate directions." And we need to engage in these activities. Why? Because life is short.Life is short.Life is...Sorry. "Life is too short to do what I have to do; it's barely long enough to do what I want to do." The sooner we start on the want-to,the better. This does not mean that you can't say to yourself like, "well my real passion is starting my own business. And in order to get the foundation,I will work as a consultant or an investment banker for two years." Nothing wrong with that. Perfectly fine. Even though it's not your passion working 80 hours a week in front of an Excel sheet.That's OK. Sometimes we need to delay gratification. The danger is that we enter this delayed gratification state for our entire lives. And that becomes the red-race (?) path. And that is what we need to be aware of. This is what we need to keep in back of our mind. I want to show you a quick video excerpt from one of my favorite movies,Dead Poet Society, where Robin Williams talks about the importance of identifying what it is that we were meant to do with our lives, in other words,our self-concordant goals. (Video clips from Dead Poet Society with captions on the screen) Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:So carpe diem (seize the day).Do what you want. 



 Chapter 12: 面对压力


Student:Hi,Positive Psychs.We are Fallen Angels. This Saturday,March 15,is our debut in Centers. We are gonna be singing with Harvard Opportunes. So We'd love to see all your positive faces there. It's Saturday,8 pm. You can get your tickets at the Harvard Box Office, from any Opportune,or from your favorite Angel. (singing PINK "Who Knew") If someone said three years from now You'd be long gone I'd stand up and punch them out They'd be all wrong I know better Cause you said forever And ever,who knew? My darling,I miss you My darling,who knew Student:I have tickets.So find me after class. They are 8 dollars.Find me. Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Carpe Diem.Seize the day. So let's continue on this path and go a little bit more in depth into this idea of self-concordance. What are some benefits of self-concordance? The first one- and there are many- the first one is the obvious one. You don't need to be a rocket scientist or even a social scientist to understand that setting self-concordant goals can potentially make us happier. Because we are pursuing something we care about, it is more likely to reinforce our enjoyment of the journey. The second thing,in addition to increasing well being, certainly connected to well being is that very often, having self-concordant goals- having goals in general, but in particular self-concordant goals, resolves internal conflicts. For example- it helps us deal with anxiety, with uncertainty,with existential questions- "What am I about? What am I doing? Why am I here?" And if you think about it,very often when we go through periods when we are not sure where we are going, where every fork in the road is about ambivalence and uncertainty that's when existential questions come up. That's when there's uncertainty. That's when very often,there's unhappiness, whereas when we know what our path is, it helps to resolve internal conflict. An interesting way to think about it is by drawing comparison to interpersonal conflicts. So here we are talking about intra-personal conflicts- within: anxiety,depression- often a result of that. But there's a lot of research on interpersonal conflicts. And I talked about briefly when I discussed practical idealism and conflict resolution. And the way to deal with the conflicts, the best way to deal with the conflicts and resolve them is to have a super ordinate goal, a goal in which both sides- both conflicting sides engage in and are dependent on one another or intra-dependent. And that resolves interpersonal or intergroup conflicts. This is work of Muzafer Sherif or Elliot Aronson. In the same way,having a goal helps to solve internal conflicts, intra-personal conflicts. Because it takes our mind away from those existential, often important,but sometimes difficult questions, especially when they persist. Away from anxiety.Away from depression. And we are focused on something we really,really want to do. Also,it increases the likelihood of success. Individuals who set self-concordant goals are more motivated- they are more likely to work hard. They are more likely to put their all in- whatever it is- that they are doing. In the long term, those who pursue their passions are more likely to succeed. Again,seems pretty straight forward, pretty self-evident common sense. But as we often said,common sense is not that common. In many ways, this increased likelihood of success when we pursue the things that we are passionate about defines the "no pain,no gain" maxim It defines it and changes it to the following maxim: "Do it better with pleasure." Now if you quote me on this,I'll deny it. If you show someone the video of me saying it, I'll say that it's my cheesy twin brother who coined it. But it's true. We do do it better with pleasure if we pursue our passions. What happens in practice- again,there's a lot of research on it. You are reading some of it; I elaborate on some of it in the book There's a lot of research that shows that when we are engaged in a self-concordant goal, we are much more likely to then continue to pursue self-concordant goals. Because it was good that we were more successful; we want more of it.It's self-reinforcing. Not just on the macro level of life goals where it does that, but also on the micro level.And what we see is a trickle effect. People who set self-concordant goals were actually doing better in areas that were not necessarily self-concordant. For instance- let's say you are a member of an undergrad A ccapella group. And you really enjoy it. In self-concordant,it's something that you believe in. Something you enjoy.Something that is interesting to you. Something you are doing because you are really want to be doing it. In other words,a self-concordant goal that will have an effect, a positive effect on other areas in your life- such as a class that you don't necessarily enjoy that much, but you are doing more because you feel that you have to, as opposed to you really really want to. So potentially identifying self-concordant goals can also help you improve your grades. Again,even though they are not related at all. Because overall,you are more motivated; you are more excited; you are more interested; and you enjoy life as a whole more in positive emotions have a trickle effect. In a way you can think about it like a candle in a dark room. Very often you don't need to light up the entire room with lights A single candle sometimes is enough to spread the light to darkened corners of the room. The same with the self-concordant goals. They have a trickle effect.Choosing to do things- doing what we want to do has also health benefits. This is one of the most important studies done in the field of psychology by,once again,our own Ellen Langer. What she did was going into old age homes and divide it- the old age home randomly into two groups. The one group got all the support that they needed- whatever they wanted they got. They asked for certain food- they got it. They asked to be helped,carrying out certain tasks- they got it. Everything was done for them. In many ways,the old age homes that many people dream of. And then the second group didn't have as good. Not everything was catered for them. They very often had to do their own things. For example,notably,they had to water their own plants. They very often had to set their own routine during the day. The service wasn't as great as the first group. They had to tell the employees if they needed something. They very often had to get it themselves. And again,they planted- they watered their own plants. And what they did was- Langer created this two different scenarios and then went back 18 months later. After 18 months,the second group, the group that watered their plants, the group that took care of their day, the group that was not catered for, in the same way as the first group- they were less likely to be depressed; they were happier; they were more energetic; more independent,physically healthier. And the clincher: 18 months later,they were 50 percent more likely to be alive. The only difference being that group that was healthier,happier, more likely to be alive,had choice. They did their own thing. They were asked what do you want to do, as opposed to being catered for,being supported. And in some way,this was too easy.There was no choice involved. And when we choose,when we do what we want to, it has implications to our well being,to our success, and to our physical health, to the point of leading to longer life. Significant difference with such little intervention. And yet,so many of the old age homes today are built around the notion of "let's catered to all their needs"- "let's do everything that they desire", "let's make it easy for them".That's not necessarily good. There's too easy- whether it's the notion that I talked about in the book, "the underprivilege of the privilege", or things are too easy,or we don't fail enough; whether it is in the old age home,or it becomes too easy, as opposed to making choices and struggling and making decisions. And it applies as we will see later also, to the notion of stress- and how important that can be in cultivating resilience and ultimately,happiness. Too easy is not necessarily good.Finally, we see this also in oppressive regimes versus democracies. One of the main reasons why people are happier under democracies- and remember,that is one of few external circumstances that can predict happiness- one of the reasons is because under democracies,people have choice. As opposed to under dictatorships, very often they are told "OK,you need to go into accounting. You need to go into engineering. And you need to go into athletics." And so on. And when you have a choice,that is a good predictor of happiness Let's shift gear a little bit. I'm going to talk about something very much related to self-concordance,but from a different angle. I'm going to talk about values in action,or in short,the VIA. Values in action,the VIA,is arguably the most ambitious, and certainly one of the most important projects within positive psychology. It was initiated by Chris Peterson in the picture, professor of University of Michigan and Martin Seligman. And what they wanted to identify was positive psychology is alternative to the DSM- the DSM, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder,which is essentially the classification of all known mental disorders. It's a very thick book,a very important document where it says- for example,it lists certain criteria and it says if a person has seven of the ten of these criteria for x period of time,that person has major depression. If the person has three of four criteria for y period of time, that person has schizophrenia. Or dysthymia.Or seasonal affective disorder. Or all of the psychopathologies that are known to us, that have been defined and classified. A very important document. Come along Seligman and Peterson right at the beginning when positive psychology came onto the scene and say, "let's create an alternative.Let's create an alternative to the DSM that will identify instead of weaknesses, instead of pathologies,instead of deficiencies, it will identify individual strengths and virtues." And they identified 24 character strengths, all enlisted,explained,described in this book. Not only did they identified the character strengths, they also created mechanisms,ways, means of measuring these character strengths. For example,an online test- one you would be taking next week- that can help you,as a first step, identify your values in actions: what are your character strengths; what are your virtues; what are you good at; what are you passionate about. The thing about character strengths-When they identified them, they made sure that they identified universal characteristics. In other words,it wasn't chosen by you know, male,white academics living in America. This was research done all over the world, cross-culturally to identify characters that are identical, whether it was in United States or Europe,Asia- China,Japan as well as the Massai tribe in Kenya and the Inuits in Northern Greenland. So this was an international research project, because what they thought- if we can find things that are common to all cultures, we will identify what is the part of human nature, as opposed to human nurture. And they admit you know that this may change over time; we may become more sophisticated in measuring them. But as a start,the character strengths and virtues, the values in action,manual and test,is an excellent start, the one what you'll benefit from a great deal, as you will see shortly. The key aspect also of these characteristics is that they have moral value. For example,the ability to run fast- it's certainly some people have this strength, you know having more fast twitch than slow twitch, having stronger muscles,for instance. It certainly is a strength,but it's not a character strength. Because it doesn't in and of itself have a moral component. You could use your strength and your speed toward moral ends, but in and of itself, it has not been valued as a moral characteristic. Similarly,in order for something to be a strength, it has to be used toward moral end. For instance- as you'll see, humor is one of the character strengths.However, if humor is used to hurt other people as it sometimes is, it cannot be considered a strength. So it's used toward moral noble ends. What values in action are in many ways- they are about self-concordant journey.Meaning: when we set a goal and outcome,we are about a destination- yes,it certainly benefits the journey. Yes,it certainly helps us enjoy by liberating us- helps us enjoy the here and now. But ultimately,what our focus is on- the end result. With values in action, our focus is on specifically,directly the journey. How can I enjoy getting to the end,my destination? Is it by engaging in a lot of learning? Is it by- which may be a character strength of mine, love of learning? Is it by engaging leading other people- the leadership is one of those character strengths? Is it by being spiritual and praying along the path- if spirituality or awe is my character strengths. So it's helping us enjoy the journey on the way to a destination we deem valuable. In other words, if we have a self-concordant end and a self-concordant journey, this is what happiness is. Both present benefit (journey) as well as future benefit (outcome). And that's why it goes hand in hand with a self-concordant goal. It's not that the self-concordant goals don't help us enjoy the journey, and it's on the VIA does not help us reach a better outcome. It does. However, when they go together, we are more likely to experience a complete experience of happiness,of fulfillment. And a lot of research has shown how identify our values in action and more importantly applying them,using them, exercising them leads to higher levels of happiness and success. And this is not just correlational; there is a causal relationship. And your exercise for next week will be to implement it, which will ultimately hopefully lead you to more success as well as more of the ultimate currency. In addition to the questionnaire that you will be taking, here are some other criteria to identify what are your personal character strengths. The first one is "is this the real me?" Do I feel authentic,most myself,when I am working in a group? When I am leading people? When I am learning something new? When I am praying? When I'm watching a comedy or telling jokes or listening to jokes? When do I feel most myself? William James,back in the 19th century: "I have often thought the best way to define a man's character would be to seek out the particular mental or moral attitude in which,when it came upon him, he felt himself most deeply and intensely active and alive. At such moments there is a voice inside which speaks and says: 'This is the real me!'" When is the real you coming out? Is it when you act bravely? Is it when you apply yourself and work hard at something? Is it when you plan- and you are prudent, careful about the future? It's a strength,too. When you are acting according to your character strengths, you feel energized and you feel motivated. It comes from within.It feels natural. Again,this is about understanding your personal nature, the constrained view of human nature, as opposed to saying "well,all the strengths are me. I can cultivate all the strengths." Yes,it's true. And we all have some of all of the strengths. However,however,we also have certain inclinations embedded whether it's in our genes, whether it's in our earlier experiences.And it's not we cannot or should not cultivate the other strength, but what we need to do is focus mostly on those strengths that are most natural to us. Because that's when we get the most bank for the buck, so to speak,in the ultimate currency that is, as well as in success,the conventional standard of success. And when we engage in those strengths,our personal strengths, that's when we grow the most,that's when we develop the most, that's when we learn the most. And again,ask yourself as in a minute you'll be looking at the list of strengths- ask yourself: when does it feel the real me? Again,it's when I apply myself and work hard? Is it when I go again the grain and act bravely? Is it when I feel the most real,the most alive? Is it when I learn something new? Is it when I go to a museum? Is it when I pray? Is it when I'm around people who are funny? When is it the most me? Here is the list. Take just a minute to look at them. They are divided into six categories. There are 24 character strengths. And I just want you to be exposed to it right now. Because,again,for your homework, you'll get a print-out of all the strengths with description. Just take a few seconds to look through them. And ask yourself: who are you? When it comes to these strengths. OK.Here's what we are going to do. What we are going to do now is I'm going to introduce you to two exercises. Two exercises that build on the VIA, that build on this questionnaire, that build on your identifying your personal character strengths. The first exercise you are actually going to be doing- that's next week,for your response paper. The second exercise is one that I highly recommend doing- for lack of time,we can't also do that. The first one- and this is based on research, done by Peterson and his colleagues- has been showing remarkable effects,remarkable consequences in terms of well being as well as in terms of success. And what it is about is building capacity. It's about identifying the character strengths and then pursuing them. Just a quick recap about what it means to build capacity. You see,when you are thinking about character strength and applying character strength,what we know is that it helps you become happier- remember a self-concordant journey. So you found doing something and constantly engaged in learning new things, if it is my personal strength or expressing gratitude constantly, if that is my character strength. Something that I'm inclined to do.I'll be happier. In other words, going back to our model from our second or third class. It will help us go from zero to the positive. However,what was found in the research is that it doesn't only help us go from the zero to the positive, it also helps us better deal with the negative. This- it does directly.This- it does indirectly. How? By building capacity. If you think about it,this is what positive psychology is about, as we've discussed numerous times. It's about building capacities. It's about strengthening our immune system, making us more resilient. Or the other analogy that we use: building a stronger motor so that we can better deal with hardships, with uphill battles,when these arise. So cultivating our VIA directly affects our journey- we enjoy it more. From the zero to the positive.And then it does something else. It also helps us build capacity so we are better able to deal the negative,with difficulties, with the hardships when these inevitably arise. So here is the process: the first step is to identify your character strengths. Seems pretty obvious. The way to do it- two steps,two sub-steps. First,to take the questionnaire,to take the test. This is the website.It will all be emailed to you plus. It's on the powerpoint.To take this test.It's 240 questions. It should take you about 30 minutes. And there are no right or wrong answers. It's not like "it's better to have awe in your top five and not so great to have prudence as your top one", which by the way is my top value. There's no good,bad.It's identifying who you are. And all of them,again,we all have all 24. You know,I think gratitude is my 19th. Now does that mean that I don't enjoy being grateful, that the gratitude exercise that I do every day is not beneficial to me? Of course it is! But much higher for me is the love of learning. So take the online test. Identify from there your ten top ones- they recommend top five. I recommend anywhere between 8 and 12. And take these 8 to 12 strengths.Read their descriptions- what they mean,what they are about,what they say about you. And then ask yourself: which ones,which five- or it could be four,or it could be six,but more or less five- which five fulfill the criteria that we discussed earlier? Namely,which are the real me? Or which ones, when I'm engaging them I feel more energized and motivated? Or which ones do I grow and develop most from? And from these 8 to 12 strengths, identify 4 to 6 that most fulfill these strengths criteria. And then choose any one of the character strengths from your final list and apply it, meaning every day for the following 7 days- and again, this will be your task for the next week- apply these character strengths. Every day for the 7 days after that- that will be up to you and hopefully you will cultivate a ritual, a habit out of it,apply the next character strength or the same character strength in a different way. So let me give you a personal example. The third time when I taught positive psychology, about half way through the semester, I started to feel a little bit enervated,a little bit tired. You know,I've done it twice before. I knew what I was going to say.I've heard myself say it before. And I thought I lost a little bit of energy, a little bit ongf in teaching. And then I went back to the VIA. And I said "well that made a lot of sense." Because my second strength after prudence is love of learning. And when I am teaching the same course, again,I wasn't learning that much new. So yes,I had new learnings in office hours. I always learn a lot- those who've been to my office hours know that I jot down ideas as we are speaking. But as a whole,in a class,I was doing the same thing. And then I said,"OK.So I am going to engage in this exercise." And for me, that exercise was let's take love of learning and continue it, even when I am teaching the same course. I'm incredibly busy even if I am teaching the same course.But I still put in an hour aside every day to learning something new, to reading something that I haven't read before. And what that did for me immediately within two days- it brought back my energy. It had a trickle effect on other areas,such as my teaching. Because I was reading something new and then it also helped me teach better- not only in terms of energy, but also new ideas,such as I introduce once in a while. Sometimes I tell you I just read this book and here is what I read. And I do it constantly even though I am very busy. Because I know that that's very important for well being, for the ultimate currency as well as for success,for performance So apply whatever it is,whatever your top strengths are consciously until it becomes a habit. And then- this will also be part of your exercise- each night describe how you use your strength on that day and then commit to the next day: what are you going to do tomorrow? Why? Because that reinforces the neural pathways. Remember when we describe something good. In many ways,the VIA to the DSM is like PPEO to PTSD. Remember that? That could be a GRE question. The analogy is PPEO- positive, PTSD- negative is the same as the VIA compared to the DSM. The equivalence- positive psychology and conventional psychopathology. So here is the second exercise after you do this. You could also apply for problem solving. Because in a sense,while the VIA indirectly builds capacity and helps us deal with problems,with difficulties,with uphills, we can also use it to affect our difficulties, to help us with our problems directly. So for example.The first step- same as the previous one. You first identify your character strengths by taking the test, by asking what are the criteria the these strengths fulfill. And then,identify any problem,whether it's in personal life, whether it's in,on the sports field, whether it's on,in a relationship,whether it's at work. Identify certain problem that you want to deal with. And then ask how you can apply one of the character, or some of the character strengths toward that problem. So for example.Let's take an example. Let's say one of the problem that I face is that I am mostly avoiding. I am afraid of taking risks.I don't put myself on the line. Because I am anxious and afraid. And love of learning is one of our strengths. What I can do is use the love of learning to deal with my phobia, my anxiety,my fear of putting myself on the line. How? By learning all I can learn about how to better deal with phobia and anxiety, which by the way is exactly what I did. Read every book I could find. Talked to any person who I thought knew about it. Used the strength and then applied it to what had been a weakness of mine. Or relationships. Let's say we are going through a difficulty in relationship. And one of my top strengths is for example,authenticity. And then how can I use my authenticity in my interactions with my partner- and that will lead to higher levels of intimacy and improve the relationship in the long run, which is exactly what I did. One of my top strengths- and applied it to cultivating more intimacy. Think of your own example. Again,this will not be a response paper, but I highly recommend and urge you to apply it. Let's put some of these ideas together. Let's look at the decisions that some of you are making right now or will be making in the future, whether it's next year or three years from now, or 20 or 40 years from now. How do you make decisions and how do you- what may be a helpful framework for identifying a self-concordant journey as well as outcome? And one of the ways to do it is by looking at the work of Amy Wrzesniewski that I do talk about in the work chapter, but still worth going over again. About work orientation. And this is going to apply not just to work. It can apply to other areas in our lives. Generally what Wrzesniewski and others found is that people's perception of work can be classified into three categories. Some people perceive their work as a job; others as a career; and yet,others,not the majority unfortunately, hopefully in the future the majority- some people perceive it as a calling. Primarily it doesn't mean that the person who perceives his or her work as a calling does not sometimes experience it as a job. However,overall,they perceive their work as a calling versus a career versus a job. And you can distinguish them by looking at the following criteria what motivates them- what keeps them going, what pushes and pulls them; what do they perceive work as- what is their interpretation of the workplace; what do they expect- what are they hoping for; and finally, what are they looking forward to in the future in that work. So people who perceive their work as a job: motivation- paycheck at the end of the month or the end of the week; work as something I have to do- it's a chore, I have no choice about it; what do they expect- nothing much; they look forward to TGIF or the holiday,the break, the end of the semester,the end of the two year period, or whatever it may be. The career perception,orientation: money and advancement are what motivates these individuals, getting to the next stage; work as- it's a race,a race to the top- this is what the rat racers mostly reside; the expectation- more prestige,more power,more money, more prestige,more power,again,advancement,attainment, achievement of the next goal; and they are looking forward to the next promotion. And this applies to different areas- it could be from PreMed to Med school to internship at the best place, to the chief,head of the department, to the chief of the hospital. It could be the race from being analyst to an associate to a partner It could be the race from being an assistant to an associate to a full professor. It can apply to any area,the red race. The lucky few who perceive their work as calling: the motivation is the thing in itself- it's about self-concordant goal, it's also about self-concordant journey; how do they perceive work- it's a mission,it's a vocation, it's what they are meant to be doing,it's what they want to be doing more than anything else in the world. They see it not as a chore,but it's a privilege to be engaged in what it is that they are doing. The expectations- their mission: a better world. And finally,what do they look forward to- more work. More work where they can actualize themselves, where they can fulfill themselves, where they can be- to use the military cliche- all they can be. Now when you look at this, it's mostly impossible to experience a sense of calling and mission and a self-concordant journey every hour of the day. Just like it's not possible to be happy and to experience constantly experience that constant high. You know,for example,teaching is my calling. I certainly experience a sense of calling- it's the thing in itself; it's what I want to do professionally more than anything else in the world. At the same time, there are elements of teaching that I don't enjoy it as much. And I do feel that I fell a little bit toward "well,this is my job- I had to do it" such as going over my lecture notes five times before each lecture. The first time,pretty interesting; you know second and third it gets a little bit repetitive. But I know if I want to produce a good and effective lecture- because that is my calling,teaching, I have to go over it many times. And I can tell the difference when I go over it once or twice versus five times. So that's important to me. But that part of my work- it is a chore,something that I have to do. However,remember the trickle effect. Because overall,there's a sense of calling. Overall,it's a self-concordant goal as well as journey. Even those parts are OK,not that bad. Or let's say you really enjoy a certain course. Let's take a hypothetical example,1504. And another hypothetical example, you happen to have a midterm in a week. You know,you may not enjoy every step of the way. You know going over the material for the second time or third time. However,if overall that experience is self-concordant, important to you,and you enjoy it, even that part will not be that bad.It will be OK, especially if you start seeing that during that process, you'll begin to make new connections, understand things,important things about yourself. Important thing also to keep in mind about calling is that well it does depend to some extent on the kind of work that you do. It depends much more on your perception of the work. So the research that I talk about in the book is about cleaners in a hospital who were able to see their work as a calling. Why? Because they interpret their work not as "I have to pick up the garbage and clean the toilet"- which they actually had to do,but more as "I'm taking care of these patients; because without my work, without me doing the excellent work,there'll be more pollution and more people hurt in the hospital. And these people who perceive- these cleaners who perceive their work had the calling orientation were much more likely to engage in a conversation with the patients in the hospital, were much more likely to help. And interestingly,many doctors from this same hospital perceive their work as a job. Now you are more likely,again- not good,not bad it is- you are more likely to find a sense of calling in your work if you are a leader versus the janitor or the cleaning person in an organization.It's more likely. However,that does not mean that the person who cleans the hospital cannot find the calling and there are many examples. And the examples that Wrzesniewski talks about in the research are things such as comparing between cleaners and other cleaners, calling versus chore,between certain hair dressers to see their work as a chore versus ones who see it as a calling. I'm sure that you had your haircut with your, with certain hair dressers who really do see it as a calling. I mean there are more psychologists than hair dressers. Or engineers.Some just see their work- "OK.I have to do this.That's all I think about." Versus thinking about a bigger picture. I'm not just a cog in a mill.I'm part of an important project. We can perceive almost any work as falling into one of these three categories. Think about investment bank- I know many of you are going into investment banking. One of the ways to perceive investment banking is "you know I'm going there.I'm going to make a big load of money. And I'm going to have a great life style." And that is an important motivation.Again, people aren't and shouldn't be impervious to material comfort. That's OK.However,people who only look at that,who only look- "OK.It's going to give me a great life style. I'm going to send my kids to the best schools- it's a good thing and I'm going to live in a beautiful neighborhood, a beautiful house and a big car- have a lot of prestige." Again,human nature.These needs- it's fine. But people who just look at these things will not be happy, or will not live up to their potential happiness in the long run. However,if I look at investment banking as that and also an opportunity to create jobs which it does do- JP Morgan and all the investment bankers who came up after him have created millions and millions of jobs that would not have existed without investment banking. But investment banking is also about lubricating the wheels of economy,that it will also provide an opportunity to then go and contribute, whether it's financially or for my knowledge to Not for Profit organizations. Because today what Not for Profit organizations need most is effective sound professional fiscal policies. Which you'll learn as an investment banker or a consultant or whatever it is. Now some people say,"you are rationalizing if you look at the investment banking as all these things." You are not rationalizing. You know what you are doing? You are simply looking at reality. Things that are real,that are there- they are not invented. But most people do not see them, just like most people did not see the children on the bus. And when you don't see something as far as you're concerned, it doesn't exist. And for most investment bankers, they burn out because they don't also- not only, but they don't also see the positive components of that work- components that certainly can fall under a calling. Again,most works, whether it's working in a hospital and taking care of cleanliness whether it's working as a medical doctor, whether it's working as an investment banker, as a teacher,as a volunteer,as monk- whatever it is, can be perceived as job,can be perceived as a career, and can be perceived a calling. And very often the choice is up to you.How do you interpret it? Abraham Maslow: "It is certainly true that many of us evade our constitutionally suggested vocations (call,destiny,task in life,mission). So often we run away from the responsibilities dictated (or rather suggested) by nature,by fate, even sometimes by accident, just as Jonah tried-in vain-to run away from his fate." What is your fate? What is your calling? What is your destiny? Just listen to the voice that suggests your vocation. Just listen to the call that guides you to your calling. What is it? You know the problem is we don't take time to think about these questions. Sometimes because we are afraid of the answer. Because what if it is teaching? You know,what about all the pressure that I feel from the outside to go and be a consultant? Or what if it is investment banking? What about the pressure that I hear from my friends and colleagues who say "well you should do something else"- more "noble" with your Harvard education. The most noble thing is to listen to that inner voice. Because when we pursue our passions. When we pursue a self-concordant goal and a self-concordant journey,that's when we come alive and that's when we also make the world a better place. Remember Gandhi: "Be the change you want to see in the world." And if you want a happier world,begin with yourself. Easier said than done. But it's probably the most important question that you can ask of yourself. And by the way,that answer may change. It may be one thing today and be something different two and a half years from now. And it may be very different 22 and a half years from now. Or 50 years from now. But asking this question- when we really, truly ask this question,we open up possibilities and see things that we may have not seen before. Our- metaphorically speaking,children on the bus. Our fate.Our destiny.Our vocation.Our calling. I think it was captured best- this whole idea by one of the students who sat where you are sitting just two years ago, also one of the cofounders of Women in Business, Ambani Carter: Instead of focusing on what we can live with, we should be thinking about what we can't live without." What can't you live without? What are you about? Our next topic related to goals, related to what we discussed last time is something that I'm sure none of you can relate to, something that is completely foreign to you and your friends sitting around you. And that is not what I expected to come up on this screen, but soon we will get to that topic,I promise. Just a few- before we move on to that very important topic, I just want to build tension.It was all planned of course. Before we get to that topic,just a few tips about setting goals. Some basic ones. First,write them down. You know writing them down is making a commitment, much more of a commitment than just saying them even. It's better to say them publicly than just to say them just to ourselves or think about them. But writing them down makes a difference. A lot of research showing the effect of making plans, lists and writing goals. Second,set lifelines. You know people talk about deadlines. Tammy,my wife says,"I think it's much more effective, much more useful to set lifelines." Dates by which we hope to achieve those certain goals. Why lifelines? Because goals, especially self-concordant goals are about inspiring us. In other words,putting the spirit inside us. They are about making our life happier. More energetic.So lifelines.Setting goals.Very important. It's not I-will-do-the-following-soonish; it's "I will do the following by the first of July,2009. Connected to this- making them specific. In other words,it's not I'm going to improve sales pretty soon, or very quickly,but rather- I'm going to increase sales 5 percent by December 31,2008. Specific lifeline as well as specific project. Also,let's say that I want to become fit. It's not just the generic "I want to become fitter"; it's rather "I'm going to run 5 miles, 4 times a week by October 15,2008." Concrete.Specific. Remember what we talked about- the most important thing about goals is not achieving those goals It's not that is what would make us happy or sad if we do or don't achieve them. The key is to energize us,to motivate us,to liberate us, to contribute as a means toward the end- the end being the journey. The goals that facilitate the journey best or goals that we actually have- not all goals,but some goals- 50 percent of achieving. It's the goals such as Kennedy set in 1962, "we will reach the moon by the end of the decade," at the time when the metal that was necessary to withstand the heat of getting out of the space and coming back to earth was not even invented. It was at a time when they did not have the technology on numerous levels to send, to land a person on the moon. And yet,he declared that goal that "by the end of the decade,we will do it." It energized NASA- some people thought he was crazy,but it energized them. And you know,after 1969, NASA experienced a real drop in their motivation, in their passion.Until essentially the mid 80s. Because they didn't have a similar inspiring goal. We see it also in the individual level. And I talked about it in the book, where people had goals and then did not achieve these goals, or achieve these goals and did not set new goals. And they felt enervated,and very often,uninspired. Stretch goals. Ellen Langer did the following research: bringing in a group of people and introduce them to highly successful scientists and inventors. And she asked them- these were you know world famous,world class performers- and she asked these individuals, these students to assess these very successful individuals and then to say,"how likely are you to reach their level?" And they assess them extremely highly. They respect them.They admire them. And they said that they are unlikely to achieve their level. And then,she brought a second group of students and she got them to look at the exact same individuals- same highly successful scientists,inventors, people who really made it with one difference. She also introduced some of the characteristics of their path toward greatness. For example,failures on the way. Insecurity.Disappointments.Hardships. And how they actually got from point A to point B. And she asked them to evaluate them. And they respected them highly,just as much. And when she asked "how likely are you to achieve those goals," - much more likely. And as we know,beliefs are self-fulfilling prophecies. No.1 predictor of long term success. In addition- the John Carlton research, in addition to constantly asking questions, it's believing that you can do well. And if we only look at the outcome and not the journey, we are much less likely to believe that we can attain this outcome. Breaking down successes. Langer said,"People can imagine themselves taking steps, while great heights seem entirely forbidden." Have a long term goal and then break it down to short term or medium term goal. Short term goal. And then make plans and then create rituals based on these plans. Step by step.Breaking down achievement. Much more likely to believe that's possible and consequently much more likely to actually get there. And now ladies and gentlemen, the moment you've all been waiting for. Something that none of you are familiar with. That you may not be able to connect to, but something that- please indulge me and I'll talk about. Stress.So I asked at the beginning of the class "who wants to experience less stress". Most of you put your hand up. Stress is a global- not American,not Western- global epidemic. By the end of this class, within 20 minutes,my hope is that we all look like this. Minus the beer if you are not 21 yet. Now the most important thing when dealing with stress- and again,it is a global,very problematic epidemic- we talk about procrastination. This is what I do when I procrastinate. I go on Google image and look for things like that. And I tell myself it's part of your work. It's important.Yeah. It's all about cognitive reframing. When dealing with stress,what we need to do is take time out. Let me share with you- again,I have talked about this before. This is from the New England Journal of Medicine, an article written by our very own,Richard Kadison. He's the head of the mental health services here. "In a recent national survey of 13,500 college students, nearly 45 percent reported being so depressed that they had difficulty functioning, and 94 percent reported feeling overwhelmed by everything they had to do.” 45 percent.You know,people, when they ask me about the class at Harvard- the fact that it's a popular class,they say, "is it because it's Harvard? Is it because at Harvard there's more stress?" No,there isn't. In fact,when the Crimson did,ask similar question, they found at Harvard 47 percent. So really,no difference. Nationwide- regardless of which university, which college you go to. This is startling.I mean,I was shocked. I know- I've been on college campus for the last 16 years. I know the situation.But I was even surprised by this number. And this is not the regular ups and downs that we go through 10 times a day. This is depression to the point of not functioning. How can we explain it? The 45 percent. By looking at the 94 percent.Let me be more specific. You see,students today clearly have too much to do. When I was a resident tutor in Leverett House, given that my PHD was also from the business school, my role was a pre business tutor. So what I did,as many of you know, was I looked at students' resumes, the CVs and helped them hone it, make it better for the recruiting process or other processes where they were looking for work. And it really amazed me that just about every year, just about every year,the resumes became more impressive. Smaller fonts,bigger titles,narrower margins. Each year,you know,very often,the older generation says- who have gone to Harvard- they say, "I wouldn't have got into Harvard today." It's true! It's unfortunate,but it's true. And I looked at these resumes and I was very impressed. And I said,"wow." Until I noticed a price that students- you,me- were paying for the smaller fonts and narrower margins. And the price is that we feel overwhelmed, too much to do,stress,anxiety. And as a result of it- and there's a lot of data supporting this error- as a result of this,higher likelihood of depression. And this is what we see on college campuses. This is what we see around the country. This is what we see around the world. Because I recently returned from China- not very different from this. I recently came from Australia- very similar to this. Try to fit in too many things in too little time: taking more courses,being part of more student organizations. And that has...That exacts a price.OK.Here she is. The psychologist- the one and only Ellen DeGeneres talking about the state of affairs. I believe some days sitcoms will be 30 seconds long. Cause that's all we need. That's all our attention span can take. Cause our attention span is short. We've all got Attention Deficit Disorder or ADD or OCD or one of these disorders with three letters because we don't have the time or patience to pronounce the entire disorder. That should be a disorder right there,TBD - too busy disorder. The weather is actually the happiest part of the news because at some point you're going to hear something positive. You're going to hear"it's a beautiful day". Or "it's going to be a beautiful day". And it's nice to take in something positive. Because we hear all these negative stuff all the time and we go out into the world so chaotic and we're not going to notice it's a beautiful day. We are moving too fast to even pay atention to that. And we need help to keep up with that pace so we put a coffee shop here and a coffee shop here and a coffee shop here. And the smallest coffee is "Tall".And I'll have a coffee and a side red bull cause I'm very very busy! I've got TBD and I'm late for yoga..Hurry hurry! Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:TBD should be part of the DSM.Really should be. We pay a very high price for this TBD. First of all,psychological health- one of the best predictors of depression.Physical health. Many doctors estimate about 80 percent of our physical ailments are result of stress,weaken our immune system. And finally,today,this year, the No.1 cause for loss of days at work globally is something related to our psychology, whether it's stress,or related emotions,feelings,experiences. It never used to be that in the past. Today it's psychological reasons. And we pay a price both in terms of our productivity as well as creativity. Think back to the broaden and build theory: when we are stressed,we are more likely to narrow and constrict, as opposed to think outside the box. All right.So what do we do with this stress? What do we do with it? Let's use positive psychology. Because it really is a problem that we want to be able to deal with, that I know,certainly,personally, it's a problem that I dealt with for very long time. So the conventional question, the traditional psychologist question was "why are so many people stressed?" An important question,good question, question that yielded many great answers but not enough. And then positive psychologists came in. And what they did was ask also the positive question. Just like when we talked about the research with at risk population. Just like Marva Collins asked a different question. Because questions open up avenues, quests that we may have not seen before. And the question became "what do those who were successful and able to lead a healthy and happy life do?" In other words,focusing on what works. In other words,focusing on tip of the stem. Because while most people are stressed,not all of them are. There are people who are able to be successful and at the same time,lead a health and happy life. What do they do? What is it about them? Here is what they do. What was found was that there are some distinguishing characteristics- two of them: they set rituals for themselves and we talked about rituals in the past; the second thing that they do- and this is what I'm going to elaborate on now- the second thing that they do,in addition to having rituals, whether it's a lot of rituals, or few rituals,depending on individual needs and differences. In addition to setting rituals, they particularly set rituals for both work and for recovery. Let me explain.Let me explain. What I'm going to say now is some thing that psychologists did not see before, because it was hidden just like the children on the bus or hidden by the first question. It was only after asking the second question that they notice this. What they noticed was that these individuals ritualize work and recovery and in essence what they found- this is the most surprising result in my mind in studying stress- is that stress was actually not the problem. We were looking in the wrong place. In fact,what they found was stress was good for us! That stress actually cultivated resilience, strength and helped us be happier in the long run. Wait a minute. What does that mean? Well,think about the following analogy. Think about the physical realm. What happens to you, what actually happens to you when you go to the gym? when you go to the gym,you lift weights. What are you doing to your muscle? You are stressing your muscle! In fact, you are carrying part of the- there are micro tears in your cells. Now is this a bad thing? That you are doing that? Not at all! It's a good thing. Because you lift weights and then two days later, you lift these weights again. And the next week,you continue lifting these weights. And on and on. You do it for a month and two and four months and six months. And after a year of lifting weights,you begin to look like me! Or maybe not.So the stress part is actually good for us. What's the problem though? When do the problems begin with stressing those muscles? It's when you lift weights,and a minute later, you lift the same weights again, and again,and again,and again,and so on and so on. What would happen to you then, if you don't take a break,whether it's a break between sessions, whether it's break,days break? What happens to you then? That's when you get injured.That's when you get hurt. That's when you actually tear or pull a muscle. That's when you become over-worked- and that has psychological as well as physical effects. That's when you are over-trained. In other words,the problem is not stress, not on the physical level,nor on the psychological level. The problem is lack of recovery. Individuals who are both successful,happy,thriving, flourishing are ones who do experience stress. However,they also pay very close attention to recovery. Just like any athlete here in this room knows that you have tapering,you have time-off before important games. You don't lift the same weights day in and day out. The same thing on the psychological level. If we don't take breaks, we will pay a price- on the physical level,we get injured; on the psychological level, we experience anxiety,ultimately,potentially depression. Stress is fine.It's good. It's exciting at times,if we also have recovery. I want to share with you now some more ideas from the book that I talked about before, "The Power of Full Engagement"- that again,I highly recommend you read. Maybe over your spring break. And what Tony Schwartz and Jim Loehr talk about, is that what we need to do is change our perception of our day from being marathon runners to being sprinters, from going on and on and on to sprinting,recovery,sprinting,recovery. That understanding,that understanding changed my life. I was a marathon runner,metaphorically- meaning at work. I used to work 14 hours a day. I loved my work.I worked extremely hard. And then I decided to get married and to have children. And I knew that things would change as a result of that. And I said,"OK.I have to compromise. I have to work less than 14 hours a day, if I want to maintain a healthy relationship with my spouse and with my kids." And it disappointed me to some extent,but I have my priorities. And I made a choice. And then I met Tony Schwartz, who within a few minutes changed my perception, my understanding of what my day can and ought to look like. And when he explained to me this,it made immediate sense. I started to implement it. And today I may not be as productive as I was when I worked for 14 hours a day,but very close to it. And I'm certainly happier. And I'm more creative than I was when I was a marathoner. And here is his suggestion- one of the things that he talks about in the book; this is a ritual that I recommend and it is: have 60 to 120 minutes,so around 90 minutes of sprint,work,concentrate,focus hard,go for it. And then after that,after you sprint, with as little distraction as possible, have 15 minutes or so of recovery. What psychologist found is essentially we are able to sprint, to focus,according to our bio-rhythms, between 60 and 120 minutes- it differs. Some people are more 60; others can do it for two hours. Average: 90 minutes.After you sprint,take 15 minutes off, whether it's for meditation, listening to your favorite piece of music; whether it's for going to the gym- can be of course more than 15 minutes,but at least 15 minutes; having lunch,having a break- and during lunch, not doing emails and being on the phone, which only adds to the stress- really relaxing with friends or by ourselves. And when we have a day that structured with sprint,recovery,sprint,recovery, that's when we can sustain, when we have a higher levels of energy, when we get the most done and when we are happiest. This is my day now. My day comprises sprint,recovery,sprint,recovery. I'm able to get so much more done. My ideal day,work day is 90 minutes,15 minutes meditation; 90 minutes,lunch; 90 minutes,work out; 90 minutes,home with family. Actually net- I work for 6 hours a day. But in those 6 hours, I get more than I would have in 10- not to mention the fact that I am happier and more creative doing it. The key when doing it is to maintain flexibility, because- again,the ideal day for me would be that. However,there are other things, you know- I travel a lot; I teach a class. During those times,let's say I'm not by my computer, writing or doing research- again, because these are important things to me. So what would I have done for example is say I want ten 90 minutes sessions, the ritual of ten 90 minutes session a week. Some of these 90 minutes sessions are on a flight and that's OK. Some of these 90 minutes sessions are at home or in my office. But at least ten,usually more than ten, 90 minutes sessions a week.And when I have it,I'm happy. I feel good.I get a lot done.Also,the ritual of yoga. Maintain flexibility there. So one of the things that are difficult for me is to introduce a 45 minutes or one hour session a day. And yoga is important for me. It makes me feel good. And I'll talk about the research around it after break. So what I started to do was breaking down yoga sessions and now part of my 15 minutes in between is 15 minute yoga,sunset For 15 minutes and then the next 15 minutes is another part of yoga practice. So I break yoga into two or three sessions a day instead of one. Again,the flexibility of ritual. And that for me works.Works very well. The key is,and I am going to end with this- the key is to attain multi-level recovery. First recovery: on the micro level. 15 minutes meditation,one hour of gym, whatever it is,a lunch break. Middle: mezo level recovery and that is a good night sleep. We'll talk about the importance of sleep- sleep is a good investment for well being, happiness as well as for you creativity,for your memory. Sleep is important.A day off during the week. Even God needed a day off.Implemented in our lives. And finally,those vacations.Remember J.P.Morgan: "I can do the work of a year in 9 months, but not in 12." Recreation leads to creation. So remember that.Remember that. Next week,we meet on Tuesday here for the midterm. Thursday- we don't have class.And remember the vacation. Take time.Enjoy it.And good luck.See you after break. 



 Chapter 13: 过犹不及


Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Hi.Good morning. Good morning.Welcome back. Hope you had a wonderful break. That you took time to recover,to de-stress. And as it happens,this is the topic today. We'll continue from where we left off before break. So remember we talked about the idea that in fact, stress wasn't the problem, which was the most interesting,surprising- but in retrospect, obvious finding of the research on stress. That stress in and of itself is actually good, just like in athletics,just like in sports, when we stress a muscle,the muscle develop- it grows. When we stress ourselves psychologically,emotionally,we grow. We become more resilient.We become stronger. It's not good for a person who's just born to be put in a sterile environment and be protected from all the stresses of the outside world, such as bacteria for example,which stresses the system. Cause it forces to grade antibodies. It's not good for us to be in a sterile environment, not physically- whether it's in a closing environment as babies, not physically in terms of not doing sports, not pushing ourselves,and also not mentally and emotionally- which is why I said you know time and again: I wish you fail more Because I think it is important to go through hardships, through difficulties. And in fact,we are going to talk about failure right after we finish up with the "Goal setting" lecture, when we discuss perfectionism, which is all about our approach toward failure. So stress is not the problem.The problem is lack of recovery. And that is what we don't have enough of in our culture- not just at Harvard. Most workplaces- there is not enough place for recovery; in most school,most universities- which explains why levels of stress translate themselves to chronic stress, translate themselves to chronic anxiety, translate themselves to depression. It's because we don't have the recovery. And we talked about recovery on the a few levels- so just a quick recap. We talked about recovery on the micro level,which is, for example,every 90 minutes of sprint,15 minutes break- instead of marathon runners,being sprinters. It's 15 minutes meditation. It's a one hour lunch, where we really give ourselves time to recover. It's going to the gym on a regular basis. It's the 15 minutes of listening to our favorite piece of music, speaking to a friend or whatever it is. The recovery on the micro level. And people who recover,who have recovered during their work day- and this is research done across the river by people like Teresa Amabile or Leslie Perlow, show how important it is in a workplace to have recoveries and people who do it are more productive, more creative and in the long term,also happier. Higher levels of job satisfaction. Recovery also on the mezzo level the full night sleep, the day off during once a week at least. Time off recreate so that we can create. And finally,the vacations.Holidays.Longer periods. You see,the other thing that happens when we are constantly on the run is that we miss the beauty that's all around us and within us. We miss the real potential for happiness,for joy, for appreciation that surrounds us day in and day out. And that's why we take things for granted. Because we don't take the time to appreciate,to savor. And it's not natural to do so. I mean can you imagine? Can you imagine a lion living in our modern world? Can you imagine a lion working at McKinsey? Or in investment banking? Or being on the tenure track? It's unnatural.You know what a lion needs to do is yawn. They need to play.It is natural. And remember what we talked about during the first couple of lectures? The constraint view of human nature- nature to be commanded must be obeyed. Our nature dictates that we need recovery. All animals do. And when we frustrate a psychological,physical need, we pay a price for it,whether it's the need for recovery or the need for physical exercise, or the need for certain vitamins or protein. We pay a price for it.And the key is, to introduce these natural recovery periods into our lives. And here is the key.The key is focus. Focus on both work as well as recovery. So remember the question that we asked before break. What makes some individuals succeed despite living in a modern world or living with ambition and success? Well these individuals know how to focus when they work,when they play. To use a cliché,they work hard and they play hard. What does that mean specifically? First of all,in recovery. They understand that quantity affects quality. Let me share with you a study that you read about in the book. This is by Nobel Prize winner, the Israeli psychologist Daniel Kahneman. Won Nobel prize for economics,turned positive psychologist. What he wanted to understand was the affective, the emotional experiences of women during the day. And what he did was ask women to evaluate their experiences right after they had that particular experience: so what was it like for you? And they evaluated their experience at work. They evaluated their experience shopping. They evaluated their experience spending time with their intimate partners,with their children, having lunch with friends,whatever it was. They evaluated how they were doing during the day. The most surprising finding of this result was that these women did not particularly enjoy time they spent with their kids. Now this result was very surprising to Kahneman. When he probed further- he and his co-authors: it wasn't the fact that the women didn't love their kids. I mean they love their kids. For most of these women,kids were the most meaningful, important thing in their lives. However,their experience with their kids often was not pleasurable- the second component of happiness. very meaningful,but not always pleasurable. Why? When they probed further,they found out exactly why. Because these women,when they were with their kids, they were not really with their kids, meaning they were on the phone at the same time, or doing email,or thinking about what they had, they did earlier at work,or what they had to do later at home. They were distracted.And they were not present with their kids. Now individually,discreetly, they may have very enjoyed being on the phone with a friend, or doing work,or thinking about work, or thinking about what they have to do later. Each discreet individual activity may have been a lot of fun. But together,it was too much of a good thing. And quantity affects quality. I mean,thinking about the following analogy. Think about the following analogy. Think about your favorite piece of music and listening to it with your eyes close and focus. So your favorite piece of music- if it's like mine, probably is Whitney Houston's "And I will Always Love You". Thank you.Yes. There's another one here with good taste in music. And you listen to Whitney Houston or whatever your favorite piece of music is. You eyes close and you focus. Then you rate it on a scale of one to ten. And of course,perfect ten: you are touched. You are moved.You are inspired. And then you listen to your second most favorite piece of music, which,if it is like mine, it's the chorus piece from Beethoven's Ninth. And you listen to it.You focus on it. And again,you rate it on a scale of one to ten. Not quite high as "And I will Always Love You", but it's a nine and a half. And then,and then,for maximum effect, you take the two pieces together and play them. And what do you get? A nineteen and a half,right? No.Not a ten.Not even a five.It's noise. This is modern life for you.This is modern life. We have activities; we have so many wonderful things in our lives But we have too many of them. And you know what that often does? It very often leads to guilt and frustration. Why? Because I say to myself: how is that possible? I love doing what I'm doing! I'm so fortunate to have so many amazing,wonderful things, people,experiences in my life. And yet I fail to be happy! There must be something wrong with me. No,there's nothing wrong with you. It's perfectly natural,just like you will not be able to enjoy the two pieces of music played together even though individually they are your two most favorite pieces of music. Too much of a good thing.Quantity does affect quality. You know,this happens constantly. It happened to me two years ago when I was teaching positive psych. It was one month into this semester, and it just didn't make sense to me: why wasn't I happy? The class was doing well. I was enjoying the class.I was doing a lot of work- consulting. I was speaking around the country about positive psychology,about Israel. I was writing and doing all the things that I love, that I care about,that I'm passionate about. Spending time with my family. And I took a step back and I realized "too much of a good thing". And as soon as I cut the activities, happiness levels went back up again. Quantity affects quality. Researchers on relationships and love, the Hendricks couple (Susan & Clyde Hendrick),say, "Love and sex are affected negatively by stress. If we can help people to simplify their lives, thus reducing their stress levels,it is very likely that people's relationships would be enriched greatly. Moreover,the positive aspects of their lives would be enriched accordingly." It affects every area of our lives,whether it's our love life, whether it's our experience with our kids, whether it's our experience doing work or reading, spending time with friends or writing. There can be too much of a good thing. So if we have lunch and we use lunch as recovery, and at the same time we are on the phone and doing email, that's not recovery; that's simply more stress. But if we have just lunch and focus on our eating and enjoy it, or just spend time with people we love,that's recovery. The key is focus.The same thing applies to work. Now it's not possible in our world today, certainly not in leadership positions which many of you already got or will assume in the future, it's not possible to eliminate multi-tasking. The key though is to reduce it. Just a quick show of hands: how many people here, while you are doing work that requires concentration, that requires focus- whether it's writing,or doing reading, or anything else that requires concentration- how many people here have their emails on at the same time? OK.It's the majority. It's most people in the West that,who do that. I used to do that too.Until I found out about this research. When you have your email on, while you are doing work that requires concentration, it is equivalent to taking off 10 IQ points.10 IQ points. Now I don't know about you; but I can't spare 10 IQ points. Now for comparison's sake,if you lose a whole night sleep, so if you haven't slept for 36 hours, your IQ is reduced by the equivalent of 10 points. Another point of comparison: if you smoke marijuana, if you smoke grass,your IQ's reduced by 4 points. So if you have- look I mean it's the choice- more fun,less IQ points.Well but don't inhale. Now I hope you didn't record that there.Here is the study. This was done in the University of London. The IQ of those who try to juggle messages at work fell by 10 points, the equivalent of missing a whole night sleep, and more than doubled 4.4 seen after smoking marijuana. Look,nothing will happen if you switch off your email for 2 hours at a time. Nothing will happen.Except for thing that will happen. You'll get another message saying, you know- the server may have been down or, so you are not sure you got my email. Right you get those emails, if you don't respond for about an hour or two, the server may have been down. But other than that,nothing will happen, if you don't respond to emails, if you don't have your emails on for two,three hours. Nothing will happen if you don't answer the phone every moment. Unless you are an ambulance driver, in which case you should have it on. But otherwise,it's fine.Switch it off. Doing less- and when you do less,you get so much more done. Creativity goes up.Productivity goes up.Work satisfaction goes up Because when we are distracted, there can't be too much of a good thing. I've spoken about so many techniques already. I speak about some more about journaling, about doing gratitude exercise,about writing a gratitude letter. We are going to talk about doing more physical exercise. We talk about act of kindness and so many things,but really the key thing is actually not to do the additional things, but to do less,or rather to identify the things that you really,really want to do with your life and do them. Because quantity affects quality. Tim Kasser,a humanistic psychologist has done research on time affluence. As we know from research, material affluence matters very little to our well being, beyond having our basic needs met, hardly even affects our well being. However,what does affect our well being is what Kasser calls "time affluence", which is the feeling that we have time, the feeling that we can savor the things that we are doing, that we are not constantly chasing our own shadow, that we are not constantly running around and feeling stressed. And people who have time affluence in their lives- that is a good predictor of well being. And that is something that we can introduce. Granted,more difficult in a place like this where there are so many appealing distractions. I'm using the word "distraction" here, even though many of these things may be wonderful,amazing,meaningful things to you. But when they all come together, it becomes unfortunately the experience of distraction. You know modern world functionality is being pitted against fun. The questions is how do you make our life fun as well as functionality, which is parellel to the present and future benefit. And what we know is that we recovery,fun recovery in our lives- listening to our favorite piece of music and only listening to our favorite piece of music and one at a time; or having lunch with friends or nice dinners in our house with our roommates. When we savor the time together, it's not just fun,it's also functional. It's also a formal recovery. The question is how do you reconcile? How do you do the 'and'? Cause remember the question that positive psychologists ask: what do people who are happy,healthy AND successful do? And once they started to ask this question, it opened up all the possibilities, all the answers came rushing in literally. And one of the answers is- focus on work,focus on recovery. You'll get much more done and much better. One of the shortest- or the shortest word- in the English language and yet people are so afraid of it, saying "no"- whether it's saying no to people who ask you something, again saying no empathically,or saying no to opportunities. Because essentially when we are saying no to some opportunities, when we are saying no to some offers, we are saying yes to ourselves. And how do we choose what do we say no to and what do we say yes to? – By simply asking what do I really,really,really want to do. Simplifying- doing less,rather than more. The key though is to reach optimum levels of simplicity. Because we don't want to simplify too much and go to the other extreme. You see,in a way,it works,as many things work, many psychological phenomenon work,in a curve linear manner. Let me explain. So let's say we have a graph where this is amount of work. And on this axis we have productivity,creativity and happiness. The way it work,the way it looks,is this way,meaning: if our amount of work is too high, that's when we experience the TBD,Too Busy Disorder. We are unhappy; we are not creative; and we are not productive. This is the burn-out. We may be productive and creative for a short while, but this is the burn-out phase. On the other hand,if we do too little,that's also not good. And very similar consequences- we are unhappy; we are certainly not productive; and we are not creative. This is extreme procrastination, which we will talk about in a minute. This is over work. What we want to find is our optimum- for each person,this is in a different place. I mean,this graph can be situated here for one person, and here for another. But each person has this optimal level. And this is where highest level of productivity,creativity and happiness is. So on the one extreme we have the law of gas essentially applied to time management. But even if we have very little work, it will take up all of our time. And then we are not productive,not creative,not happy. On the other hand,we have- the quote that I've used time and again by J.P.Morgan,that he can do a year's work in 9 months but not in 12 and the need for time-off. Where is your optimal level? Where are you? Between these two. You need to find out.It's trial and error. And it's a lot of error.And that's OK.That's how we learn. Essentially what we are about is sustainable growth. Henry David Thoreau: "Simplicity,simplicity,simplicity! I say let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half a dozen... In the midst of this chopping sea of civilized life, such are the clouds and storms and quick sands and the thousand-and-one items to be allowed for, and he must be a great calculator indeed who succeeds. Simplify.Simplify ." This was written around 1840. How much more do we need to simplify today,in the 21st century? And what we are about,again,is sustainable growth. I've used this metaphor from environmentalism. What's sustainable growth? So when a country like Senegal is now talking about sustainable growth,what does it mean? It doesn't mean that it wants to freeze progress. It means that it wants to grow,however,in a sustainable way, which means- "let's take out of the environment what can be replenished naturally through our help." The exact same thing we are talking about on the psychological level. We are not talking about a stress-free life, a life when we don't take out of ourselves, when we don't push ourselves,when we don't exert ourselves. What we are talking about when we are talking about sustainable growth is that we take out of ourselves,we exert,we stress ourselves and we replenish through recovery just enough so that it is sustainable. Because if we don't replenish,then it's not sustainable and then we begin to experience anxiety,depression,burn-out, and so on. So ask yourself.Where do I in my life need to simplify? Where do I in my life need to do more? How can I,in other words,overcome procrastination? Going back to our friend. Because this may be a little bit too extreme. You know 70 percent,more than 70 percent of college students, nationwide complain about procrastination. Not others' procrastination- their own procrastination. The other 30 percent are in denial.No. Over 70 percent. Now procrastination is associated with lower levels of happiness, weakened physical immune system, higher levels of stress and could also lead to depression. Not a very high correlation, but there is a positive correlation between the two. Fortunately though,there is a lot of research on procrastination A research that can actually help. And the research is done at the University of Carleton in Canada, where they have an actual procrastination research group. And I went,I browsed them... You can go on their website- great website, and there are great pictures there. And one of the set of the pictures is from their yearly conference on procrastination, which is remarkable. So here are some photos from that very important conference. So on the first day they all arrived and they got together for a meal. And after they got together for meal,they had another a meal because they were hungry a few hours later. And then the following day they just hang out and walked around. It was a beautiful place after all. And afterwards,they had some food together. And then,you know,food begets food so they ate some more. And at the end of the conference, they really felt like they got,they accomplished a lot. You know they practiced what they preached. So they had a photo of all of them together right here. Actually they do fascinating work and very important work on procrastination. So here are some of the results, some of the important results for overcoming procrastination. First,most important one,simple,easy to implement and it works It's what they call "the 5 minute take-off". One of the things they found with,just about all procrastinator is that they have a misunderstanding of what it takes to act. Procrastinators,the world over,think that in order to act, they first need to be inspired. I have to feel the vibes,before I start the EC 10 problem set. I really have to be inspired before I write this paper for Lit and Arts. But you know what? That's not how it works. That's not how it works. It's not about first changing our attitude,i.e. becoming inspired and then acting. It usually works the other way around. We first need to start acting,behavior, that will then affect our attitude. Because very often once we start,we are on a roll. Or sometimes,a few times, during let's say the 90 minutes sprint, we have to restart the 5 minute. I don't know if you,if you've noticed this,but if you haven't, it's something that I really like to share with you. By now,you know we know one another pretty well. Or you know me pretty well. So if you don't know this,I think you should know this. I am extremely,extremely passionate about positive psychology. I love positive psychology. But you know,sometimes when I get up in the morning, and I write something about positive psychology or prepare a lecture on positive psychology or read positive psychology,sometimes I don't feel like starting You know,this is actually a very big surprise for my wife. And it only came up just a couple of years into our marriage, while I told her, "yeah,sometimes I really don't feel like getting up." She said,"how's that possible? I mean,you know you get up in the morning and then you go to your computer,and you start to work on it." Yes,exactly! Because I know the 5 minute take-off. And sometimes within a 90 minute session, I have to do another 5 minute take-off because my energy levels are drained. So either take time off to recover, or if I think that is just procrastination. I say it's OK.For 5 minutes.Just push. And very often that 5 minutes start an upward spiral. Not through the mind.Not through the heart. Through action. The 5 minute take-off- probably the most useful technique for overcoming procrastination. Just do it- in other words. Reward yourself.You know businesses are built... can you imagine a business without a reward? Well,think about the self ink. You are in certain business.You want to motivate yourself. So reward yourself. OK,I'm going to do three hours of work now, and then allow myself a three hour meal in the dining hall as a reward. Or I'm going to really work hard on Friday so that Saturday I can go out. That's OK.You know,we do it in any other place. But no again, we say no I need to be inspired for this problem set. Yes,sometimes. But sometimes we are not that inspired. And rewards are certainly legit and important. Go public.Throw your knapsack over the wall. Tell people what you are going to achieve. This is exactly what I did in 1995 when I first decided to teach workshops in psychology. I was working in Singapore at that time. I called up my boss,Mr.Hugh Hang. And I said to him,"Hugh,I want to teach workshop. Or two day workshops- one on leadership, one on the pursuit on excellence and success." And he said,"that's great. I think it will really help the employees. When do you want to do it by?" I said,"July 1." This was January of 1995. And he said,"fine." Put down the phone,I called in... I was here at the time.I called him up. And as soon as I put down the phone,I said,"Oh.Shoot. What have I just done?" One of the best things that I ever did. Because I went public with it. I threw my knapsack over the wall. And I had to start working,whether I liked it or not. And that helped me overcome procrastination. Because I knew that I wanted to teach at some point. But when I went public with it, in a sense,it "forced" me to do it. And I gave the workshop. It wasn't the best workshop in July of 1995,but I did it. And I worked extremely hard toward it.The team approach. The best predictor,for example of maintaining an exercise regime is doing it with other people. Now this is not right of everyone. Some people- exercise is something that they want to do by themselves, just with their Discman or just by themselves at home. And that's OK.However, for most people,doing it with other people actually helps. It also helps to write down- this is a commitment. Write down goals.Divide and conquer. Break down the achievement. Remember Langer's research? Write these things down. Make a list.It actually helps most people. And finally,permission to recreate. What that means is give yourself permission to be human; give yourself permission to procrastinate at times as well; give yourself permission to recover. You are not a machine; we are not machines. We need to understand the constraint of you of nature. Because if we don't understand it,if we don't respect nature, nature is not going to respect us, and we are going to pay a price,in terms of our productivity, our creativity as well as our happiness- the ultimate currency. I want to show you a quick excerpt by my favorite,Ellen DeGeneres. And this is the end,the end of her show on procrastination, which I highly,highly recommend you. You can find it in any of the video stores around here. So here she is- the end of her show after she's talked about procrastination for over an hour. The one and only. Ellen DeGeneres "Here and Now": We are doing all these things to squeeze things together so we can save time. And I don't know about you but I don't have anymore time. I have less time. But let's just say we could save up a whole chunk of time and set it aside. You know what we'd do with it? Nothing.Nothing at all. Isn't that the point to be able to do nothing at all? But we're not guaranteed that later on chunk of time. All we have is HERE AND NOW and that's why procrastination feels so right! Procrastination is not the problem. It is the solution.It is the universe's way of saying "Stop.Slow down.You move too fast.Listen to the music. Whoa whoa,listen to the music (lyrics of a song by Doobie Brothers "Listen to the Music")." What im trying to say is if you leave here tonight and you don't remember anything else that I've said, leave here and remember this: PROCRASTINATE NOW. DON'T PUT IT OFF.Thank you." Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:OK.Out of everything that I teach, this lecture this topic is the most personally meaningful to me. Because in many ways,my shift,my journey from perfectionism- and it's an on-going journey, a journey that goes on right now as we speak- my journey from perfectionism to the pursuit of excellence is the most intimately linked with my journey toward becoming happier. So I want to share with you some personal things that I've been through. Some of them are in my book. But I want to expand this- the story beyond squash. So I started playing squash at the age of 11, which was after giving up an illustrious, passionate career as a basketball star. It was about that time when I realized that NBA was not going to be a... was not going to happen for me. I started playing squash and almost immediately started playing every day. My days revolved; my life at that time revolved around squash. I would wake up at 5 am in the morning and go for a run. Would come home.Have my food.Go to school. Right after school- it was next to the squash, not far from the squash court,I would go to the squash court, play with my coach,work out in the gym,play games. And then,late afternoon, I would go home,do my homework and then go to sleep. For years,this was my pattern. It was difficult.It was tough,especially the interval training- work out with my coach. However,it was nothing- the toughness was nothing compared to the emotional difficulties at the time. I was constantly,constantly with almost no recovery,no reprieve I was constantly stressed. There was always a knot that I felt in my stomach. It was real,as if there was a ball here. The knot was especially pronounced, especially difficult after a poor performance in practice when it didn't match to the standards that I had for myself. And it was almost never matched. The knot was at its severest during tournaments. Very often,I would get to a final of an important tournament and choke and lose the final, even at times when I was supposed to win- on paper at least. That knot didn't go away. When it went away,it was only for very short periods of time. But I knew that the knot would go away. And I was sustained by the belief,by the vision, by my personal mission at the time of winning the Israeli National Championships. I said to myself, "if I win this,then I'll be happy; then I'll be calm. And it's all going to be worth it." Why? Because no pain,no gain. In 1986,I reached the final of Israeli National Championships and I lost. I was devastated.I was devastated, even though I was the youngest player to ever reach the final, even though I'd beaten players higher than me on the rankings. I was devastated for months. But still,I went on- no pain,no gain. And I continued to train and work hard. In 1987,I met the same player in the final and this time I won. I was ecstatic,joyous,happier than I ever remember myself being And at that moment,I said to myself,"it all paid off. It was all worth it. Because now I was ready to be happy." I went out with my friends and family,and we celebrated. And about 4 hours later after the celebration,I went back home. I went back home,and wanted to,before going to sleep, just for one last time savor,enjoy that feeling of joy, of ecstasy,of pure bliss that I earned. And I sat down on my bed and I suddenly,without any warning, the exact same feeling,the exact same emotion, the exact same knot returned. And I started to cry- not the same tears of joy that I cried 4 hours earlier,but tears of pain and helplessness. The knot returned. And I thought,"well,maybe it's the high follow... It's the low following high." And I hoped it would go away. But it didn't go away. And a few weeks later, I realized what it was and this time I really nailed it. I understood. I would have to be the world champion to really be happy. I graduated from high school. I had two years before I had to enlist in the military. And I took off to England. In England,I lived in London and joined Stripes which was the squash club in Ealing Broadway, where Jansher Khan,world champion at the time used to train. Because I said,"this is my goal; this is my objective." And I would come in every single day and watch Jansher Khan and imitate him. Whatever he did,I would do. So he ran 7 miles each morning; I would ran 7 miles each morning. He would go to the court,work out in the gym; I did exactly what he did. He played numerous games with other players; I would play numerous games with other players. And he had training partners. And I wasn't good enough at that time to be his training partner, so I would just hang out there and once in a while, once in a while when there was no one around,he would say, "come,Tal,let's play a little bit." And we would play. And I went back to the drawing board after each game with him. And I would play harder and train harder. Just what he did- because to be like him, to be the world champion,I would have to train like him. And I trained harder and harder.And I got better and better. And after about six months, I became good enough to be one of his training partners. And after a year,I became his regular training partner. I would travel with him around the world. Wherever he would play tournaments,we would train before. However,injuries began to creep in.Why? Because Jansher had built up from,literally the age of three, he built up his stamina,his fitness; and for me,it was all or nothing. Either I trained like an amateur or don't train at all, or I trained like the world champion. And my body couldn't handle it.And I started injuries. Initially,mild injuries- ankle.So I took two days off. Or my knee started hurting a little bit- you know,three,four days off. Back was a bit uncomfortable.Nothing serious. I would go back to training.All or nothing. Either I don't train at all or I train like the world champion. Cause I want to be like him. And I continue doing that for 4 years.Injuries on and off. Getting more and more severe,until the age of 20.21- the doctor told me,"you have a choice. You can continue training and playing professional squash, but then you are risking your back and you probably need to be operated on very soon. Or you can give up professional squash." with an extremely heavy heart,I gave up professional squash. I gave up my dream,applied to college,and came here. Here,the exact same pattern continued- only before it was squash; now it was academics that became the central part of my life. The knot returned,very shortly after freshman week. Because every paper had to be perfect. Every word had to be read and summarized. Every assignment had to be executed immaculately. All or nothing.And I was unhappy. And it was on one day during my sophomore year. I was a 23 year old sophomore,where I said to myself, "enough.Enough.Here I am,in such a wonderful place, with such wonderful students,such wonderful teachers. Such a privilege.And I am so unhappy. I don't think it is something that is external. I must understand myself better. And it was at that point that I decided to switch my concentration to philosophy and psychology wanting to understand the meaning of a happy life, wanting to understand how I could become happier and why I was not. And it was very quickly that I realized, that I understood that I was engaged, or suffering from something that is so common, so pervasive and so misunderstood. Perfectionism. This is what I want to talk about today, and what I want to talk about in the next lecture. This notion of perfectionism and what the research has to say about it. Now there is no perfectionist, there is no one person who is on this extreme, nor there is a person who's on the excellence extreme which I will depict later. The key is how do I become happier and I become happier by being less and less perfectionistic. Perfectionism is not about giving up ambition. I'm as ambitious, or possibly more ambitious than I was at age of 16 or 23. It's about having a different approach toward the journey of our life, toward each step of the way- specifically,toward failure. So what I'm going to talk about is first of all, define it so that we understand it. Because it is misunderstood. I'm going to talk about characteristics. We are going to get to that next time only. The characteristics- what it means to be a perfectionist? Then I'm going to talk about the consequences. And then,how it's possible to be both successful and happy. Again,the question we ask in goal setting lecture, the question that essentially we are asking throughout the class- it's not about giving up success; it's not about giving up the conventional currency.But it's about also enjoying the ultimate currency more importantly. Because it is the ultimate currency. Then we understand what is the source of perfection; where does it come. Because if we understand where it comes from, we are more likely to be able to overcome it. And then,most importantly,how do we overcome it? And how do we help other people overcome perfectionism? And again,not giving up their ambition,not giving up hard work, not giving up pain of failure- because that's inevitable. But simply have a more rational,a more helpful, a more empowering approach toward failure. OK.So let's get to work.I need a volunteer. I need a volunteer,but before you put your hand up, it's a very special kind of volunteer. I need a volunteer who is a very good artist, a volunteer who can draw really well. No pressure here,right? A volunteer who can draw really well and who will actually come here and demonstrate. Now remember it takes courage to come up to the stage but courage is not about not having fear; it's about having fear and going ahead anyway. So do I have a volunteer? I have a volunteer. Won't you come up? (Applause) OK.Hi.What's your name? Vincent. Are you a VS concentrator? (Inaudible) Don't tell me you are an economics.OK. What are you? Biology.OK.Good.(Laugh) All right. So biology- you have to draw many diagrams. That's why I was... Well in Ec you also have to draw diagrams I guess. So it would've been fine,too. All right.Are you ready for this? You still have the opportunity to going sit down. You are sure you want to... (Vincent: But I want to conquer my fear.) All right! Yes,good. All right.Are you ready for this,Vincent? You sure? All right. Here's what I want you to do now. I don't know if I want to do this to you though,you know. All right,but I am going to do it to you anyway. I want you to draw here on this part of the board. I want you to draw... Are you ready for this? You sure? OK. I want you to draw a circle. Take your time.Take your time.No hurry. You can also erase and put back. But I want to you draw- give your best shot here- I want you to draw a circle. We have half an hour.No hurry. The meantime we'll meditate.(Laugh) Yeah. I didn't mean it literally half an hour, but...OK.(Laugh) Use it as a time-in.That's all. A circle! Vincent,well done! Ooh hoo! (Applause) You are not done yet. Hey hey! Woah woah woah woah. Don't run away on me now. OK.So I'm putting a line here. What I'd like you to do here is draw something else. So you are ready for it? I would like you to draw another circle, but this time as you drew it, as you think you drew it when you were 3 years old. 3 years old.Again,take your time. Metaphorically speaking, take your time and draw a circle as you think you drew it when you were 3 years old. All right.Yeah. And that's when his parents said,"Van Gogh was reborn." Can you draw it as you drew it when you were 3 years old,please? (Laugh) I know there are many talented people here, but we want some real...OK.All right. Still,very talented 3 years old.OK.All right. Good! Good! (Laugh) Now I want you to do one more thing. I want you to draw here another circle,this time as you drew, or you think you drew, or you tried to draw when you were 1 year old.OK. Still a very talented 1 year old,but a 1 year old nevertheless. Good.All right.Now Vincent,I... The one thing that I really don't like doing teaching- I love to teach, but the one thing that I really don't like doing- is grading. I hate grading. But you know,as a teacher,you have to do it. You have to do it. So I'm going to have to grade you. I'm sorry.(Vincent: It's OK.) I'm sorry. I look at this entity,and what I see is, what I see is,is a circle actually! You know if I put a line in the middle, you know more or less that equidistance from that point, if I put a point here- it's actually very good! Very good,Vincent!Well done! I'm proud of you. Well done! You passed.Yes,exactly! (Applause) But you know,I can't help but looking beyond,and I get here. And you know,I am trying to find the right word here and what would the right word be? Disaster,maybe? I mean,Vincent,please! This is not a circle. And this? I'm sorry.I'm sorry.I told... It's tough being a teacher.You know it's... But I have a question for you,Vincent. I have an important question for you. Could you have gotten to drawing a real circle without having drawn hundreds and thousands of failed circles? In other words,could you have gotten here without being here? Absolutely not.There is no other way to succeed. Thank you very much,Vincent.(Applause) Learn to fail or fail to learn- there is no other way. You know I'm a psychologist and you know what a psychologist do? Psychologists watch people. And I watch you every time you come to class. And I watch you very very closely. And you know what I see? Again,this takes a lot of insight,experience,wisdom, but you know what I see every time when you come into the class? That you all are very good walkers. Terrific. You know in fact what you do is you come in and you lift you left leg and then you just, your ankle slightly is moved up and very gracefully- as you put it down,you lift your back heel. You did it so beautifully.So elegantly. And you know what? You pretend as you are not even noticing it. So the same time,you are talking to a friend. Some of you are even chewing gum at the same time, just more than Einstein could do. And then you lift up your back leg and again,so gracefully, just you know,you bend your knee slightly.This action. And you move your arm at the same time.It's a beauty. And then you just swing your hips slightly. You know just this action. Have you considered a career of modeling? I mean really! Nice! And you put here. Then you are talking.You are smiling. And you pretend as if there's no effort involved. Well done! Yes! You deserve it! Absolutely! But here is the question: could you have gotten to this stage, to being such good walkers without having fallen hundreds and thousands of times? Not even Vincent could have reached that stage without it. It's not possible.Learn to fail or fail to learn. And as kids,we know it. And you know, we fall down and maybe we cry a little bit if it hurts, but we get up again. We fall down.And we laugh. In fact,let's see an example.Someone is learning how to walk. [Video] Man: Go get mommy. Go get her.Go get mommy. Woman: Good job! Good job! Man: Hey Sophie! Woman: Can you walk back to daddy? Oops. Give me your hand. Man: Slow down.Slow down. Woman: (Laugh) Yay! So hyper. Man: Go get mommy.Go get mommy. Go get mommy.Go get her. Man: Take your time,baby! Take your time,baby girl! Mommy: Slow down. Are you excited that you can walk? Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:The joy of learning.The joy of... Where is it? Where is it? Where does it go? Well it goes away because we come to a certain age when we begin to understand other people are watching us, and then the image kicks in. "I'm not going to try,because what if I fall?" Or "I'm not going to ask her out,because what if she says no?" "Oh no no no.I'm not going to try for this play, because hardly anyone gets that." "Oh I'm not going to share, because what if they don't like what I have to say." Or "everyone is so smart.I'm not going to speak up." And we avoid instead of coping. And that affects our self esteem,our confidence,our resilience, our happiness levels in the long term. Or we go on a date.And everything has to be so perfect. So perfect. Forgetting how we learn how to eat in the first place. Learn to fail or fail to learn. This is not actually concrete recommendation for your first date. I don't think it will work. But remember,remember how we learnt. There is no other way.No other way to grow.No other way to learn. No other way to become more resilient,happier,more successful. Have I said this before? This is my personal mantra that I repeat to myself over and over again, especially after failures,especially before doing things when I'm afraid to do it,when I said "well,maybe I shouldn't do." Because what happens if...? Well,what happens if? what happens if is the worst case scenario: I learn. Worst case scenario: it hurts. But I'll bounce back up again. You know I bounced back after Rina. I can handle anything. "Wei Ji",the Chinese character for crisis, has two parts: the first part is danger- this is the top character; the bottom character,opportunity. There is danger of failing. And wherever there is a crisis, ,to learn and grow. Elbert Hubbard: "The greatest mistake a man can make is to be afraid of making one." I want to show you an example of a person who had made mistakes, who failed time and time and again. In fact,I was thinking of labeling that person or giving him the position of ultimate failure. And here is why. At the age of 22,already- just started a new job,lost it. Didn't leave- he lost it. At the age of 23,decided to go into politics because he wasn't doing well in other jobs. But didn't make it there either. And then he went back to business,didn't make it there. At the age of 27,it was just too much for him. Just too much- and he collapsed. Had a nervous breakdown. But then got up again after falling. And at the age of 34,7 years after his nervous breakdown, he ran for congress- wasn't even close. Didn't make it. At the age of 39,hasn't learned the lesson yet. And he was defeated again for congress. And then he said,"let me go try higher." At the age of 46,what a loser! Doesn't learn,does he? OK. Yeah.It's OK.Learn to fail.Fail to learn. But I mean you are 46 years old,c'mon! Give it up already. At the age of 47,he tried to be nominated for the Vice President Didn't learn.Didn't make it. So at the age of 50,he tried again for Senate. And then he almost gave up.But he didn't. And at the age of 51, he became the 16th President of the United States. Arguably the most important President this country has ever had. And through it all and he talks about it, "it was difficult to fail."Of course he had victories. You know I simplified the process.It was difficult to fail. He did not enjoy failing.But he persisted it. Because he understood just like every other successful person throughout history has understood and understands: there is no other way to learn; there is no way to grow. Mohandas Gandhi,the subtitle of his book is "My Experiments with Truth". He talks about experiments,trying and failing, trying and failing and succeeding, and failing again,and trying again. Those of you who know his story in South Africa- he tried exactly or very similar to what he later tried in India. In South Africa,he failed miserably. But then he moved over to India and tried there. And there after many failures, he succeeded in bringing independence to his country. More than anyone understands the importance of failure. "Freedom is not worth having if it does not connote freedom to err." And when he talks about "freedom to err", he means it on the national level: being self-determined,free people. He also means it on the individual level. My favorite author,my favorite writer is George Eliot. Her name was Mary Anne Evans,changed to George Eliot, because at the time,when she published, mid 19th to late 19th century, it was very difficult for a woman to be published. George Eliot had this to say: "The important work of moving the world forward does not wait to be done by perfect men." Or women.If you read her texts, it is the closest to perfection as I've ever encountered, whether it's Middle March or Daniel Deronda, which is my favorite book. Just do it.Just act.Be prepared to fail. I want to show you an example. Once again,a video of a person who understands his imperfections and yet gives himself the permission to fail. Here he is.A TV presenter. [Saturday Night Live] Bennett Brauer:That's right. Bennett Brauer here with another commentary. Didn't think the suits would have me back perhaps. Thought they'd have my dairy-air replaced by one of cookie store mannequin. Well maybe I'm not "the norm". I'm not "camera friendly",I don't "wear clothes that fit me", I'm not a "heartbreaker",I haven't had "sex with a woman", I don't know "how that works", I guess I don't "fall in line",I'm not "hygienic". I don't "wipe properly",I lack "style", I have no "charisma" or "self-esteem", I don't "own a toothbrush",or "let my scabs heal", I can't "reach all the parts of my body", when I sleep I sweat profusely. But I guess the "powers that be" will keep signing my pay check at least until Jack and Jane K. Viewer start to go for the remote so they can get back to commentators who don't "frighten children", who don't "eat their own dandruff", who don't "pop their whiteheads with a compass they used in high school". Thank you,Kevin. Kevin Nealon: Bennet Brauer,ladies and gentlemen. Bennett Brauer: Thank you. Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:In sports,Bay Brooth,at the time, the most home runs out of the any other player. Held the record for many years. How many people know that he also topped the league 5 years. 5 years he topped the league in strikeouts. Very often the case.Very often the case. That the most successful athletes are also ones who have failed the most. And if you reach for the stance, you have to be prepared to fail many times. Or the greatest of them all. (Michael Jordan) Before he learned how to fly, he learned how to walk. Before he learned how to walk,he learned how to crawl. And he failed many times. Here he is in his own words,the one and only,Michael Jordan. Michael Jordan:I've missed more than 9000 shots in my career. I've lost almost 300 games. 26 times, I've been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed. I've failed over and over and over again in my life. And that is why I succeed. Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Ha.Michael.(Laugh) I love Michael Jordan. People remember his game winning shot that made him famous. Was at North Carolina while he shot with the buzzer and they won. Do you remember that he had 20, or did you know that he had 26 game winning shots that he missed? Well he failed time and time and again,which is why he succeeds. There is no other way. Thomas Edison.Remember "I failed my way to success"? Ten thousand times failures before he invented the light bulb. But he didn't see them as failures. He succeeded in showing what doesn't work. Anita Roddick,founder of the Body Shop,passed away last year. Did fantastic work. Changed business world in many ways, to make more compassionate businesses. Failed time and time and again,and succeeded. No other way. Harvard Business School. She was a graduate student here in the psychology department when I was an undergraduate. And I remember when she was working on her dissertation, cause we had the same advisor.I was working... We were both working with Richard Hackman. And her work was,still is to some extent,in hospitals. And what she wanted to understand was how can you help eliminate or at least reduce failure rates in hospitals.Why? Because medical errors cost millions and billions dollars a year. And much more importantly, many people lose their lives as a result of medical errors. So she wanted to understand this phenomenon and how you can reduce it. And she was working with Richard Hackman who's been doing work for decades on effective groups. Those of you who have taken his class,psychology 501,know him. If you haven't taken his class,put it on the top of your list. And he's done work on teams,on groups for many years. And what he found was there are certain conditions that if they are put into place in an organzation, the group is more likely to perform well. Certain conditions. And what Amy Edmondson wanted to do in her dissertation was show that when hospitals implement Richard Hackman's advice, when they have the conditions that Richard Hackman talks about, such as a clear,engaging goal for the team,for the group, such as an enabling team structure, such as supportive organization,such as effective coaching. When a group has these conditions in place, it will not only perform better, which is the research that Hackman illustrates for decades, they will also commit less medical errors. Very important research.So she did this research. It took her very long time. She went to the field,studied at hospitals. And after a long time- again this was on the 15th floor in William James Hall, I remember that- she one day got her results. Entered all her data into SPSS,pressed the button. And there was significant statistical difference between the two groups. The group that implemented Hackman's conditions and the group that did not. Eureka! She was happy,ecstatic.Years of work. And she runs to Richard's office,and says to him, "Richard,I got it! Here are the results." He says,"let's see.I want to see." So he looks at it. He says,"Amy,that's fantastic! It's very significant result. It wasn't just borderline.This is great! Fantastic!" And he looks at it,and he says, "are you sure these are the results?" And she said,"yeah! They are highly significant!" He said,"are you sure? Did you enter the data again and test it?" "Yeah,Yeah!" She is very methodical,very hard working. She said,"yeah,I did!" So he said,"you know,these are certainly significant but they are significant in the opposite direction." Meaning the hospitals that implemented these conditions that Hackman talks about were actually making more medical errors. Again this ? the phase of decades of research. Never specifically about medical errors, but so many other related topics. And he said,"well,a result is a result.Reality is reality. We have to go back to the field and understand why. We have to understand this phenomenon." So she had to go back to the drawing board- tired,enervated, didn't understand what happened,went back to the hospitals, and in almost no time,realized what the issue was. These hospitals,or groups within these hospitals that made more mistakes did not actually make more mistakes. They reported more mistakes. In fact,the other groups,who on paper made less mistakes, actually made many more mistakes. However,they did not report them. Now how did she know it? Because there are certain mistakes that you cannot hide. It is very difficult to hide a corpse,for example. So the mistake,the real major mistakes that were made, they were out,and these groups had to report these. It' not that they made less; they made more mistake but they didn't report. And then she changed the focus of her research to the notion of psychological safety. Psychological safety is the feeling,the experience, the space that you feel in your workplace,in your organization where you are safe talking about errors and mistakes, where you feel safe falling down and getting up again. And these organizations with their own psychological safety, they performed better. And again,this was in 1999,a lot of research done by her and people around the world, showing how groups,organizations with their psychological safety with their employees don't or are not afraid of whistle blowing or not afraid of falling down of making mistakes. These organizations are significantly more successful. These are learning organizations with the employees constantly learn and grow. Or you learn from your mistakes and then the next time you are able to do better. Very significant,very important research, whether it's for leaders, whether it's for parents- many of you will be future parents. Would you have this psychological safety for your kids, while they feel comfortable talking to you about things that they did not do well,about failures. Because if they do feel comfortable,they are much less likely to enter into this perfectionistic fear of failure. And they are much more likely to be happier as well as successful This is a story about Thomas Watson, founder of IBM,one organization that he invented and reinvented itself numerous times- continues on the daily basis. And that's why it survives. So there was an employee at the beginning when IBM was founded, when they were making type writers, an employee made a strategic error. And the error was that he actually lost IBM a million dollars and a million dollars at that time for IBM was a lot of money. So the next day,after he made that mistake, he comes to see Thomas Watson,the founder, and gives him a letter. Thomas Watson opens the letter and reads it and looks at the employee and says,"what is this?" He says,"sir,it's my letter of resignation." "Why resignation?" "Sir,I just made a mistake that cost your organization a million dollars. I don't want...You've been great to me. I don't want to put you through this difficult experience of firing me. So I'm resigning." Thomas took the letter and tore it and said,"fire you? Fire you? I've just invested a million dollars in your education and I'm going to fire you?" Now whether this story is exactly true,or almost true, it's still a story that circulates around IBM, and a story that creates a certain reality in IBM, a reality that says "you have to try". There is a similar story in Johnson & Johnson, one of the most successful companies in the world, where General Johnson, one of the two founders with his other brother, also called Johnson- just why it's called Johnson & Johnson. So Jim Burke was an upcoming employee in Johnson & Johnson, made a mistake that cost the organization a lot of money was called in the morning by General Johnson who was a very austere,very tough man. And Jim Burke comes in,you know all shivering and scared. He comes in and walks into General Johnson's office. General Johnson walks from around his table, goes to him and says, "congratulation,Jim Burke! Congratulation!" "Sir,I just made a mistake,sir." "Yes,I know.This is the only way to learn. The more mistakes you make,the more successful you will be. Congratulations!" And Jim Burke was all happy and about to walk out. And General Johnson says,"oh,just one more thing,Jim: if you make the same mistake again,I'm going to fire you." But again,a story that goes around Johnson & Johnson about the importance of failure. Jim Burke,by the way, became the most successful CEO of Johnson & Johnson. Thomas Watson- I'm almost done,one minute,almost done: "If you want to increase your success rate, double your failure rate." We talked about this research.We talked about this research, the origins of the genius- the most successful, the most successful artist, the most successful scientist in history are also the ones who have failed the most times,who have the most duds. It's the Edisons.It's the Davincis. It's the Michelangelos.It's the Marie Currie. The most successful scientist and artist have also failed the most. And finally,Klam who did the... Jane Klam who did research on people's success in dieting or people's success in starting an exercise regime, what she found was the most successful people, people who have been able to persist are people who have failed on average 5 times before. So they have been on 5 diets and  haven't succeeded. The fifth one,or the sixth one- I'm successful and I'm able to sustain it. The same with the exercise regime. Learn to fail or fail to learn. See you on Thursday. 



 Chapter 14: 完美主义


Student:Hello.Last lecture we learned about recovery. At time,away from work really relax. I'd like to invite you to join a traditional and time-tested recovery period,Shiva,the Jewish sabbath. This Friday night, Howard Hill and Hervat at Harvard invite you and your friends to Shiva dinner at the Mac for Shiva 1000. Come for free dinner at the deck down Mac with all of your friends, where our very own professor Tal Ben-Shahar will be speaking. Doors are open at 630,and dinner starts at 7. Please RSVP for this really fun event at Shiva1000.org. Everyone is invited,so please sign up. Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Hi,good morning. I was also asked to announce on behalf of the Women Softball team They would've been here and they would've announced themselves, but they are at the game and that was delayed. There's a game this Sunday and...Saturday.Saturday and Sunday. And also for the men's baseball team. So come out and cheer.And one more announcement. They can't hear.Sorry.Yeah.Yeah. All right.So May 21,9:15- day for the final. Um hope you can make it. OK.It's a Monday.All right. So every year when I teach the perfectionism lecture, something happens. So the first year, I remember I actually forgot my computer at home. Second time,the projector didn't work. And this year I forgot my power, my power for the computer at home. So hopefully it will last the entire semester. If not we'll just have to deal with the imperfect scenario, but that's OK. I think it must be something subconscious. Because it's too much of a coincidence that every time something happens. Walk the talk. So where were we last time? Last time we talked about how you learned how to walk. We learned about how you learned to draw circles. And all through failure.As Thomas Edison said, "I learned my way...I failed my way to success." And we saw it with top athletes, whether it was Babe Ruth or Michael Jordan. We saw it with top business people, whether it was Thomas Watson,IBM or Anita Roddick, founder of the,of Body Shop. We see it with artist and scientist- the most successful ones are also the ones who failed the most, and these are the ones who understand the value and the importance of failure. I guarantee you then none of them enjoy failing. Failing hurts; it's disappointing at best; it's frustrating; it's embarrassing often. However,people who ultimately succeed recognize that value of failure and learning from it. There's a wonderful book that came out recently by one of my mentors- he taught at the business school for a few years; he is a professor at University of Southern California- Warren Bennis. And Warren Bennis wrote a book, which is called "Geeks and Geezers". And in the book, he compared very successful leaders who were young, early 30s and older generation leaders, people who have really made it, big time leaders who are now in their 70s and 80s,sometimes 90s. And he compared these two groups: the geeks- the young ones; the geezers,the older ones.And what he found was that there were a number of very interesting and meaningful differences between the generations of again highly successful late 20s or early 30 years old and highly successful older individuals. One of the most notable differences was that work... work life balance, which is very important for the late 20s,early 30s. Very important- they talked about it constantly, whereas for the 70 80 90 year olds, it was almost a foreign concept. What does that even mean? Why? Because they were at work usually 24/7. All of them in that sample were men. And the women were at home,taking care of the life part. So there was a work life balance- where they were doing the work, the wives were doing the life. Whereas the younger generation,men and women in that sample and talking about the work life balance. There are a few other differences as well, but there is one similarity, one thing that was common to both groups. And that was at least one, usually more than one significant failure, what Warren Bennis came to call "a crucible",a real crisis whether it was a meaningful loss or losing a job being fired, one's identity being insulted,loss of a person. Some real serious crucible,a failure. That was common to both groups, and both groups thought that failure as a pivotal point, as a turning point in their lives. Something that helped them become who they are today. Again,not saying it happened for the best but they were able to make the best of that which happened. Now most people experience crucibles throughout their lives,hardships,difficulties, but difference between the highly successful people, for example the sample in Warren Bennis's book and many other people is that they are able to make the best of what happens. They see it as an opportunity, a learning experience,a stepping stone. The importance of failure for resilience,for well being as well. So let me move on and define what we mean by perfectionism. Because there are many definitions and we throw that word around constantly. But what do I actually mean by perfectionism? I define it as: an incapacitating fear of failure that permeates our lives, especially those areas that we care about most. Note the word incapacitating.It is not just a fear of failure. OK I don't know a person who is not afraid of failure, who is not embarrassed by it or feels frustrated by it. So that's natural. That's human- whether we like it or not. But an incapacitating fear of failure is the failure that is debilitating us,that stops us,that prevents us from coping,from trying,from putting ourselves on the line. And the other part that I want to highlight in this definition is that "especially those areas that we care about most". You know, I am not a perfectionist when it comes to playing Monopoly. It's not that It's competitive. but it's not that important for me if I win or lose. But perfectionism was a central part of my life when it came to- as I mentioned earlier, squash which was very meaningful to me, academics which is very meaningful to me,and relationships which was and is a very important part of my life. So in these areas,that's where I experienced perfectionism, and that's where I needed to do the work and still doing the work It's in those areas.Let me elaborate on this definition. It is an approach,a cognitive and emotional schema, that we hold toward the journey of our lives, toward the process of getting from point A to point B. The emphasis here is on journey. A person committed to excellence can still be as ambitious and more ambitious than a perfectionist. The difference between the two is just their approach toward the journey. Let me illustrate.So let's first take the perfectionist. The perfectionist is currently at point A, wants to get to the point B. What's the perfect,most efficient path between the two points? Straight line! This is the path- this is the cognitive and emotional schema that the perfectionist has when he or she looks at the journey, how they want to get from where they are now to where they want to get to. A person committed to,to excellence, as ambitious as the person,perfectionist, wants to get from point A to point B. No different here.What is different? The cognitive schema that relates to the journey. The person committed to excellence understands that while he improves,inevitably at some point,he would fail. A perfectionist understands that sometimes she may not get the grade that she expected, but she would learn from it. A perfectionist understands that in relationships there is no such thing as a perfect relationship and then therefore,he sometimes makes a mistake, so she sometimes makes a mistake, but they continue and they learn from it. And the relationship becomes,gets stronger. And a perfectionist understands that he needs to fail time and again- 5 times,10 times,sometimes 10 thousand times as we saw with Edison until they get to the point B. As ambitious,but the schema is very different. I have to draw many failed circles before you get to that ideal circle that Vincent drew last time. And the question now becomes "so which is realistic?" Is it realistic to have that schema or is this one more realistic? Well,I think it's pretty obvious. There is no straight line toward success. There is no straight line toward a happy relationship. There is no straight line toward being inventing the light bulb, or being good at psychology, or being a good parent or a good friend. We make mistakes. And "nature to be commanded must be obeyed." Pursuing excellence is about a constraint view of nature. Yes,I wish that I could get from point A to point B in this way. I wish I were so.I didn't enjoy failing my generals; I didn't enjoy falling down many times and losing in squash. I certainly don't enjoy disagreements with my wife. However,I also would rather not have the law of gravity and be able to fly everywhere or float everywhere. This is.This is a fantasy. And when we have this schema in our mind, we are putting ourselves,fighting nature, and just like we would lead an unhappy and frustrating life, if we did not accept the law of gravity, we live and so many people live- so many people at Harvard, not just at Harvard,everywhere are frustrated constantly, because in their minds,they have this schema. And again,this does not mean that we enjoy failure. But when we have this schema, in addition to not enjoying failure, we have the frustration of not accepting reality. Now there are consequences to having this schema. I want to discuss some of these consequences and some of the characteristics of a person who holds this schema Now there is no perfect perfectionist. As I said,we all exist somewhere along the continuum. And there are many people, again,many people here were closer to this end of the continuum. The characteristics that I'd like to share with you are all ones that are documented in literature. There are many people who have them. You will identify with some of the characteristics, not with others. That's fine. All the characteristics in addtion to being well documented in the psychological literature are also ones that I experienced, or still experience. So these ones are personally meaningful to me, in addtion to being also quite common. The first one: defensiveness. In arguments,in discussions,perfectionists are defensive. Why? Because a criticism is by definition a deviation from a straight line. It's imperfection.It's a daint. It's something that maybe I'm not doing perfectly well. And we don't like deviations from a schema we have. Remember,the mind doesn't like when there is an inconsistency between what is inside and what is outside. We want there to be a balance,congruence. We don't like desinence. And if what we have in mind is the perfecionist schema, the criticism is a deviation from it. And then we become defensive. Again,something that I experience numerously times; something that I'm working on constantly. In addition,or in constrast, a person committed to excellence is open, is welcoming of suggestions and criticisms at times. It doesn't mean that he or she enjoys it, but he or she understands that it's necessary, that it's an important part of growth,of development. Perfectionist focuses on the half empty part of the glass. Why? Because a perfectionist is obssessed by failure, obssessed by deviations from that straight narrow. And whatever it is,what are obssessed with by definition is what we constantly focus on. So he or she constantly fosues on what is not working, on potential failures or actual failures. Person committed to excellence focuses on the half full part of the glass. How? Because he or she enjoys getting to where he or she is going but also learns to enjoy every step of the way- the journey, even failure is an opportunity. Person com...A perfectionist over generalizes,catastrophizes. It's all or nothing.Either I'm perfect,or I'm a failure. And we'll see the consequences in a minute of this "all or nothing" approach. Versus realistic. Again,realizing what reality looks like, what progress in essence looks like. For perfectionist,there is no self-acceptance. A person committed to excellence- there is acceptance first of all of reality as comprising spirals rather than a straight line. Acceptance of personal failure and the acceptance of the self as a whole. Perfectionist- there is one way and that's the highway. It is a static. There is no improvization; there is no deviation; there is no trial and error. There is just one way in contrast to having much more dynamic, flexible process and journey,with much more sponetaneity, which manifests itself of course in behaviors. A perfectionist is terrified to failure- terrified that failure from within that he or she perceives themselves as failures but also that others see him or her as a failure. Keeping that fa?ade,that image of impregnability of perfection. Versus failure as feedback.Again,not enjoying failure. I haven't met a person who does enjoy failing, but seeing it more as feedback,as a growth opportunity. A perfectionist is all about getting here. That's what it's about.This is a means toward an end. Tangential. Something that is not important other than taking me from here to here. Or as for person committed to excellence, the journey is much part of the success as the destination. Now there are numerous,numerous consequences to this distinction to holding one schema versus the other. Here are some of them. The first one is that a perfectionist experiences only, at best,temporary relief. So yes, there are constant pressure but when he or she gets to point B, then they feel relieved. This is essentially the consummate rat racer. Let me give you an example of such a rat racer. The person- let's call him X- goes to school,goes to an elementary school. Until that point, he really enjoyed his day care,pre-K,kindergarten. And then he goes to school and the pressure begins. Because he begins to understand he really needs to work very hard and do extremely well if he is to get into a good middle school. Because the middle school that his parents want him to go to is very competitive,very tough to get into. And he did get into a very good elementary school. But now he has to do the same for middle school. So the pressure mounts.And he doesn't really enjoy school. But then he experiences relief when the holidays come, when they go on a family vacation or when the exams end and he can play with his friends without thinking of the next test. He goes through school,not really liking it, experiencing more series of reliefs rather than passion and love of learning which he did experience when he was in kindergarten,but no more. And he gets into his dream middle school- the middle school that he was meant to go to all along. He makes it. And he feels wonderful and great and terrific for 2 weeks. Because he now needs to start thinking about the high school of his dreams. Why? Because that high school is a feeder school for the top colleges in the country. And he really wants to get into one of those. So he really struggles and works hard during,in middle school. He doesn't really enjoy his work. But he makes it,and he gets into his dream high school. And he is ecstatic.Happier than he had ever been before. Because here he is- among the smartest kids in the country. Very difficult to get into this school- but he makes it. And there he starts to learn. He's happy for about a week and then the pressure mounts because it is a very competitive school and he has to join two varsity sports and three students organizations because he has to pad, to build his resume so that he gets into his dream college. And he struggles,and it's not fun. But he says to himself,"this is just temporary. It's only pain now,because later there will be gain- once I get into my top college." And he applies. And on April 2,there is an envelope that arrives. And the envelope is large.And he opens it up and he gets in. And he is ecstatic, happier even that he was when he got into his dream high school. And he says,"now,finally,I can let go. Now finally,I can relax. Because I've already made...I mean this top college. And I'm set for life." And he really enjoys the rest of senior year and the holiday and then the freshman week comes. And he is ecstatic- Mr X. But then after that week,the pressure mounts again. Because very soon there are midterms. And very soon there is competition. And everyone is working as hard as he did. And he has to work really hard because he wants to get his dream job. And then he gets his ideal internship during freshman summer and the pressure continues. There are reliefs; there are fun periods. And these are periods when the exams are just over or when break is coming up. Or during break. But then again,the pressure mounts. He doesn't really understand why he's not happy because I mean this was where he really wanted to be, he really really wanted to be- more than any other place. But he says "OK,once I get that job then I'll be set." Why? Because that job will really get me into the top business school. It will really differentiate me from all the other 1600 students who will graduate with me. So he works hard,still builds his resume. He's a member of 3 students organizations,president of two. JV in two sports and varsity in one,plus taking five, and sometimes six courses in a semester. Why? Because it's tough.It's competitive. And it's the survival of the fittest.And no pain,no gain. Senior year finally comes and there's pressure. But then he gets his job.He's happy. This is exactly what he wanted. This is exactly what he envisioned. And now he's happy. And then comes August 3, which is the date when he starts his actual work. And he goes to his work and everyone around him is graduated from top universities,top places. He feels on top of the world.And he's happy for 2 weeks. Because after 2 weeks, he realizes there is a lot of pressure here, actually much more than it was in college. And he can't have time for those long leisurely dinners in the dinning hall. He's working 80 t0 90 hours a week and not really enjoying it. But he'll make it.He'll get there. He'll do well,get a good recommendation for business school, and then after business school, get his real dream job and then he can enjoy himself. And he gets into his top business school choice and then he gets his top job. And in his job,as an associate,he's really happy. In fact he can't believe his good fortune. He's making a lot of money. Those student debt looked so serious and over-bearing only 3 years ago and now are paid in an instant. He feels good. He has a nice apartment and he becomes an associate and he's ecstatic. He's happy,"I finally made it!" But a month goes by and the knot returns. Because he's only an associate. He now really,really wants to make partner. But once he's partner, once he got the so called "tenure" of the business world, then he'll be all set. And he works hard.He struggles. He doesn't really enjoy his work. But he says,"just another push.A little bit more pain. And then the real gain." And after 5 years of pushing hard,he makes it. And he becomes a partner- in fact, one of the youngest partners in the history of the organization. And he's ecstatic. He takes a long break and comes back after the break, all motivated. Because now he's owner, part-owner of this great prestigious organization. And by now he has a family now already.And he buys a huge house in one of the suburbs of the city,expensive But he bought it easily.And he buys a luxury car. In fact he has a driver by now.And he feels on top of the world. He feels great for 3 months.And then the pressure returns. Because he's only a junior partner. Can he make the senior partnership? Is it possible? Well,only if he works hard because a few people make it that high up in the pyramid. It's getting tougher.But he'll make it. So he struggles and he suffers,and it's not fun. But he makes it.No pain,no gain. And by this time,he's just bought another house in the Hamptons- just for the holidays,for the breaks. And there's another car- a bigger one,a faster one. And now he says,"I can finally,finally relax." And he does relax.For 2 and a half months. And then the pressure returns.Because he's a senior partner. But there is only one managing director.Only one. And to get that would be really tough. But he's determined to do it. He's been a star; there's no reason to just stop now. It's not fun for him. He doesn't spend that much time with people he loves, because he's constantly stressed; he has to prove himself. And for 7 long years, while there is material affluence for those 7 years, there is time poverty,time famine. But he continues to struggle and he makes it. The board makes an announcement. He's on the Wall Street Journal,front page news: Mr X is the new managing director of this incredible organization And his friends congratulate him. He feels on top of the world.And he's happy. But then the stress returns. But then one day,one day he walks into his office, sits on his chair,puts his legs up on the table. He's after all the Boss,the Man. He looks back and sees central park. Just beautiful there. He really is,not just metaphorically speaking- he really is on top of the world. And then there is a knock on the door. He's surprised by the knock, because usually his secretary announces people- they don't just knock on his door. He's after all,on top of the world. So he walks down and opens the door. And it's the chairman of the board. And she says hi to him.He says hi back. And she says,"you know,record earnings this year. Well done! Fantastic! You have done amazing,amazing work. We are all so proud of you.So glad you are in your position. However,it's time to retire.You are 72 years old." This is the life of the rat racer- at best. And again,this is a caricature. I've highlighted just certain points. It's not as all or nothing. However,in essence,this is the life of the rat racer- about getting from point A to point B and then feeling relief for two weeks or a month. And then getting...point B becomes point A. And again,like the rat running around on and on and on and on. And you need to ask yourselves now- because not now then when? You need to ask yourselves now, "what kind of life do I want for myself?" I gave an example of business. It applies as much to any other domain- whether you are,want to become a medical doctor and going on and feeling pressure to get into the best schools, the best department,the best internship, the best,the highest position and on and on; or whether you are working for a non profit organization; or whether you are in academia; or a lawyer. It doesn't matter- just filling the blank of Mr X in which area. It applies to any place. And the question is,"what kind of life do I want for myself?" And remember the most important thing, a person committed to excellence does not give up on being ambitious. However,a person committed to excellence does not also give up on the journey. And as we'll talk about soon, a person who is committed to excellence, not only does he or she not give up on the journey or rather on the outcome, they actually reach higher levels of performance. But we'll get to that soon. A person committed to excellence is not just about temporary relief, but about lasting satisfaction. Yes,she has the ups and downs like we all do. However,also able to enjoy the journey day to day- the experience being the college, the experience of having a lovely meal with my friends, the experience of reading and being exposed to great writers, to interesting classes,to nice extra curricular activities, and appreciating it,not taking it for granted, not seeing it as just incidental- just something that I need to get through in order to get to where I really want to get to. Well,you may want to get...really want to get there, but where you really are is here and now. No other place. You know,I haven't met,maybe you have, but I haven't met the perfect person. I don't think that person exists. In other words,if there isn't a person,a perfect person, for every person,there's inevitable failure. And a perfectionist who is obsessed with failure just focuses on that,whereas the person committed to excellence, there is possibility of success every step of the way, even in failure. A perfectionist very often wastes time- has to read every word,every... You know,"i have to be dotted,every t crossed." It's all or nothing. Either I hand in a perfect paper, or I don't hand in a paper at all. Either it's a straight A,or I'm a failure. All or nothing.And sometimes,it's appropriate. And that's what a person committed to excellence does- understands when,for example, if you are a surgeon,you want to have the perfect operation. You don't want to say,"well,it's OK. I'm 80 percent right about where exactly to cut." Yeah,there are places where you want the perfectionism. But in many other areas in our lives,it's not necessary. And it hurts us.A perfectionist is very often prone to disorders. And I mean disorders of numerous times including, for example,eating disorder. So let me give you a personal example. So when I was playing squash,when I was playing full time, I had to really take care of my diet- eat healthfully,eat well. But there was a problem. There was a real challenge in my life. And that challenge was my mother who is the perfect cook. And her cakes are outstanding. So here is the common scenario that I encountered growing up- tough childhood: I would come home after the squash practice, open the fridge,starving. And there was a large piece of cake. Not a whole cake,but you know a quarter cake, very large,so inviting.So alluring. And I know from past experiences it's so delicious. I look at it.And then I close the fridge. Because I can't have it. I'm in middle of training for an important tournament. But three minutes later, I go to the fridge again,just to make sure it's still there. Why? Those of you who know my brother understand why. My brother is much bigger than I am. And he likes my mom's cooking no less than I do. So I was just making sure that it was still there. And it was. And then 10 minutes later,I had to go back because my brother had just disappeared from my eyes a few minutes. I thought he went to the fridge. So I opened the fridge again and it was still there. So I was relieved. And about 5 minutes later I had to go back to the fridge. I opened the door and two minutes later,there was no cake. All or nothing.Either I don't touch it,or I devour it. This is the schema that a perfectionist has. It's not "OK,let me have a slice of it." It's nothing or all. And this is the schema that perfectionists have: either I'm a supermodel or I'm overweight. All or nothing.And it's destructive. It hurts so much on so many levels. As opposed to the healthy approach. OK,so I'll have a slice.So I'll have a little bit. OK,so I gained a couple of pounds- big deal?! I'm human. I'm not a machine.I'm not a Barbie.Or Ken.(Laugh) I caught myself there. Hurts self-esteem.Why? Because... Nathaniel Branden who writes about self-esteem- we'll talk a lot about him in that lecture 3 weeks from now. The first pillar of self-esteem is self-acceptance. And remember a perfectionist does not accept him/herself. Second,the reason why it hurts self-esteem- remember, there is constant,inevitable failure for a perfectionist because there is no perfect person.And if I constantly fail or constantly perceive myself as a failure, am I going to have high self-esteem? Of course not. It also hurts self-esteem because a perfectionist is less likely to try,less like to put him/herself on the line. And the price that I pay for that when I don't try is lower level of self-esteem. Remember self-perception theory. Versus on-going,continuous improvement. Not a straight line,but a spiral that goes up and up. Perfectionism harms relationships. Again,I just look back and I,you know from this perspective, it's hard for me to fathom the kind of mistakes that I have made in relationships based on perfectionism. Why? First of all,defensiveness. It is very difficult to form intimacy with some one when I'm constantly on the defensive,when I can't accept or do something at the very least with criticisms. What kind of intimacy is possible there? The other reason why it harms relationships is that very often,we mirror... Our approach to the world mirrors our approach toward ourselves. So if I'm a perfectionist and expect perfectionism- a straight line for myself,I would expect the same from others, whether it's from my partner, whether it's later on my children or friends. And now as we... I think- I establish before- there is no perfect person. Now it may seem perfect when we first meet. And during the honeymoon phase,it is perfect. He or she is perfect. But beyond that,suddenly,we begin to identify flaws.Hey, that's not the person I thought I got together with initially. Yes,of course it's not,if what I expect is Barbie or Ken. Straight line.But it's a human being. And if I expect perfectionism from the other, I will inevitably be disappointed. And that leads to frustration, lacks of acceptance toward the partner, and very often,usually harms the relationship. Versus on-going growth of the relationship, as we'll talk about when we talk about relationships. The ideal relationship is not a relationship that is devoid of failure, that is devoid of disagreements. The ideal relationship is one where there's mostly good stuff, but there's also disagreements,disappointments,fights. That's actually healthy. It helps the relationship become stronger over time. The issue is of degree. How much positive versus negative do you have in the relationship? The issue is not having only positives and no negatives. That's not a healthy relationship. That's a relationship with a lot of suppression and repression at best. Perfectionism leads to anxiety,leads to stress. There is always a fear of failure. Versus excitement. What Peter Senge called "creative tension". But what about performance? What about the "no pain,no gain" mantra that's drilled into our mind constantly? I mean we know self-evident that we need to work hard in order to succeed. So shouldn't I be a perfectionist? And one of the main reasons why people don't give up the schema is because they think this is the fastest way, most efficient way to success. But it turns out that it's not the case, that actually the person committed to excellence is more successful in the long run. And there is a lot of research that illustrates this. Let me share some of it.Some of the reasons. Now,less pain,more gain. First of all,in the ultimate currency, the most important currency of happiness. People committed to excellence as opposed to perfectionists are happier. So that's wonderful and that's great. But it's not just in the ultimate currency, it's also in the hard currency, whether it's success at work,whether it's success for athletes, whether it's success in relationships. Various reasons. First of all,person committed to excellence enjoys much more sustainable approach to growth. Remember, the analogy that I use from environmentalism- sustainable growth. It's not about having a sterile environment. It's not about going back to the days of when we lived as hunters and gathers in caves. It is living in accordance of modern life. It is enjoying modernity and progress,but at the same time, not taking too much out of the environment so that it can sustain itself. The same on the individual level. A perfectionist does not enjoy sustainable approach to growth. Because there are no places for recovery,no places for deviation Everything is static like a machine. As opposed to a person committed to excellence: there are deviations,there are breaks,there are recoveries. Much more sustainable.Versus all or nothing.I got injured. My squash career ended because it was all or nothing. Either I don't train at all or I train like Jansher Khan,the world champion. Also intrinsic motivation is much higher for people committed to excellence. And when we have intrinsic motivation, we are much more likely to sustain effort over a long period of time, and if all the motivation is intrinsic. Comes to getting to that next stage. Getting those accolades.Getting that raise and so on. Winston Churchill said that perfectionism spells paralysis. When we are so obsessed with failure, we are much less likely to act. One of the primary causes of procrastination is perfectionism- the incapacitating fear of failure. Cause if we don't act,we don't fail. Self-esteem as I mentioned earlier is much higher for a person committed to excellence. And as Nathaniel Branden said,self concept is destiny; beliefs become self-fulfilling prophecies. If I believe in myself,if I think I can succeed, if I have the track record to show that I get up after falling down, I'm much more likely to succeed over time. Did I mention this before? Oh.OK.Good. Because it is important.There is no other way to succeed. You are at "the Luck Factor", the fantastic work by Wiseman,UK professor. And what he talks about,one of the causes of having more luck in our lives seems like a mystical thing, but actually can be shown scientifically. One of the ways of having more luck in our lives is to try new things,little things, even when you walk back to your dining hall after class. Take a slightly different path,as opposed to the path that has already been taken by you every single day. And he says these little changes in our lives, these slight deviations from a straight narrow actually lead to higher levels of luck, because we begin to see things that we haven't seen before. Perfectionist- one way; no deviations,no improvisation,no spontaneity. This very often prevents us from being "luckier". Creativity- Simonton: the most successful, the most creative scientist and artist throughout the history are ones that fail the most. They were not perfectionists. They were committed to excellence- extremely ambitious, understanding that there's no other way to succeed. John Updike,highly creative author, says "perfectionism is the enemy of creativity." And we'll talk about another author who has very good advice for us of how to overcome this perfectionism,Samuel Coleridge. The 80/20 rule. This rule- understanding this rule as it applies to time management changed my Harvard experience. So what is the Pareto principle? Pareto was an Italian economist about 100 years ago. And he came up with this principle which he named the Pareto principle. And the principle says that in most societies, 20 percent of the people own about 80 percent of the wealth. They applied this principle to organizations as well, where 20 percent of your clients generate 80 percent of your income. And this has been applied to many areas in economics. And more recently,to time management. For example,in 20 percent of our time, we can get 80 percent of our work done. And when I understood this, it changed my approach toward my academics. Why? Because I realized that well I didn't need to read 100 percent of the material. Again,don't quote me on this. I didn't need to make sure that every t's crossed and every i's dotted when I handed in the paper. And I started to follow much more the pleasure principle or the happiness principle and I said, "OK,this is something that I really cared about." For example,I don't know if this class is still offered now. Lit and Arts C14 "Heroes". Still offered now? One of my favorite classes,as an undergrad. And it's not a very difficult class. I could do very well without putting too much in it. But I spent a 50 hours on final paper. Because I wrote about a topic that I really really cared about. And I didn't get an A for it,which didn't make any sense to me. But I still put in so much work in it. Because it was fun,whereas other classes that I enjoyed less, I put in what I needed in order to get what I thought was enough. Not all or nothing. Either I study and get a straight A,or I don't study at all. Another class- I don't know if it's still taught- Lit and Arts again, "Fairy Tales"? With Maria Tatar? She teaches another class now. I had a crush on her when I was an undergrad. I can't believe that I just said it loud.(Laugh) So yeah,she said no.Um no I didn't ask her.I didn't. So also in that class- not a very difficult class. A very enjoyable class on many levels. And again,putting a lot of work into a paper that there by the way ultimately began the to... became the topic of my dissertation on self-esteem. So again,asking what is most important for me? What do I really care about as opposed to saying all or nothing. Now my grades did go down slightly as a result. But really very little. Because I was employing that 20/80 rule. 20 percent of focus on what's important and got the 80 percent of the work done. And I became so much more successful in other areas of my academic career, because I had more time to play squash and enjoy my squash practice. I had more time for socializing, for sitting in Law House and having a two and a half hour dinner, starting at 5 pm. Just based on that. Another application of the 80/20 rule: all of us have different time during the day when we are most productive. In fact,in 20 percent of the day,we get 80 percent, potentially,80 percent of our work done, depending whether we are morning people or night people. There are people who get up in the morning at you know 6,7 am and they are ready to go. That's me.I get up early.Very easy for me. I just go straight to my computer or to change a diaper. Very early in the morning.First thing.No problem. At night,by 9,10 pm,complete zombie. And there are people who are the opposite- can stay up till 2,3,4 am in the morning, and that's when they are the freshest. By the way,it has to do with our internal biorhythm, internal circadian rhythms. Because there are some people for whom- no one is exactly or very few people are exactly 24 hours rhythms We are usually either somewhere between 23 and 25. So for people whose circadian rhythm is 23 hours, they get very tired at night. But then they wake up very fresh in the morning. Or people who are closer to 25 need that extra sleep in the morning. And it's for those people that I have this class at 11:30. I know it's early but thank you for making the effort. When I got to college,most students were studying late at night. My roommates were studying late at night,starting at about 10 and going to you know midnight or 2 am in the morning. And that's when they are most productive.I wasn't. And I would get up in the morning and I was tired,exhausted,couldn't really focus at night. And when I heard about this productive hour,I changed my day. And I went to sleep early. So when my roommates started to study,I actually went to bed, and got up really early when my roommates were still asleep and got my work done early in the morning, and then went to my 11 am class after I got my work done. And in 3 hours in the morning, I got much more done- more productive,more creative, much better retention than I did late at the night. These two things as I mentioned earlier really changed my experience here- getting so much more in far less time. Not the perfectionist approach,the pursuing excellence approach. You read about "flow"- Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi who talks about flow is being peak experience we enjoy the most and peak performance- we perform at our best,defying the "no pain,no gain" formula. And when do we experience flow? Not when we experience the high levels of anxiety as the perfectionist often does,not when we are bored, but when it's the optimum levels of arousal,when we are excited. The person committed to excellence is much more likely to experience the flow than the person who is constantly afraid of failure, constantly obsessed with failure, constantly thinking about what if I fail. Let me talk a little bit about the sources of the perfectionism. Because if we understand that,as I mentioned last time, if we understand where it comes from, we are much more likely to be able to get over it. So some of these sources of perfectionism. The first one,the most important one is conditioning. I mean we are not born perfectionist. Children as you saw in the video- they are,as you know, born actually enjoying the learning process much more than we do. When we are afraid of failing,they fall and they get up again. So it's through conditioning that we learn to be afraid of failure,specifically, the schema that we internalize that's being reinforced constantly from almost the time when we were born- that what matters is the destination. When we get to a certain destination such as learning how to walk- well done! Such as getting A at the end of my first grade- terrific! Gold star! It's the destination that's rewarded. And after a while,we begin to internalize this schema and we begin to believe that we accept it when we achieve a certain completion and goes on throughout our lives. I mean when do we get a bonus? On April 3? No,we get it on December 31! Or just before Christmas at the end of the year. This was a good productive year.Well done. When do we get the grades, the pats on the back if we did work well? At the end of the semester. Or after an exam when we have completed something. Not during the journey. In other words,the journey goes unrewarded. And we begin to perceive it as inconsequential, not important,just a means toward an end. Very few teachers,parents,organizations, schools reward the journey- the enjoyment of the journey. And of course,very few reward,lo and behold,failure, which is an inevitable part of every journey so that we learn no good- this is no good- we must have as much as possible a straight line. A straight schema. And we pay a price for it when we internalize it. And this is the kind of social environment that we are born into, that we are raised in, and the social environment that is very difficult to change. I mean I know- I have little kids at home. It is so difficult to change it because very often I'm inclined to say to focus from early on the day "Oh Shirell just learned how to walk! Well done! You know you just walk" as opposed to rewarding the effort as we'll talk about in a minute and rewarding the hard work and rewarding even the failure,the trying,the coping,the process. Very difficult. And that's connected,of course,to the permission to be human. The permission for the constraint of view of the human nature, as opposed to the idealized,disconnected, detached of view of what life can look like. Because it can't. Instead of permission to be human,there's pressure to be perfect It's constant.It's on-going. It's in the media.It's in the workplace. It's in our educational institutions. It's everywhere.And we pay a price for it. Now let me give you some examples. Before I give this example,just a quick introduction. As you know,academics don't make that much money. When people go into academia,it's usually not for the money. So many academics, myself being known no exception have to supplement their income. So I supplement my income- and I want to share with you something that I do on the side. (Laugh) Yeah.My glasses are just to hide the abs.Yeah. So I mean,is he real? Is anyone in this room who looks like this? Yeah,didn't mean for you to answer that question. But I mean is this real? Well,partially. A lot of it is photoshoped. But yeah,there are some people who look like this. But what do we see in the magazines? I mean if you go to the magazine store. You know the magazines these are the kind of people who are on the cover. Perfect.Perfect beings. Even more so- you know so we have our Kens- even more so with the Barbies. I just do a lot of work on Google image.So look at this. "The Progress of Science". "Some Examples of Recent Art". Just like Cosmo today,right? Well,so look at this. "Sex Goddess Secrets". I mean,it's not even "Sex HUMAN Secrets"! That's not good enough! Look at these standards that are set for ourselves! How am I ever going to match that! Or here- oh I didn't see that. "The Naughty Thing 30%..." I should read that.(Laugh) But that's not what I want to point to. I actually wanted to point to this- "How to Get Ahead Fast". As fast as you can,right? There is no time.Or this- "Never". "Never Have a Zit Again".I mean,I still have zits.I'm 37. What do...How do they do that?! Again,unrealistic models. You know in 1997 when I was living in Singapore, I wanted to bring Nathaniel Branden to Singapore. Again,he is considered the leading person on self-esteem. His wife,Devers Branden has done a lot of work in the areas of self-esteem and personal growth. So I wanted to bring them both. So I brought them to consult for the organization where I was working. And I was looking for other ways because it was very expensive for other ways of funding that trip And a close friend of mine, Pat Lee was working at the time with the Body Shop. And she said,"you know,this is perfect. Because the Body Shop this year and Anita Roddick whom I mentioned earlier is interested in self-esteem for women. So why don't we do a project with Devers and Nathaniel and the Body Shop joint venture and have self-esteem for women in Singapore?" I thought it was a great idea. I actually met with Anita Roddick. And we co-sponsored Nathaniel Branden- it was a highly successful event. We had 700 seats; over 1000 people came. We had to have plasma outside. And in addition,it made a huge stir and really started a movement or a mini movement in Singapore- self-esteem for women. As a result, Nathaniel Branden wrote a book,called "Self-esteem For Women". Cause he's blown away with the fascinating stories that were told in the seminar and so on. Anyway,but Anita Roddick has done a lot of work for women and self-esteem. And one of the projects- she did that in 1997- I think you were,most of you were too young to be aware of it, but it was on all Body Shop stores was one that she based on a doll called Ruby,the alternative to Barbie. And here is what the campaign looked like. Whoops! Sorry. "There are 3 billion women who don't look like supermodels and only 8 who do." Or "Hey media, Where we come from cultural and physical diversity is the norm. It's called Planet earth." Very effective campaign.And so important. Because what of the models that we have today in our culture- all or nothing. I mean,this picture by the way came together. I didn't put them together. Either you binge,or the alternative. Or what do we get in the movies? I mean who possibly can live up to the standards of Top Gun? Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis. The perfect love that they had there, but this is the model that we had- and I'll talk about it when I talk about relationships. Who possibly can sustain even for "9 1/2 Weeks" (movie), let alone a life time? The passion in the movies. Impossible standards.Also,self-help books. "Think and Grow Rich". Nothing much about this.No,just think.And then you'll be rich. Tens of millions of copies sold from this book. Or here is another book that I found. Now the book,the book may be great. I haven't read it- I have to admit. But look at it- "Small Steps to Big Happiness.NOW!" Again,we can't wait.It's about the destination. It's not about the hard work,the journey,the character, change that needs to take place. And there is something else. There is something else that leads to perfectionism. And this is the research that you have already read about. And this is work done by,great work done by Carol Dweck, who is now at Stanford. Here is her study. Because you see, what she illustrates is that not all praise is good. Telling a kid you are wonderful,you are terrific,you are great, no matter what indiscriminately- you are so smart,you are so amazing,my little Einstein- that's not always good. That may be harmful in the long run. And it may,it may create the perfectionism schema. So let me share with you one of her studies. And again,I think you've already read this. So what she did was going to group of 10 years old and randomly divided them into two groups. The first group did a puzzle which they completed successfully,each one individually. And at the end,for each one when he or she completed the puzzle, she would say,"wow.You are so intelligent.So smart." And of course,they felt good about it.Terrific. The second group did the exact same puzzle- succeeded; did well. And at the end of it,she said, "wow.You put so much effort into it.You worked so hard." Again,randomly divided into these two groups. One- "smart and intelligent"; one- "effort,hard work". And she had a second part of the study. That second part: the participant had to choose between two puzzles. One puzzle they were told was relatively easy- one they could do well. The other one was extremely hard, but they could really learn a lot from it. From the group that was told that they were smart or smart and intelligent, 50 percent chose the easy one; 50 percent chose the hard one where they could learn a lot. From the group that was told that they were hard-working, that they put in a lot of effort,90 percent chose the hard one, the one that they could learn from. This was the part two of the study. Part three. She brought them in again,and this time had them take, or do a puzzle which was very difficult, which was essentially unsolvable. And she wanted to see the reaction of the two groups. The group that was told how smart they were, how intelligent they were, that group didn't persist much and experienced a lot of frustration and would give up very quickly on that puzzle. In contrast,the group that was told earlier that they worked hard and that they put in a lot of effort, persisted much more and actually enjoyed the process, even though they didn't end up solving the puzzle. But they enjoyed the process and they worked harder. Look at this slight manipulation. Simply one sentence- "oh you are so smart!" "Oh you are working so hard!" One sentence lead to this significant difference. In her words- "Emphasizing effort gives a child a variable that they can control. They come to see themselves as in control of their success. Emphasizing natural intelligence takes it out of the child’s control, and it provides no good recipe for responding to a failure." Essentially what happens when you focus only on the intelligence, on how smart you are,you are creating the perfectionist schema, as opposed to a schema that focuses on the journey,effort,hard work. She continues- "When you praise kids' in telligence and then they fail, they think they're not smart anymore, and they lose interest in their work. In contrast,kids praised for effort show no impairment and often are energized in the face of difficulty." What a difference just based on these two approaches. Person who is praised for their intelligence creates this schema- either I'm intelligent or I'm not. And I'm afraid of not being intelligent, so I'll choose the easier task. And when I can't do something,it's an attack, it's an insult on my schema,right? It's a deviation from this straight narrow. In contrast,if effort is most important, "OK,let me see what's around the corner here." "Hey I'm learning a lot now.This is wonderful.This is fun." Because with one,it's "a fixed mindset",in Dweck's words. And in the other, it's the malleable,changing,ongoing,developing mindset. One- there is fear of failure,cause I want to be smart. It's fun being called smart and intelligent. I don't want to threaten the schema. Versus working hard,focusing on the process, when the excellence schema becomes the dominant modus operandi.OK. So how do we overcome perfectionism? What do we do about it if we have it? And again,remember there's no perfect perfectionist. There is no perfect person committed to excellence. You need to choose in your life where you are happy, and where you think you can be happier. This may not even speak to you. This for you may be just interesting academically, or it may be deeply personal. So how do we become more and more of the excellence schema? First,it is about self-awareness.It's about understanding. For me,a big breakthrough was understanding "hey I'm actually defensive and I don't want to be defensive." Because I know that it hurts intimacy and relationships and that's when I started the real work on it. And that has improved, and continues to improve my relationships. Or "look at my reaction to failure. Look how afraid I am of hearing a no. Look how afraid I am of being rejected. Look how afraid I am of coping and trying." So being aware of it. I mean,if you want to improve your forehand in tennis, you first need to be aware of what it is that you want to improve So that's the first step.And that's easier said than done. Let me show you a quick example of someone who perhaps is not fully aware of her weaknesses. [Video: Will and Grace S3EP10] KAREN: Hey,Jackie Brown. JACK: Why isn't there any coffee?! KAREN: Same reason why you don't have a wife and three kids. It's the way God wants it. JACK: Damn it,this is an office! There should be coffee! KAREN: Hey,hey,hey,hey,hey! Why don't you save your anger for the bedroom,where it belongs? Why don't you go see your little coffee cutie,huh? Your latte lover.Mr.Jock-full-of-nuts. JACK: He quit,all right? What is this? The freaking inquisition? Can't a guy have a nice,hot cup of coffee when he wants, or do we all live in "Tea Land" where it's a capital crime to even say the word "coffee"? KAREN: Ok,jitterbug,get a hold of yourself. JACK: Don't tell me to get a hold of myself.I'm fine! KAREN: Ok,you may wanna take a look in the mirror because you got a little crazy on your face.Ok? JACK: Oh,my God. Karen,what's happening to me? KAREN: Well,I'm no expert, but I think you have a little addiction problem. No tears on the damask. JACK: Addiction? Oh,no.No,no! I don't have an addiction,thank you very much. KAREN: Ok,ok.JACK: I'm fine,I'm fine. KAREN: Ok,ok,it's over. Now,listen to me.[KAREN GETS OUT A PILL.] The first thing you have to do is admit that you have a problem. [KAREN SWIRLS THE PILL IN HER MARTINI.] Because if you can't even recognize the signs... [KAREN DROPS THE WET PILL INTO HER MOUTH.] Then you are really in sorry shape. [KAREN WASHES DOWN THE PILL.] Oh,mmm! [TO THE MARTINI GLASS] Why are you so good to me? JACK: Karen,I can't do it.I'm hooked on the junk. KAREN: Well,honey,if it'll help you,I'll do it with you,ok? I'll kick coffee,too. Yeah! It won't be easy,but every morning when I wake up, I'll just have to get used to drinking my Bailey's straight. It'll still be the best part of waking up. JACK: Ok,Karen.Ok.Together we can do this. Let me just have one last cup. KAREN: No. JACK: Half a cup. KAREN: No. JACK: How about you drink a cup and I'll lick your tongue? KAREN: [BEAT] Tempting,but no.Ok,come here.Right here. JACK: Oh,Karen,when will the lambs stop screaming? Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:So whether it's dealing with addiction or dealing with any issue in our lives,perfectionism, or whether it's improving something,first step is awareness. Second step is- there is 5 more minutes,by the way, those of you who are looking at this clock- it's 5 minutes fast. Or 4 more minutes.4 more minutes.Focus on a reward effort. What Carol Dweck showed was when we focus on efforts,people's effort, we are able to change schema that has been engrained there, and that has been there very often for years. So with ourselves,or with other people, it's about focusing on the journey, focusing on and rewarding ourselves at times, even for failure,for trying. And within a few hours,what Carol Dweck has seen, teaching people that their mind is malleable, teaching them actually about neuro plasticity that is not a fix, we can bring about change. Active acceptance. Karen Horney, whom I consider one of the mothers of positive psychology has done a lot of work on neurosis. One of the thing that she found was that neurosis that we have never really goes away. It's always part of us. It becomes more manageable,but it's always there. And perfectionism at the extreme is a form of neurosis. So the thing is to accept that it will always be... I always have the tendency for perfectionism and it's OK. However,whereas before, I was here on the extreme of perfectionism; now I'm much closer to the excellence extreme. And it's a life long...It's an on-going process. It's an on-going process. And the key here is to accept that it will always be part of one's life and then to say, "all right,so what do I do now?" In other words,it is about then taking action. Behavior. So for example,it's about coping,putting ourselves on the line. What I did initially, when I first realized that perfectionism and my defensiveness, I would go out of my way and solicit criticism. And I would ask people,"so you know give me feedback about it." And when I received negative feedback, things that were actually deviations from the straight line, I literally held myself from you know pouncing back. You know the best form of defenses is attack very often for perfectionist. And slowly I got used to it.And I became far less defensive. And I was able to create much higher levels of intimacy. Or I put myself on the line in other areas, where I potentially would experience a no. So let me end with a quick story. Her name is Brittaney.She was a show girl.At least to me she was. We met freshman week.And we really hit it off. We spent almost the entire freshman week out. And at the end of the freshman week, wanting to overcome my perfectionism, I asked her out.And she said no. It surprised me,def me,hurt me.But she said no. My sophomore year,we met again. And again,I asked her out.And this time she said no. Junior year,toward the end of my junior year,I dated someone. So Brittaney was out of the equation. And then we met again- my senior year. We had an amazing conversation. By that time I already studied psychology. I could also read her body language. She did a lot of this with her hair. And I knew that she really liked me. And I asked her out.And she said no. And I'm still here with you. And that was an important learning process. Learn to fail or fail to learn. I'll see you in next week. 



 Chapter 15: 享受过程


Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Any announcement today? Anyone? No. OK.Good morning. What we are going to do today is finish up on perfectionism and then move on to the mind body. This semester for me has been going great. There are very few things that I regret about not having done this semester, but there is one thing that I will change next time when I teach the class,that I already know of now, is have the lecture on the mind body earlier. Because it is such an important topic. It is so foundational,so basic that when I realized that- and that was earlier on this semester that I should have had it earlier, I started already to plug for physical exercise, to talk about mindfulness, to introduce it a little bit on a lower level of the spiral. So today,you know,a month or two- too late perhaps, we are going to introduce the mind body connection, physical health. But first,let me introduce- let me finish up on perfectionism. So remember last time we talked about the two models- the schema of the perfectionist, a straight line from point A to point B versus the schema of the person committed to excellence which is much more meandering spiral kind-of journey.And a couple of people yesterday in office hours asked the question, "so what is really the difference?" So you gave us the model of rat racer- you know that person- remember- who at the age of 72, gets to being,quite literally on top of the world, overlooking central park and then being informed after a life of constant stress, constantly living the future in point B, not enjoying the present,the journey, is being told it is time to retire. And I asked you a simple question, "what kind of life do you want for yourself?" So what is the alternative model? What is the positive model? Now the positive model from the outside may look exactly the same It may be a person who is extremely ambitious, a person who is extremely hard working, a person who is an investment banker or a doctor, or a lawyer,or a teacher,or working at a homeless shelter. It may look the exactly same from the outside. From the inside,it is radically different. How is it radically different? In that the person who is on the excellence side, may be as ambitious,may have the same goals, may reach the same goals. However,that person also enjoys the journey. That is the difference. So yes,he or she gets into a top school, a school that they really wanted to get into. And at school they work extremely hard. However,they also learn it that they are able to,mostly- there's no 100 percent here- but mostly, enjoy their time in school,with the same ups and downs, the vicissitudes- natural- but enjoy school and then get into the job they really wanted or one of the job they wanted,and work extremely hard there, and be ambitious,and work the 80 hour weeks. However,that person also overall enjoys the journey. And then they enjoy the next step and being associate, being a partner,and being the MD or whatever it is. The only difference is that they enjoy the journey. Now I have a few role models that I know. One of them is my ex-roommate,who is an investment banker. We were in college together,also class of 96. After graduating,being an economist major, worked for one of the premier hedge funds. After that,came back to Harvard,got his JD MBA. Did extremely well here as a JD MBA. Had all the offers that he wanted after. Chose another hedge fund. And went off on his own and started a firm with a few friends. Now when I talked to him about investment banking which I know very little about, I get very excited about investment banking. Because his excitement is contagious. He looks forward to work every day. And he works long hours. So he is a model of a person committed to excellence. Even though from the outside, it may look the exact same as the "caricature" that I depicted earlier. So it's not about losing our ambition. It's not about not being competitive. If that is what makes you happy. It is simply learning to also enjoy the process, the step on the way to a destination that you deem valuable that is important to you. Now the question is,"how do we overcome this perfectionism, this constant knot in our stomach? How do we overcome this living in the future, being afraid of the present because what if I fail? And I started to describe a few methods: the first one is being aware of it- being aware of what I want to change and what I want to maintain. Remember Ellen Langer's study- about getting a more nuance understanding of what it is that I want to change. Because for very long time, I couldn't,couldn't become less of a perfectionist because associated with perfectionism,with also success, my subconscious were stopping me from letting go of perfectionism because I thought that also means throwing out baby with bath water,i.e.my success. But now that I have a more nuance understanding of perfectionism which is an incapacitating fear of failure, and I understand that I can still be as ambitious and not give up my success, and yet enjoy the process- that's a better understanding. And now I can move forward. So the first step is awareness. After we have awareness, it's about going back to Dweck's notion of rewarding effort. Remember,Carol Dweck was able to change students and adult's mind set with as little as a few hours. And sometimes, this mind set has been set in them from a very young age. The fixed versus the malleable mind set. And Carol Dweck by teaching them the malleability, the neuroplasticity- how our brain constantly changes by teaching them that to focus on the journey,on the effort, as opposed to the outcomes,as opposed to the intelligence, was able to change their mind set. So in ourselves we can focus on a reward on our effort, on our process,whether it's failure or success. Active acceptance. It will always be part of us. You know one of the things that perfectionist very often do when they realize they are perfectionists, and that is hurting them: they apply the perfectionist approach to overcoming perfectionism which means, I will become perfect person who is committed to excellence. That doesn't work.That's just more perfectionism. But what active acceptance is about saying, "OK.So I'm not...So I'm still a perfectionist. I will always probably have part of it in me. And that's OK.And that's OK." One of the things that Buddhists talk about is that very often, our greatest challenges, what Karen Horney would call "our neurosis"- whether it's perfectionism,the fear of failure, whether it's anger that comes up once in a while,anxiety, whatever it is that we have- that "issue". The Buddhists cognitively reframe it and say, "we need to look at it as a tool,as a tool for growth, as a way of learning about ourselves, digging deep inside ourselves and growing." So to look at it- OK,so this is an opportunity for growth, for personal learning,for reflection, for more empathy toward other people- whatever it is. But to look at it as a tool. Accept it.And then act. Can one of the TFs- do you mind seeing what it is,please? Thanks,John. The next thing,after we accept it,we go ahead and change it. And we go ahead and change it by introducing behavior. The key issue here is behavior. Now one of the things that I did as I told you last time was started to solicit feedback from people, started to solicit criticism. Initially,literally I need to catch myself from responding, from attacking back. Why? Because criticism is the deviation from a straight narrow, from that schema. But over time I got used to it.It actually helped me. And now I'm much open to criticism. Still, sometimes catch myself when I want to respond and attack back. But overall,I got better through behavior changing attitude. Something else- putting myself on the line more, whether it's the story that I told you about Brittany, who said no a few consecutive times. And that's OK.So she said no. I'm still here.I survived. Learn to fail or fail to learn. Next,we don't always have to act out in the world; we can also act in our internal simulator- the mind doesn't know the difference between the real thing and the imaginary thing. And therefore,I can imagine myself,see myself, acting as a person committed to excellence. So for example,before teaching, one of the things that I visualize is seeing myself there on the stage,feeling light, calm and accepting- in other words, a way that a person committed to excellence would,as opposed to a perfectionist would be constantly afraid of failure. And the mind doesn't the know the difference and the mind looks for consistency. And therefore,I'm able to be that way or much more likely to be that way because of the visualization. Also,meditation in and of itself helps. We'll talk about meditation- probably get to it on Thursday. Cause meditation puts us in a state of mind of calm, of acceptance,a state of being,as opposed to state of doing. And when we are in a state of being,we are here and now, we are enjoying the process, as opposed to constantly thinking about the destination, and what will happen if I don't get to that destination. But more on that on Thursday. This is a technique,method that I learn from Samuel Coleridge, the British philosopher, late 18th century and the beginning of the 19th century, one of the philosophers who influence our Ralph Waldo Emerson. And what Coleridge did- he had an issue with perfectionism and perfectionism as Winston Churchill later on said "means paralysis"- and he experienced this paralysis when he came to writing. Writing was the most important thing in his life. But he really couldn't write well. Because he was so afraid of not writing the ultimate essay, or the ultimate poem. So here was what he did: he said,"well,at the end of my life, I will write my magnum opus. Until then,everything is rough draft." And that liberated him. Because he wasn't worried any more. Now he never got to write his magnum opus. But at the meantime,he wrote dozens of beautiful poems- some of them the most beautiful in the English language and numerous very powerful, influential and beautifully crafted essays. And they were all "rough drafts". So there wasn't the pressure.This helped me a lot. Because what I do when I thought about this,I said,"OK. So let's see one of the domains- where perfectionism was very strong for me because it was an important domain- was teaching." Then I said to myself,"OK." And this was close to 10 years ago. I said,"in 20 years,I'm going to have a leadership institute in which I'm going to be teaching. Amazing workshops and seminars and lectures. Until then,everything is rough draft. Until then,everything is preparation." And that took off... Now I know this is a mental game. I mean I know I am "fooling myself". Because in 12 years from now,when that goal is actually, when I'm there 20 years later, I'm going to set another goal for 20 years later. To liberate me so that I can enjoy the here and now. So that I can enjoy the process, as opposed to be stuck on it having to be perfect, flawless everyday experience,which it can never be. So end goal can often be liberating. The Platinum Rule. So the Golden Rule: do not do unto others what you would not have done unto yourself" Or "do unto others what you would unto yourself." The foundation of most moral systems,most religions today. The Platinum Rule is taking the Golden Rule and switching it around. And what it says is, "do not do unto yourself what you would not do unto others." Or rather "do unto yourself what you do unto others." Now if a good friend of you,someone you really care about or a family member fails and doesn't do well, what you'll do with that person? Do you reject that person? "Oh you just got a B on this exam." Or "you didn't win this competition." Is that how you treat them? Or do you embrace them? And do you love them any less for it? Of course not. Then why do we apply these unrealistic and non-compassionate standards to ourselves? Now the Dalai Lama, when he was first introduced to a lot of Western culture, was baffled by one very particular thing: by our usage of a word,compassion. The word compassion in Tibetan is "tsewe", in English spelled "t-s-e-w-e". The word in Tibetan means compassion for others as well as for self. And he was really taking back by the notion that in English when we talk about,or in West in general- not just in English- when we talk about compassion, we talk about compassion for others. And he said,"how can you have compassion for others when you don't have compassion for yourself?" The foundation is the self. The Platinum Rule is about having compassion for ourselves as well. Not treating ourselves differently than we would others. Holding...Having similar standards. Accepting failure in the same way that we accepted in others, in people we love. After all,why not? How do we help other people? Because very often when we are in relationships, people are in relationships with a perfectionist or, we know a friend of ours is a perfectionist, how do we help other people? The first thing that is important to make very clear is that it is extremely difficult to help other people deal with perfectionism. It mostly has to come from within. They have to want a change. Because it takes time. Doesn't happen over night. I know it from research or I know it from personal experience. And yet,we can help,after accepting that it is difficult. The first most important thing to do is by example. If I can change, and become more a person committed to excellence, enjoy the journey,celebrate even failures, even falling down once in a while. Then I'm leading by example. And remember that experiment,right? People do what you do,rather than what you say. Second thing to do is to tell stories about it, which is what this lecture is essentially, the last two lectures were about- mostly,personal stories of how I moved or am moving from being a perfectionist to being committed to excellence. So telling stories,sharing. Again,the difference between sharing and telling: sharing,both of us get; telling is one way street. And finally,another way to,to help other people is remembering what Carol Dweck was all about. Rewarding effort.Rewarding the journey. It is so easy to fall into the track of rewarding outcome, and so easy to forget to reward the journey. I know that's difficult in child rearing with my kids. And it's certainly difficult in a relationship. It's certainly difficult being the boss or a friend. But to really focus on rewarding the journey, on pointing out "oh this was a great attempt" or "this was so much fun doing it"- the process. I want to end this lecture by introducing a mini summary of the course so far. This is a technique- quite a simple technique, but a technique that I found very powerful. Because what it does is synthesize a lot of what we discussed until now in the course. And this specific technique I apply to difficult situations when I'm facing periods in my life and it could be a long period or one day that is very difficult for me. You know,when I'm experiencing anxiety or stress, or strong levels,or high levels of disappointment. And this is the alternative in many ways to the three Ms- so remember the three Ms? Magnifying.Minimizing. And Making-up,inventing. So the three Ps are the alternative. The first p is the Permission to be human. So if I experience a difficult experience,I have some... I go through a hard time. The first step is to give myself permission and that would mean accepting of the emotion, accepting that is difficult,accepting reality. Something just happened; there is nothing I can do about what had just happened. What can change is perhaps my interpretation of what had happened which is where I get to the next level. The next step. And this is reframing,interpreting the situation as Positive. And that would be the benefit finder. What's the silver lining here? What is the growth opportunity here? So if I am going through a very difficult time, perhaps look at it through the Buddhist perspective and say, "well,this is a tool for growth; this will help me better understand myself as well as others, become a better psychologist,become a better business person, whatever it is. Seeing it again,the silver lining,the opportunity in failure. And finally, one very important technique that we didn't talk about much, just in passing,is distracting,distraction; is looking toward other place. It's not always good.In fact, we will talk about next time it's sometimes detrimental to stay and analyze every single emotion,feeling,thought that comes up. Ruminating in and of itself does not always help. Sometimes the best thing to do is when a negative thought comes up, or a negative feeling comes up is to distract ourselves from it by,for example, going to listen to a piece of music,going for a run, talking to someone either about that or something else. Now this is very different from avoiding. Because it is not about saying,"all right, I am not going to deal with any of the issues in my life." It's just saying that if there is a recurrent thought or feeling, and I'm experiencing a Sisyphean battle against it- you know, pushing the stone up and being pushed down again, up and down again. Sometimes it is better,more helpful to just say, "OK,I'm not going to ruminate; it's pointless. This neural pathway in my mind is being so reinforced. It's not going anywhere." And then to say,"let me move on. Let me listen to a nice piece of music. Let me go for a run that will really help get my mind off this." And very often what a run can do is also help me look at it in a different, through a different lens. And we'll talk about it,much more about this distraction, because it's nuanced,meaning we are not about avoiding. So we'll talk about it next, on Thursday when we talk about dealing with depression or dealing with anxiety,using meditation, using mindfulness as a kind of distraction. But that's also one way of looking at the positive. And finally,the third p is about taking Perspective. Is this really gonna matter? This is Richard Carlson's wonderful self-help book, "Don't Sweat the Small Stuff... and it's all Small Stuff". Now I don't necessarily agree with the second- "it's all small stuff",but certainly a lot of things that we sweat about in our lives are small stuff. Now the issue with not sweating the small stuff is asking a simple question: is this going to matter in a year? Or in a grand... You know,in a large schema of things,does it really matter? Is it worth my worrying,and fretting, and being depressed and upset and anxious about this now? Is this really going to matter in a year? And most of the times,it won't matter. The other side of this is that well,then does anything matter? A few years ago,I was asked a very simple question by a friend. And he said,"you know,just..." You know we haven't talked about before- this was a close friend. But..."Can you tell me what psychological maturity is? From your research, can you think about what psychological maturity is?" And off-the-cuff, at that moment- over time I revise the definition a little bit- I said the following: Psychological maturity is about the ability to willingly shift perspective. And I think it's more or less right.Again, looking at the research about this ability to shift perspective. Why? Or what is this ability to shift perspective? It's the ability when we want to be immersed in the here and now, in the present. And it's the ability to,when we want,take a step back, zoom out both in time and in space,and ask the question, "is this really going to matter? Or in a year? Or in a grand schema of things,space? Is this really important?" And at the same time,go back almost at will. Have this flexibility to go back and be immersed when listening to a beautiful piece of music, or spending time with people we love. And again,it's easier said than done. But over time,we can train our mind through meditation, through cognitively reframing things. We can train our mind to be able to make that shift almost at will. So let me give you an example of the three Ps applied. So this happened to me at the beginning of the semester, about two weeks into the semester. I was...I had to take Shirell,my daughter to day care. And I was running late.I was running really late. And you know what I like to do before lectures is to work out. Now I realized I was not going to have time to work out, I hardly had any time to go over the lecture notes that I do twice in the morning before the lecture. And I got upset.And I became stressed. Then I said,"OK.Let's take the three Ps and apply them." First P,permission.Acceptance. I said to myself,"OK.So you are stressed.So you are upset. It's OK to be upset.It's OK to be stressed. Even if you do teach positive psychology.It's all right." The second thing that I said- respect for reality. This is the beginning of the semester. A lot of things are happening. We had just arrived from Israel a couple of weeks earlier. A little bit of jet lag.The kids. Respect for reality.It is what it is. And then I moved on to positive. So what's the benefit here? So the first benefit is- well, I need to think more about where I can simplify, what I can say no to. Do less rather than more.So that's certainly a benefit there. Because it got me thinking about it. The second benefit that I thought about at that moment- "oh now I have another story to tell in class. An example of how I am applying the three Ps." Distraction- very easy. I had the best distraction right next to me. Shirell.And then,perspective. Is this really going to matter a year from now that I didn't exercise before a class and that I didn't go over lecture notes twice but only once before class? So I'm not gonna give a class which is 95 percent, but just 90 percent. Is this really going to matter? No. But at the same time,I said to myself, "I still want to be able to enjoy the here and now." So I took my time,spent time with Shirell, stayed with her a few more, extra minutes in day care- we played together, and then went home,much more relaxed,much calmer, having applied the three Ps to an actual situation that arose. Permission to be human- acceptance. Focusing on the positive- benefit finding. And finally,the ability to shift perspective- when do I want to zoom out and ask this, "do I need to sweat over it now? And when do I want to be immersed in the here and now?" Think about this technique.And again very simple. Now this technique is not equivalent to an inoculation, meaning it's not OK- now you learn the technique; I know about the three Ps. Now for the rest of my life,it's going to help me. That's not how it works. It works much more like a pill- that you need to take on a regular basis, meaning if you are going through a difficult time, apply the three Ps. And the more you apply them,the faster it is. Now very often as I mention,the term three Ps. Already automatically I go through that process. Permission.Positive.Perspective.It's much faster now. Because I used it.Because I practiced it. So use it constantly.Try a few times. Again,bring together a lot of the ideas that we have discussed in the course.OK. Year and a half ago, I had the privilege of spending a full day with Martin Seligman inviting me to his home. And we were sitting down in his beautiful rose garden, rose garden that he writes about often. And sitting and talking about positive psychology- it's past; it's present; and more than anything,it's future. We talked about education,about what he was doing in his classes as well as what I was doing in my classes. And then,halfway through the conversation, he suddenly stopped and said, "Tal,you know what the problem is with psychology today? Not just with positive psychology; with psychology today." And I said,"what?" Immediately taking out my notebook. And he said,"you know,the problem with psychology today is that our focus has mostly been neck up, whereas most of what happens to us is neck down." Our focus has been neck up; and most of what happens to us is neck down. Now hearing this was very important for me. It was double important hearing from Martin Seligman for various reasons. First of all,Martin Seligman has always been ahead of the game. He has,you know,brought cognitive psychology into... when it wasn't,it was hardly known, when behaviorism was dominant. So his research is ahead of his time. He brought positive psychology, or integrated it as a unified field of study. And Martin Seligman- also the second thing beyond him being a visionary and very important psychologist- he was also one of the founders of cognitive psychology. I mean,what is the cognitive therapy about? It's about neck up. And for him to say,we have been focusing too much on neck-up and we need to go neck down. That means he thought about it a lot. That means he really studied this phenomenon and really understands that we need a serious shift here. And he is very right. And this is the topic of the next two lectures. In fact what I'm going to offer you is a "wonder drug". And this is only for students in 1504. OK,the auditors as well. You can have that "wonder drug" too. And here is what the "wonder drug" is going to be doing for you. The "wonder drug" is going to make you feel good.Real good. Your self- esteem is going to increase significantly; you are going to be more confident about yourself, about who you are,about your place in the world, in social settings,on your own- you are just going to have higher levels of self-esteem.And we know that self-esteem is associated with tons of good stuff, which we'll talk about two weeks from now. You are going to feel much calmer,much more centered. You are even going to get smarter taking that drug. It's remarkable. I mean you are starting to get a little bit worried here. It's also going to make you more attractive. You are going to feel more attractive and you are going to exude more attractiveness. Again this drug has been tested time and again. And I'm talking... This is all research; this is not just whim. Here I am selling you something real, something that actually works.And I should add that there are no negative side effects to this drug. On the contrary,there are tons of positive side effects that I didn't even mention here. More than that,you can rest assure it's legal. I know you were concerned here,but you can take it. You can take it.You can handle it. You don't need to worry about it. And if anyone comes to you,and is concerned about how you suddenly changed as a result of this drug, you can send them to me. And finally,I'm not going to charge you for it. I should charge you for it. But I'm not a good business man, so I'm going to give it to you for free over the next two lessons And here is the drug. In fact,it's not just a drug.It's a cocktail. It's a cocktail of drugs, because they seem to work best in many situations. So here is the cocktail. I hope you are listening now. Because this is very important. The wonder drug: 30 minutes of physical exercise,4 times a week. The second component of the cocktail: at least 15 minutes of mindful exercise 6 or 7 times a week. The third component of this cocktail with all these benefits: 8 hours of sleep more or less per 24 hours. And the final component of the cocktail: 12 hugs a day. The last one- you can overdose on. Or rather you can- you can have as much as you like. But at least 12 hugs a day. If you take,if you take this drug... You may hug.That's fine. This is 1504! C'mon! But no sleeping in class. If you take this drug,this cocktail,I guarantee, I guarantee many of the benefits,if not all of the benefits and possibly many more benefits that I've just talked about before. You see today,only today, we are beginning to understand the connection between mind and body. One of the people,the first people to really understand who we'll talk about in next two classes is Jon Kabat-Zinn. In his wonderful book,"Full Catastrophe Living"- a phrase taken from Zorba the Greek, Jon Kabat-Zinn: "Perhaps the most fundamental development in behavioral medicine is the recognition that we can no longer think about health as being solely a characteristic of the body or the mind because body and mind are interconnected." This is essentially a rejection of hundreds of years of Western thinking. Cartesian dualism,René Descartes- "the mind and the body are two irreconcilable separate entities." And this permeated medicine. How do we "fix" a person like we fix a machine,we fix the body. The mind is something entirely separate from it. And again,Descartes didn't invent it. We can see seeds of Cartesian dualism in the works of plato, which then Aristotle tried to negate, recreating the mind/body connection, but again was made clear very evident in the West with Descartes in the 17th century. Then comes along Jon Kabat-Zinn; comes along Herbert Benson; comes along Ellen Langer; comes along Tara Bennett Goleman. Psychologists,doctors who understand the connections- comes along John Sarno,a medical doctor from NYU, New York University medical school and shows how with our thinking, we can overcome most of our back problems or Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, showing the connection between mind and body, or a placebo effect- staggering effects. Remember we talked about it- reversing the effect of Ipecac and asking how can we use that mind and body to help each other to launch a virtuous cycle between the two, while the mind helps body and body helps mind? I want to begin by talking about physical exercise- the first component of that cocktail, the first component of the wonder drug. What's happening today? Today there is reduction of physical work. More and more people today have the "luxury" of not having to physically work hard. And I put it in quotes,because it's one of the manifestations of the under-privilege of the privilege. You see,in the past,we have to run after a deer for lunch, or run away from a lion so that we don't become lunch. We had to gather berries for desert. What do we do today? Go to the desert table in our house. Or call out for pizza. In the past,we had to gather logs if we wanted to keep warm. Today what do we do? This exercise. Turn up the thermometer.And we pay a price. But you know when I grew up, when I was growing up in Israel,I remember... You know Israel is a Mediterranean country, 2 - 4 pm is siesta time.Very quiet. Kids are not out on the street. But at 4:00,sometimes even at 3:59, every day there was a shout from the street, calling "Taaaaal! Soccer!" Then calling other kids,"soccer!" Or "Hide and seek!" Or "running around!" That's what we did from 4 pm after siesta time until 9 when we went to sleep and mom called us to have dinner. What happens today in Israel? And not just in Israel,around the world,at 4 pm? It's not going down and playing soccer,and running around. It's continuing to be on the computer. It's continuing to watch television. And as a result of that,as a result of the fact, we have become so much more sedentary. We are paying a very high price. Of course on the physical level, but even more than that,on the psychological level. It is no coincidence that the levels of depression have gone up 10 fold. It is no coincidence since the 1960s- it is no coincidence that the average age the onset of depression today is just under 15. Or as in 1960s,the average onset of depression was around 30. It is because we have stopped exercising. We have stopped exerting effort and energy. It is no coincidence that the levels of ADD and ADHD are skyrocketing- not to mention,and I'll mention later, the physical consequences of sedentary life. You see exercise is not a luxury; it's a need. And it's a need just like oxygen; it's a need just like certain vitamins or a need just like protein and carbohydrates- our needs. We weren't made, we weren't born to sit in front of a computer all day long, or just to talk all day long. Yeah we are meant to do it at the end of the day after we have hunted and gathered. And whether it's by God,or whether it's by evolution,or both, we now have a need for physical exercise. And when we frustrate a need,whether it's a need for vitamins, whether it's a need for protein or a need for exercise, we pay a price- both physical price as well as psychological price. Seneca- over 2000 years ago,the Greek philosopher: "Our forefathers lived every jot as well as we, when they provided and dressed their own meat with their own hands; lodged upon the ground, and were not as yet come to the vanity of gold and gems." This is Seneca,a very thoughtful philosopher, talking about the lack of physical exercise that existed in his time. How much more is it today? When today we are living in our age, the way that not even royalty lived just 100 or 200 years ago, the easy life,the luxurious life, and it's the under-privilege of the privilege. We are paying the price for it. Let's see what our psychologist has to say about this. Ellen DeGeneres on the state of affairs. [VIDEO]Ellen DeGeneres "HERE AND NOW": We're lazy.We have buttons doing everything. There is no physical activity attached to anything anymore. Even the garage door opening- we used to get out of the car and open up the garage door. Now there is a button you push,you know. And the car window. This became too much! I don't want to turn buttons I just wanna fresh air! We still use that gesture if we want someone to roll their window down in traffic. We still use that.Even now nobody's got it. Because we'd look like idiots if we did this. We're lazy.We used to have breath mints. Now we have breath strips. They just dissolve all on our tongue for us. How lazy..Can we not suck anymore? Aa..put it on...I'm tired! Aaa...I had a hard day! Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:Let me share with you a few studies about the effect of this kind of life style. This was done by Michael Babyak and his colleagues at Duke Medical School. This was a very important study that launched other numerous studies that replicated this and showed how this applies, how exercise is important just for depression, also for other areas. So what Michael Babyak did was bringing in 156 patients with major depression. These are people who have a number of symptoms, among which are insomnia,eating disorders,listlessness- lack of desire to act,depressed mood, many of them suicidal with attempts or thoughts about suicide and on and on. These people who are in bad,very bad shape. And he brought them into the lab and randomly divided them into 3 groups. The first group was the exercise group; second group was put on medication; and the third group was put on medication and exercise. The kind of medication was the antidepressant,Zoloft, the second most popular,common antidepressant after Prozac- very powerful; works. A lot of studies,compared to placebos,showing that Zoloft works An SSRI. The exercise that they were put on was 30 minutes of moderate difficulty- so aerobic physical exercise- so it could be jogging or race-walking; it could be swimming. Not too hard,but moderate difficulty of exercise. Three times a week for 30 minutes. And then he followed these three groups: exercise group,the medication group, and the exercise & medication group- followed them for 4 months. And here are the results. What do you want to see? – How many of the 156 patients,or 52 per group, how many of them get over their major depression? And what he found was that in each one of the three groups, over 60 percent got better by the end of the 4 months. They were not experiencing the symptoms of major depression anymore, or most of the symptoms at the very least. They were no longer,could no longer be categorized by the DSM-IV as having major depression. There was no significant difference among the groups except for one difference: the group that exercised only- it took them a little bit longer to get over their major depression. So with the medication,it usually took probably around, between 1 or 2 weeks,around 10 days to overcome their depression for the 60 percent who were helped. For the exercise only group,it took closer to a month. But after the first month,once they got better, there was no difference. All three groups benefited as much. Now very important point: this does not mean that we should do away with antidepressants or anti-anxiety pills or Ritalin for ADD/ADHD. Not at all. What it is saying though that we need to perhaps first ask whether exercise is, or lack there of is the underlying reason for the experience. Now why should not we do away if the results are very similar between exercise and medication? Why shouldn't we do away with medication? Here is why. You see,let's say...Let me just draw this circle. No.Let's say this is the total population of people who are depressed. We know that Zoloft, or antidepressant medication helps about 60 percent of them. And we know that exercise also helps 60 percent. However,it is not the same 60 percent. There is overlap by definition, because it is more than 50 percent. But it doesn't help the same people. So there are people who are only helped by medication; there are people who are only helped by exercise; and there are people who are helped by both. So it's not saying let's do away with medication. It is important.It helps. However it also says "let's try exercise, because I may be helped by exercise and not medication, or I may be helped by both. Here is the clincher though in the study: so what we are looking for,as I look in all these studies, is the relapse rates,meaning 6 months after the end of the study when we no longer give medication, when we no longer push the participants to exercise three times a week at least,what happens after 6 months? And here is what they found: the relapse rate of the group on medication only- 38 percent out of the 60+ percent who got better returned back and had the major depression again,38 percent,over a third; the group that did medication and exercise- relapse rate of 31 percent, just under a third of the 60+ percent who got better; relapse rates of the exercise group only- and remember they could continue exercise or not; that was entirely up to them- the relapse rate of the exercise only group,9 percent. Remarkable results. Similar results earlier than the year 2000, all the way back in 1984 for dysthymia. Dysthymia is usually longer lasting, but less acute form of depression. So it's a deep feeling of sadness. Lasts for much longer than major depression. But also exercise helps this. Now when I first saw this study again there are dozens, there are hundreds of studies by now, replicating this phenomenon on different, different areas- as I'll talk about in a minute, I said,"wow! This is amazing!" So exercise is like taking antidepressant- seems like it. Exercise is like taking antidepressant. But when I thought about further, I realized that wasn't the case. It's not that exercising is like taking an antidepressant, it's rather that not exercising is like taking a depressant. This is more than just a semantic difference. This is more than just a semantic difference. Why? Because you see,we weren't made to be sedentary. We weren't made to sit in front of the computer or in the classroom. We were made to run after that deer or run away from that lion. And we frustrate a need,as we've talked about earlier, we frustrate a need,we pay a price. So let's say our God-given or genes-given level of happiness, our base level of happiness is here. Our set point or set range is here. When we don't exercise, what we are doing is that we are lowering that base level to here If our normal level is here, what we are doing when we don't exercise, we are lowering it to here. And then whereas we could have lived our life up here with all the vicissitudes,and hopefully upward spiral, what we are doing is we are living our lives the same ups and downs- only a much lower level here. And we struggle just to get to our God-given or genes-given level of happiness. You know I'm not a clinical psychologist.I'm not a therapist. However, if I were one,a prerequisite for me for treating people, for working with people would have been physical exercise, or at the very least, being my No.1 priority of helping them to physically exercise. Cause very often they would come because they don't have the motivation perhaps to exercise. But that would be my No.1 priority, either to make it a prerequisite for being treated or to make it a top priority. Why? Because I don't want to fight nature. I don't want to fight nature so that the person I'm working with gets to their God-given or genes-given level of well being. I want to work with nature. Nature to be commanded must be obeyed. One of the dictates of nature is that we need to be physically active. Now I was just talking about this over dinner- I had dinner with Dave Fish,the tennis coach and his wife, Bonnie Mosland,who is a clinical therapist. And she told me,"yeah." You know she's been treating people for years. "That's what I do. Prerequisite for treatment with me is physical exercise." So there are apprently psychologists who understand the importance of exercise. Why fight nature here? When you can start and the base level can be here? Some other benefits- again all based on research. You've read some of it in your readings, but more benefits to exercise. First psychological benefit: self-esteem. On a few levels- first of all,bodily self-esteem, we feel better about ourselves; and also general self-esteem,we feel better about ourselves. State as well as trait self-esteem increases. In other words,as we feel right after we exercise but also as we feel in the long term if we have a regular exercise regime. So both state as well as trait self-esteem is increased. Anxiety and stress- one of the things that is most susceptible to exercise. You know Tammy can tell, my wife can tell if I have exercise for more than 48 hours. You know when I come home, she would say,"when did you last exercise?" Why? Because she feels. she has the sense of you know, a little bit rough around the edges,a little bit more tense. Again,as I mentioned in previous classes, I have inclination for anxiety. Exercise is my drug.It's my wonder drug. At the very least,every other day.At the very least. It's been used very successfully for numerous clinical disorders. Even schizophrenia. In conjunction with,not itself, in conjunction with therapy and various drugs. But it enhances the likelihood of a success if you exercise as well. Also ADD and ADHD- not always enough,but very often enough. People who exercise and exercise regularly- much more likely to get over ADD and ADHD. Why? Because there are numerous effects on our brain, numerous effects on our brain. For example,the exact same chemicals that are released when we form new neural pathways- remember neurogenesis or neuroplasticity- the exact chemicals that we need to form new neural pathways are created when we exercise. In other words,after we go for a run. This is the time when our brain is most susceptible to creating new neural pathways. So if you exercise in the morning,during the day, you retain much better the material you have read or you have heard. You are much more creative after exercise, I mean if you have exercise for a few days. And also it helps us release these chemicals in the exact right amount- no more,no less than we need. Why? Because this is nature.Knows best what we need. And we release these exact right amount of chemicals that we are at our best. This is by the way why again as I mentioned earlier religiously I run before every lecture.Well,I don't always run. I like running outside but it's not always possible. So I jump on my trampoline at home. I have you know one of the small ones. And I jump on them.And I have my pulse meter on me. Shouldn't have told you this? No.OK. And I can feel when I haven't, when I don't exercise before lecture. You know,for example,when I travel, I arrive right before lecture and don't have time to work out, I can feel when I read, my retention rates,my concentration levels, cause as I said earlier,I have mild case of ADHD. And again,exercise is my drug. Physical benefits. Again I am not saying anything new to you here. But here is a way to think about it. We all have a genes/God-given level of weight, of the right weight for us. Now when we exercise,we are there. And that is healthy.That is where we should be. When we don't exercise we are going above this weight. Just like we go below our base level of well being. In other words,what exercise does is simply bring us back to where we are supposed to be all along, which explains why most diets fail if not associate with physical exercise as well. Because our bodies will always fight to go back to the base level to where we are supposed to be. And if we don't exercise,we will struggle even harder. Chronical disease,whether it's diabetes, whether it's heart disease,whether it's cancer. Once again numbers are staggering,absolutely staggering. Diabetes,certain types of diabetes were only experienced by people 45 years and older. Today kids in elementary school are getting this kind of diabetes and the association is mostly because of nutrition and lack of exercise. People who exercise are much less prone to these chronical diseases. Reducing significantly the likelihood of diabetes; reducing by 50 percent or more the likelihood of heart failure and the likelihood of certain kinds of cancer. By over 50 percent reducing their likelihood- again,a wonder drug. People who exercise regularly have a stronger immune system. Well I have to prep you for this. And finally if you haven't been convinced until now, hopefully this will convince you. (Better Sex) Both men and women. Strengthens libido- their sexual desire; enhances the likelihood of orgasms. People who exercise more regularly have more and better sex. Again,a lot of research showing this. And by the way,this applies to all ages. To all ages.Well,not all ages.I hope.21 and on. Now the important thing to remember about exercise- it is not a panacea. It's not a fix-all. Remember not everyone benefits from exercise. There are some people for whom medication is absolutely the right thing and it's important. However,in many situations,and it's eveident by,by literature, by research- in most situations,exercise can help. Even it's not on its own. Even in conjunction with something else.It helps. And again why fight nature? Why fight it? Nature to be commanded must be obeyed. What's very important is recovery. Let me read you something that Dienstbier and Zillig write about in the Handbook of Positive Psychology to researchers in the field: " Repeated workouts that are too intense to allow complete recovery may cause endurance athletes to experience 'staleness,' a syndrome that is characterized by increased psychological symptoms of anxiety with increased sympathetic nervous system, catecholamine,and cortisol base levels." Now what they are saying here is that there can be too much of a good thing. And this is especially important for perfectionists to understand It doesn't mean that more is always better when it comes to exercise. There is too much- and some of the symptoms of overtraining are very similar to the symptoms of undertraining. Higher levels of anxiety,higher levels of staleness, lack of motivation, as well as ultimately could lead to depression. This is a symptom of a perfectionism. This is something that I experience when I was an athlete- overtraining,not recovering enough,and paying the price. Physically of course with injuries,but also psychologically. What I recommend is between 1 to 4 days of rest a week. Ideally you want to exercise 5 or 6 times a week; at minimum I would say every other day. So it could be 3 or 4 days a week. At minimum every other day. Ideally you may want a little bit more than that. Each time,about 30 minutes; could go all the way up to an hour. The key here is to listen to your body. If your body is hurting beyond the slight discomfort of exercise which is natural,stop. If your muscle hurts,stop. Or on the side of too little rather than too much. Also one of the ways to listen to your body if you are not as sensitive to it, is putting on a heart rate monitor, which is something not very expensive,very useful,very helpful. So I know my exercise would be around 70 percent of maximum heart rate. 70 percent of maximum heart rate for me is about 128. So exercise around between 120 and 135. And then once in a while I also introduce interval training, while I go all the way up to 90 percent, which is about 165 heart rate for me. But very easy to find out about you know what your heart rate is- usually maximum heart rate is around 220 minus your age. So if you are 20 your maximum is to 200. Mine,being 37,is 183. Again,more or less. And then you want to be around 70 percent of it. 65 percent to 75 percent of it for moderate effective benefit of exercise. And to keep in mind that the quantity does affect quality. And once again we have the graph that we see so often: the curve linear relationship. So if on this side of the graph, we had psychological plus physiological benefit, and here we have effort or amount of work, the graph looks like this,where too little effort is not good. We are compromising on our base level of happiness. Too much effort is also not good. That's when we experience the staleness and the anxiety.And what we want to get to is more or less around our optimum level. And also optimum level given how much time we have. Yeah,in an ideal world, I would work out six times a week for one hour each time. In an ideal world.But I want to do many other things. So I exercise at least 4 times a week,30 minutes each time. It's good enough for me.Identify what's good enough for you. Recovery is important. We talked about recovery on the psychological level. Recovery is very important. Let me share with you just a quick story about Derek Clayton. Derek Clayton was a runner in the early 60s, one of the best long distance runners in the world. One of the best- not the best. He ran marathons. And the reason why he wasn't the best,many people said,well, because physically he wasn't that fit or suitable for marathons. He was 6 ft 2 in,tall- 1 meter 88. His veil too max,his maximum heart... maximum oxygen capacity was not that high, as high as the top runners in the world. But what he had going for him was that he was the hardest worker on the circuit. He would run in excess of 100 miles a week. Way over 100 miles a week.Worked very hard. Sorry.I wrote it down. Yeah,over 100 miles each week. And he became one of the best runners in the world, but never got to be at the very best. And then what happened? Because of his hard work,over-exertion, he got injured quite seriously and couldn't run for a whole month, as he was training for one of the most important marathons in- this marathon was in Japan. So for a whole month,couldn't train. Hardly walked. About a week before,he started just very lightly jogging. And he said he'll run in Japan. He was invited there.He was one of the best runners in the world. He said he'll use it as a training run, as part of his training regime for the next marathon. So he comes to this marathon, having not trained for over a month, breaks his best personal records by 8 minutes and becomes the first person in history to run a marathon in under 2 hours and 10 minutes. Running it in 2 hours 9 minutes and 36 seconds. 1967. Continues to train hard.2 years later,over-trains again. Gets injured again. And once again,for over a month he can't run at all and then enters the Belgium marathon. Breaks his own personal best,breaks the world record: 2 hours 8 minute and 33 seconds, a world record,world best that holds for 12 years. This is when trainers and athletes began to understand the importance of tapering,the importance of taking time off, the importance of recovery. There can be too much of a good thing. Very similar story.Joan Benoit. Ended up winning the 1984 Los Angeles Marathon after having been injured and having,was forced to take time off The Danish Soccer team. Another example.I think that's 1991. Ended up winning the European Championship after being out of the competition, being brought in the last minute because Yugoslavia was just breaking apart at the time. So they came in as a replacement for Yugoslavia, literally taking the Danish team after it was eliminated from prelims, bringing them from the beach to play the tournament. But they had recovered,they were refresh,they were ready to go. Recovery is important in sports. It's important on the psychological level. OK.So exercise is good.It's the wonder drug. The first part of the cocktail, I would argue,well,one of the most important ones. And yet,most people,not at Harvard necessary, but most people around the world don't exercise. What are some of the barriers that we need to overcome in order to introduce exercise regularly into our lives? First,it is painful. It's not comfortable to exercise at say 70 percent of our maximum heart rate. Doesn't hurt that much,but it's more comfortable to sit in front of the television or play Nintendo. So what do we do? The first thing that we can do is divide and conquer. One of the things that especially perfectionists do is that "OK,so I'm going to start exercising. And to be fit,I need to do 6 miles a day. And that's what I'm going to start running.6 miles a day." And of course what happens very quickly? The next day you get up and you are hurt. But you are a perfectionist. You are tough.No pain,no gain. And you go out for a run again. And what happens? You hurt even more the next day. But you push through the pain. After a few weeks,you get injured. But even if you don't get injured,the schema that is created in your mind about exercise is the following. It is "exercise equals pain". Now our mind does not like pain.And it tries to avoid pain. So let's say you go on a holiday.You stop your exercise regime. You stop your exercise regime for a week or two weeks. And you come back. It becomes exceedingly difficult to go back exercising. Why? Because you mind,subconscious mind says, "I don't want to experience this again." And it prevents you.It paralyzes you. This is very often the procrastination that comes through. Because we don't want to experience that pain. A much healthier approach is to say "OK. So I'll start with walking for a mile. For 10 minutes,20 minutes walk. Do it for a week or two weeks.And then build it up gradually. And again,earn the side of doing too little rather than too much Because then exercise, if I build it up gradually,is not about pain. Overtime it even becomes sort of addictive in a positive sense of word, that we want to do it,that we long for it. So doing it gradually.Also use distracters. When I jump on my trampoline- when I run outside,I have no problem- but when I jump on my trampoline,I have to add distracters. It is so boring for me. Again,some people can be on the bike for an hour. And they are fine. For me it's meditation and that's great. But many people need distracters,whether it's music, whether it's TV,whether it's my kids running around, but having something that keeps us going. Social support. The No.1 predictor of exercise success for the long term is do I do it with other people; do I have the social support to do it. And once again,this is not right for everyone. There are certain people for whom the right thing is to do it by themselves. This is the time, especially introverts will enjoy just being on their own. Just closing their eyes,listening to their music, or listening to their heart rate,whatever it... You know heart beating. But they want time by themselves.And that's fine. But for most people social support helps.Here is the study. This is done by Wing and Jerry,two psychologists. What they did was introduce individuals to a 4 month program that included behavioral change,that included diet change and that included exercise change for 4 months. The two conditions were either with social support- doing it with your friend and a family member, or without social support. Those without social support,who did it by themselves, 76 percent completed the 4 month program and 24 percent were still doing it 6 months later. So 76 percent did it during the 4 months; 24 percent only,less than a quarter,did it 6 months later. Kept up with the behavioral,exercise as well as diet change. The group that had social support, 95 percent completed the 4 months. 95 as opposed to the 76 percent. And 67 percent continued with the regime once the study was over for 6 months later. So it enhanced the likelihood of success a great deal. Let me show you one last example of social support. [VIDEO] OK.So this is not exactly what I mean. But social support helps. So start if you haven't started,start today. I'll see you on Thursday. [Applause] 



 Chapter 16: 运动与冥想


Students:OK.So as many of you may have already heard, the American Cancer Society Fund Raiser Relay for Life is this Friday day night at Gordon Track. The event increases awarenesses and raises money for cancer education,research and treatment. It's not too late to get involved either. By registering online,donating to a participant or showing upat the event to see what it's all about. At the event,we will have Root Beer Beirut, Accapella and band performances,and Miss Relay pageant, and movies and games and all the wild people will be walking last round the track, remember those lost, celebrate survivors and hope for a future here. Look up for emails and check out our Facebook group for more information. I hope to see you all there.Thanks. [Applause] Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: Hi.Good morning. We are going to pick up where we are left of last time. But before we do,a few of you came to me after the class and asked about alternative form of exercise. So the study that I gave and also what you read- the article by Callaghan and others, is mostly about aerobic exercise. And as I mentioned earlier, this is about moderate intensity workout, which would mean if you want to work with pulse about 70 percent, between 65 and 75 percent of your maximum heart rate- again you just Google heart rate exercise, you'll immediately get all the tables that you need. But that's one form of exercise. Some of you asked, "what about weight training? What about interval training?" So sprints and stop.Sprints and stop. Something that you know the crew team does often, athletes do often. What about this form? The reason why I didn't bring it up explicitly in the lecture is because the jury is still out on the different forms of exercise. But let me tell you what are some of the trends that we see in research. Right now it seems that if there's only one form of exercise that you do, the best bank for the buck, best value for your time would be aerobic exercise. 3,ideally 4 times,30 minutes of aerobic exercise a week. That's at minimum. However,however, if you can also do weight training and supplement the physic... the aerobic exercise,that's terrific.That's great. Twice a week,3 times of weight training is great, especially as you get older. That...Weight training contributes more. But also at a very young age,weight training is good. However,it is not a replacement for aerobic exercise. It hasn't shown to have the same psychological effect as aerobic exercise does. The other form of exercise and it has been studied- again these are all tentative results; there've been pilot studies about it. The ends, the sample sizes are not large enough yet to say definitively, just like we can say about aerobic exercise, it has similar effect to some of our most powerful psychiatric drugs. That's definitive- there are tons of studies on it ever since Babyak in 2000 as well as before. But another form of exercise that has begun to be studied with some very promising results is interval training. Interval training would be,say,running at, between 90 and 95 percent of your maximum heart rate. So if you are 20,your maximum heart rate would be,would be 200, because it's 220 minus your age. Then you need to be running at around at 180 to 190 pulse rate, which is hard,which is tough, which you can't do for a very long time. But doing it for as little as 30 seconds up to a minute and then resting, letting your heart rate go back down to 60 percent of its maximum say 120,and then doing another interval. That has been shown with pilot studies only to have remarkable effects. In fact,often more powerful than aerobic exercise on its own, and lasts for even longer- the effect. So- again, I did not introduce it officially as part of the class, but since many of you asked,I am introducing it. Because I want to introduce you only things that are with very robust results. John Ratey talks about this. And I'll talk a little bit about John Ratey in a minute. He's the Harvard Medical psychatrist who is probably the leading proponent in research in the area of exercise and mental health. And he himself- even though the results are still tentative, he introduces two interval trainings a week. So in addition to working out six days a week, two of them include full out sprinting,rest, full out sprinting,rest. And what they've shown was that even less time than 30 minutes, you can get the same effect, the same psychological effect and even better. What I do twice a week: I introduce interval training. So for example, this morning when I was on my trampoline,I did it for 30 minutes. And out of the 30 minutes,there were 4 sprints. Indeed.(Laughter) You don't believe that I do trampoline,do you? I'll videotape it and I'll...Maybe not.Maybe not. So 4 sessions of sprints,and I have my heart monitor on, going all way- for me it's about 165 heart rate, between 165 and 170,and then resting,going back to about 110, which is less than 60 percent of my maximum, and then doing it four times. And for the rest of the 30 minutes, I just do moderate aerobic exercise. So I also introduce the interval training. The weight training I do less of,because I get that from Yoga- a lot of the strengthening exercises. The most important thing though that I do want to say about interval training is that, especially for perfectionists, it's very easy to over-train. You don't want to get to your maximum heart rate and keep it there for a long time,even if you can. More does not necessarily mean better. Again,unless you are training for Olympics, in which case you do want to get to 100 percent of your maximum heart rate at times, for maximum health you want to get to 90 percent, maximum 95 percent of your maximum heart rate, which is why a heart rate monitor can help so much. Because it can tell you when you are working too hard or when it's too easy. Bottom line: variety is good for exercise. If you can introduce dancing,it's great exercise. If you can introduce,once in a while working in the gym, once in a while playing basketball, rowing- the more variety,the better. But the foundation: at least we,ideally 4 times a week, 30 minutes of aerobic exercise. So we stopped last time with overcoming barriers. And some of the barriers are that it's difficult there are some pain associated with it, even if you are at 70 percent of your heart rate. It's still uncomfortable. And ways to deal with it is at least as you get into it, cause very often we enter the zone when we start to run, we don't feel the difficulty any more. But at least the beginning is important. Have social support to divide and conquer,to build gradually, and to have distracters,such as TV,and your MP3, and whatever it is. Another barrier- and this one is, unfortunately very common here on campus, is just we don't have time. You know in high school, I do give a lot of talks in high schools,and one of the things that I see there is that students generally, in many high schools actually have to be part of a team. They have to,in addition to doing physical exercise,PE, they also have to be part of a team. So they get not enough,but more exercise, whereas one of the first things that go in college, especially or only for students who do not play on the team, one of the first things that go is exercise. I don't have time.I have so many things that I want to do. It's a new world. Well,it's also the first things that goes during exam period, because I'm so stressed. I have so many things to do. Well,it should be the last thing to go. It should be the last thing to go. Why? Because it is an investment. You may be losing the 45 minutes. You know, working out for 30 minutes and showering after which I recommend. You may lose that 45 minutes. But you'll gain so much more.It's such a good investment. Why? Because your memory actually gets better when you exercise. So you'll get more buck for the bank in terms of time you study; your creativity levels go up; your concentration, whether you have ADD or not,especially if you have or you have a tendency toward ADD or ADHD, but even for people without it, concentration goes up significantly. Energy levels go up significantly.So it's a very good investment. Remember I told you the story when I stopped exercising at the end of the squash season? And suddenly I said,"oh I have so much time." And I ended up getting so much less done. A,because I don't have the rituals; and B,because I wasn't as focused, I wasn't as creative,I wasn't as energized. It should be the last thing to go,especially, especially during a stressful period such as exam period. One way to overcome the time commitment again is not relying on self-discipline. We have established that before; we saw the research- we have a limited amount of self-discipline. Create rituals where, say,3 mornings during the week you'll do it; or if a good time for you is the afternoon or evening, but have a ritual around it. Another barrier to exercising regularly- this is an interesting one and often overlooked but extremely powerful- and that is the subconscious barrier. Nathaniel Branden talks about this and I talked about it a little bit in my book,quoting him. He talks about self-esteem and part of self-esteem is the notion that we are worthy of happiness The notion of being worthy of happiness. And when you ask people,"are you worthy of happiness?" Most people would say,"yes." But if you ask the subconscious, very often,for many people,it's "no", whether it's because of the voice that we heard in the past from teachers,educators,parents,significant adults, society at large by comparing us to unrealistic models. But very often we have this voice,the subconscious level that "we are not really worthy of happiness". And that is a barrier; that stops us from becoming happier. Now one of the things that we know of exercise is that it's one of the- if not the most power drug for making us happier Now I know that exercise makes me happier; it makes me feel good. But if my subconscious thinks that I'm unworthy of these feelings,unworthy of being happy, it may in fact stop me from exercising. Why? Because remember, mind doesn't like when there is an inconsistency between what's inside and what's outside. And if what's inside is saying "shouldn't be happy" then I try to match it to what's inside. And I don't exercise. Because if I do exercise,then there will be a disconnect- I'll be happier than I think I'm worthy of. There's a lot of research on this. For example,by psychologist Bill Swann, who talks about self-confirmation theory, which is a very powerful force within us. There's a self-enhancement, that we want to appear good in other people's eyes,in our eyes, but there is a counter-force,which is self-confirmation where we want to confirm whatever we think about ourselves. And if we think we are not worthy of happiness, we very often not do things that actually make us happy. We see it in other areas- in relationships,for example. If I think I'm unworthy of a wonderful partner, of being happy in relationships, very often I'll often inadvertently subconscious working here, jeopardize the relationship and look for things that are not working,actively, subconsciously look for ways of hurting the relationship. So we need to be aware of the subconscious level. And very much it applies to whether or not we exercise. So what do we do with this? A best thing to do is to just do it. Again,ritualize it. Not analyze it too much.Just go ahead and exercise. You know 3,4 times a week is good for you,just do it. And again it's the five-minute take-off that subconscious mind will try to tell you, "don't do it.You don't have the time.There are other things. You'll do it tomorrow.Next week you'll start the regime." The subconscious mind is very smart in its attempt,and will do anything that it can almost to create this congruency. When you go out and exercise and you show yourself, "yes I'm worthy of happiness." Very often the subconscious mind will follow suit. So just do it. The second thing is recognize.This is on the cognitive level. Recognize how important physical exercise is. Remember what Martin Seligman said,"we mostly focus on neck up"- and we do it as psychologists, we do it as students in academic institution, especially in a place like this. So much about thinking and cognition. That's how you got here.That's how you were successful. But it's no less important to think about neck down. In fact,the mind alone can only take us so far when it comes to happiness,which is why I told you if I were a therapist,a pre-requisite for me to treat people would be to have them exercise regularly. Because I don't want to fight nature. I want to work with nature and build on it. Exercise in many ways is the "unsung hero" of the psychological interventions. It helps on so many levels. John Ratey- mentioned him; Harvard Medical School professor,psychiatrist: "In a way, It works on anxiety,on panic disorder,and on stress in general, which has a lot to do with depression. And it generates the release of neurotransmitters- norepinephrine,serotonin,and dopamine- that are very similar to our most important psychiatric medicines Having a bout of exercise is like taking a little bit of Prozac and a little bit of Ritalin,right where it is supposed to go." The exact right amount of it.The exact right location. And without side effects, or with side effects- positive side effects, physical as well as mental and emotional side effects. What John Ratey is calling for in his wonderful,wonderful book- just came out recently in this January- what he calls for is an exercise revolution. And he backs up this call with a lot of scientific evidence of why it is so important. Let me show you just one area that he talks about. He talks about all ages. He talks about kids,adults,as well as the elderly population. And it has positive effects for every age,from 0 to 120. Let me talk about a couple of studies and findings that were implement-that exercise was implemented in schools. So there are a few schools that introduce physical exercise as an integral part of the curriculum. For example,and this is,has been replicated in a few schools- every morning,45 minutes of some form of exercise- usually running,sometimes rowing,cycling,climbing. There is a school in New Jersey that actually put a climbing wall where students exercised. But some form of the aerobic exercise, sometimes intertwined with interval training. Every morning,before school,45 minutes a day. Some of the schools had it later during the day; most of them in the mornings. Here are some of the results from some of the schools that actually introduced it: obesity levels,not surprising,went down. For example in Naperville in Illinois,in the district there where physical exercise was introduced in school,- which is by the way interesting because in most schools... Just yesterday I gave a talk at Horace Mann and the teachers told me that in many of these schools in New York, physical exercise has been taken out rather than more of it is introduces- physical exercise and art both taken out. Why? Because they have to get the grades- neck up. And that's a pity.And they pay a price. So obesity in a school in Naperville or in the district of Naperville in Illinois, obesity levels went down from 30 percent to 3 percent among the students. That has repercussions not just for the students lives there- that they are more comfortable,that they are happier; it has repercussions and consequences for the rest of their lives. They are much less susceptible and prone to the chronic illnesses such as cancer,heart failure. It's a win-win on so many level. Much less susceptible to diabetics. So that's obesity. What they also find in Naperville is that the grades went up significantly. In fact,usually the US doesn't do very well, doesn't do very well when it comes to those international tests, maths and science tests that they do I think usually at 8th grade Well,Naperville is an exception. They scored No.16 in the world in mathematics and No.1 in the world in science. Now people argue that Naperville is an affluent neighborhood or district and it's true. How about other places? Well they introduced exercise in very poor areas,in inner cities For example, in Titusville,Pennsylvania,where many people are way below, the average is way below the average income for the state. When before they introduced the exercise,school performance- they were significantly below state average, Pennsylvania's average. After introducing exercise within a year, they went up to 17 percent above state average. With the only change being there in that year- introducing physical exercise. They've seen this in other schools in other districts as well. And what they also saw in the same school, in Titusville,that fist fights,for example they noticed, violence disappeared completely as a result of the exercise, while they found also in a school in Iowa where they introduced physical exercise, disciplinary problems went down from 225 to 95 in one year. In another school in Kansas,also inner city, disciplinary problems went down by 67 percent after they introduced exercise. We are much less likely to be violent; it calms us; it brings us to our natural state of being, which is much calmer as opposed to being angry and upset. And people need to let out that steam. Unfortunately very often that steam is let out in fights with aggression. And this is a much healthier way to divert that healthy energy. Let me show you a clip from one of my favorite movies, Legally Blonde. And it's the part where a woman is just being charged with the murder of her husband.And our very own law school graduate Reese Witherspoon defends her. Whoops! Let me get to it.Thank you. Videos.Legally...Here it is. [VIDEO- Clip from "Legally Blonde"] We're defending Brooke Windham,whose very wealthy husband was found shot to death in their Beacon Hill mansion. Gold digger? You'd think so since the stiff was sixty, but she was rich on her own. Some kind of fitness empire. You can buy her exercise tapes on infomercials. Are you talking about Brooke Taylor? Maiden name--Taylor.You know her? She's a Delta Nu! She wasn't in my pledge class. She graduated four years before me. But I used to take her class at the Los Angeles Sports Club. She's amazing! Amazing? How? She can make you lose three pounds in one class. She's completely gifted. In all likelihood,she's completely guilty as well. I just don't think Brooke could have done this. Exercise gives you endorphins. Endorphins make you happy. Happy people don't shoot their husbands. They just don't. Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: There you go.Sorry. You know in the book I talk about the happiness revolution. And I think based on a lot of research that the foundation for a happiness revolution has to come with an exercise revolution. Why? Because if we don't exercise,we are fighting against nature So the foundation,the basis for the happiness revolution has to start neck down through the body. Let me move on to a second mind body intervention and that is meditation. So what is meditation? I was first introduced to it through Yoga. I got injured,playing squash,my back. They told me Yoga would help.I started Yoga. It helped my back and I got so much more out of it. In fact,so much more out of it that I'm doing my teacher training now with Debbie Cohen, and will become a Yoga instructor, hopefully very soon if she passes me. There are other forms of mindful meditation- sitting meditation; there is Tai Chi,Qi Gong; there is meditation that just focuses on the breath; there is meditation that focuses compassion. There are a few common elements to most types of meditation. Let me mention a few of them. First of all,it's focusing on one thing, whether it's the movement,whether it's the posture, whether it's the breath, whether it's compassion and loving and kindness, whether it's a flame. Whatever it is,but it's focusing... Whether it's a prayer.It's focusing on one thing. Usually most forms of meditation- the foundation is deep breathing. In a sense the way a baby breathes. Belly breathing- breathe all the way to your belly and then slowly,gently,gracefully breathing out. Deep breathing is usually the foundation- whether it's Tai Chi,Yoga,or sitting meditation. And finally,there is no good or bad meditation. Meditation in a sense doesn't have a purpose when you are meditating. You are giving yourself the permission to be human. There is no "ah I just had an amazing meditation," or "I just feel enlightened." In fact,let me tell you a story about how I became enlightened through meditation. So last year,I used to travel quite a bit. We lived in Israel, but I travelled once a month on average to the US for a few days. And when I travelled here, I used to give talks but also used that time as a form of retreat And what I would do was I practiced a lot of Yoga, much more than I did in Israel. I did a lot of meditation.I had a lot of time between talks. So plenty of time I used it as a retreat. And I remember one time coming home back to Israel and- I just give you the context. In Israel,we live in a city just outside Tel Aviv, called Ramat Gan. And we live- our house is in a 20-story building- we live on the 10th floor. And the view is just breath-taking. You know Israel is just a very tiny country,so you can see... I can see both sides of Israel- the Mediterranean on one side; I can see the Mountains of Samir on the other side. Just gorgeous view. And one of the things that I like to do is every morning- because I'm a morning person- I wake up usually before the rest of the family. I sit down in the dining room and look outside through the glass window. We have a glass window. Since it's so high, it's fortified glass of course and part of it does not open. But I look through the part that does not open outside. And I do it very often. And I remember coming back from this particular trip and, from the US,and looking outside and suddenly, all the colors seem so much brighter. The world seems so much clear. And I say to myself,"wow.I must've become enlightened." Because I read in books and I heard people talking about it that when you become enlightened,everything becomes clear. The world becomes even more beautiful than it already is. And I were sitting there on the sofa, and just admiring the strong colors, the beauty,the clarity of every thing. And I said to myself,"after so many years"- I've been meditating for over ten years, "after so many years,I'm finally enlightened." And I started to act differently, because you know enlightened people don't go around telling people they are enlightened. Well,this is an exception. But...So I didn't tell anyone. I didn't even tell Tammy that I'm enlightened. But I was walking on air and the next day,the next morning, I would wake up and again my ritual observation on off the mountains in a distance and I said, "wow.The world is so beautiful.I'm enlightened." And that went on for a few days. Then one day,Tammy and I were sitting together in the lounge, and just chatting. And you know she was looking outside and I was looking outside. And she said,"you know finally when you went away, after so long,I finally was able to clean the window."[Laugh] I said,I said,"what?" And she said,"you know I haven't been able to get out there. But I got this machine. You know the two side machine with a,with a magnet. I was finally able to get it.And I finally cleaned the window." So much for my enlightenment. So you know,maybe there is enlightenment- I don't know. But the key with meditation is not about reaching that stage, when everything suddenly becomes so clear. You know I think the quicker path would be to clean the window. But that's not what meditation is about. Meditation is about being present,being in the here and now, struggling with being in the here and now. And when we lose our thought, when we lose our focus on the breath,simply bring it back. That is the practice- losing it and bringing it back. Losing it and bringing it back. And that's how we exercise our mind to be more focused, to be more mindful. So let me share with you some of the studies on meditation. And once you start meditation or Yoga by the way, you will find what is right for you. Being ADHD,it was very difficult for me to do sitting meditation Much more conducive for me to do Yoga. Because I'm working hard. It keeps my mind focused on the posture. For other people,the right thing is sitting meditation. Just breathing. For others,it's thinking about certain things. For many people,it's praying. Whatever works for you. And it can be of course a few things. You can pray and do Yoga. So let me share with you some of the studies. The real serious studies on meditation started by looking at the tip of the stem. The meditators,people who have been doing it for many years, for a very long time. And what they asked,the researchers like Richie Davidson, University of Wisconsin, Jon Kabat-Zinn from University of Worcester, people like Herbert Benson, Paul Ackerman from one the UCs,and other people. When they wanted to study meditation, they said "let's study the best." So they contacted the Dalai Lama himself and said, "can you suggest some people who have been meditating for a very long time- serious meditators; and we want to study their brain." So they did.And they brought them in. And what they looked for,the first thing,remember, left to right prefrontal cortex ratio. And if you remember,we talked about it- people who are happier generally have more activation on the left side of the prefrontal cortex; people who are less happy have more activation on the right side of the prefrontal cortex. So that ratio is important. And it's one of the "objective" means of measuring happiness. One of the things that they have found is that there is very high correlation between what our brains look like under the scanner and our self-report about how happy we are- not 100 percent correlation,not at 1,but pretty high, suggesting the self-reports are pretty,are quite reliable. But anyway,so they wanted to look at the brain of the meditators And when they looked at the general public, we all exist on a Bell curve. The happier people are further on more activation on the left side; the less happy people are further- more activation,higher ratio on the right side. And then they brought in the meditators. And they measured their left to right prefrontal cortex. And here is what they found. This is the normal Bell curve. This is where the meditators were. This is from 2001- since,they have found numerous meditators that are quite literally off the chart, suggesting very high levels of well being and happiness. Being susceptible to positive emotions, and resilient in the face of painful emotions. So this is a remarkable result. Again,results that are not seen before until they measured these meditators. The other things that they were interested is looking at other important indicator for well being and calmness is the startle response. When you hear a bang,you startle. And the startle response is important, because the easier you get startled, generally it's correlated to the higher levels of anxiety, susceptibility at least to anxiety. And everyone has this startle response to some degree. Even marksmen and women in the military, you know,who shoot their guns everyday and they are trying to remain completely focus. Even they startle,when the gun goes off. They flinch.Very slightly,but they do. So it's impossible to suppress the startle response. Or so they thought. When Paul Ackerman brought these meditators in and asked them to maintain complete equanimity and calmness, and he startled them. There was no reaction whatsoever.First time in recorded history. That people are,have been able to suppress the startle response. Here was what Daniel Goleman writes about this in his book, Destructive Emotions: "Given that the larger someone's startle, the more intensely that person tends to experience upsetting emotions, Oser's performance had tantalizing implications, suggesting a remarkable level of emotional equanimity." That equanimity was also contagious- so people who tried to argue with these monks, very often had a hard time becoming angry or upset even if the topic was upset,personally upsetting to them, such as scientists arguing about the existence of God. And they said,"I couldn't get upset." Because calm is contagious,just like happiness is. Now some of you may not be 100 percent clear about what the startle response is. So for those of you who are not,I've prepared a very brief clip. [VIDEO: Clip on Startle Response] Oh sure the mask doesn't do anything to him. But you wanna see something really scary? It's Dad![Laugh] Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: OK.All right.Now you understand. When they studied these meditators, essentially what they were doing was applying what we've talked about, the growing tip statistic or Maslow talks about, the growing tip statistic- studying the best. Because if you want to advance knowledge, if you want to better apply ideas that work, you don't study the average teacher,you study Marva Colins. You don't study the average meditator, who thinks he's enlightened,you study the meditators who have been doing it for for many years. Lama Oser,one of these meditators: "The process itself has some extraordinary qualities, but not necessarily the subject. The important idea is that this process is within the reach of anyone who applies himself or herself with enough determination." In other words,this is not just for the selected few, who can meditate for 30 years,8 hours a day. It can be applied because the process is relatively simple to all of us. Daniel Goleman: "From the perspective of neuroscience, the point of all this research has nothing to do with demonstrating that Oser or any other extraordinary person may be remarkable in him-or herself,but rather to stretch the field's assumptions about human possibility Some of these key assumptions have already begun to expand, in part due to a revolution in neuroscience's supposition about the malleability of the brain itself." Remember neuroplasticity.Neurogenesis. These concepts that I and... how scientists like Richie Davidson identified that our brain is malleable,it can change. And one of the ways to change it is through meditation. Now this is all well and good. So we can apply this process with determination to our lives. But how many people here seriously would say, "OK.That sounds great. I want my left side of the prefrontal cortex to be more active. So I'm gonna go off to Himalayas and meditate for 30 years,8 hours a day. I mean,how many people are really prepared to do this? How many people have time for 2 hours a day of meditation? The second problem with this research is that it's correlational. There's no causation here. Maybe Lama Oser was born that way; that's why he was attracted to meditation. Maybe Matthieu Ricard- he's written a book on happiness- Dalai Lama's translator,right-hand man. Maybe he was born that way with a remarkable left to right prefrontal cortex. He's,by the way,literally off the charts. But the main problem still remains- beyond causation is the time. Do we have the time, do we have the patience to meditate so often and so much? You know when I found out,when I started to meditate, to do Yoga,I really saw the benefits of it. And I said,"OK.So I'm getting the benefits when I am doing it for half an hour a day. What if I do a real,longer retreat?" And I have some great 10 day long retreats. And I said to Tammy, "you know,I want to go to a 10 day retreat." And Tammy knows me pretty well, and she said,"you know,why don't you try... You know it's not all or nothing. Why don't you try a one day retreat first before you go on a 10 day retreat?" And I said,"you know,it's a good idea!" And I went to a one day retreat, which is not very far from here,in Cambridge. And I went to this retreat and I was very excited. It was on a Saturday.And I was looking for it all week. I said,"I'm starting the process of enlightenment, of course,through this one day retreat. And once after that one day retreat, once I prove to Tammy that it's good for me, she'll see how calm I am after. She'll say,'sure.Go for the 10 day retreat." So I went for that one day retreat. And the one day retreat- we came in; there was a gentleman who was sitting in front of the class with the beard, looking very calm. And I said,"I'm going to look like him at the end of the day. And...Minus the beard." And we sat down. He said,"we are going to start with sitting meditation." So we all sat. You know we had our cushion.I need a few cushions there. We were sitting there.I put my hands here. He said,"OK.Breathe deeply.Through your nostrils. And then breathe out again." And we did that.And I was sitting there. And my mind- you know being ADHD- started to wander. But he said,"if the mind wanders,bring it back to the focus." And we were sitting there and for- what it seems like- a very long time. And I stayed there.And I said,"OK.Your mind wanders.It's OK. Come back to it." And I continued to sit there. And we sat there for 45 minutes.And at the end,he said, "OK.Gently,slowly open your eyes.And stand up." And he said,"what we are gonna do now, the second part after the 45 minutes, first part,the sitting meditation- we are going to do some walking meditation." And he illustrated it. And then we walked behind him,around in a circle. And we walked very slowly,very diligently. Just focusing on each step.Lifting up the leg. He said,"just focus on the movement. Be present in the here and now.And if your mind wanders," which mine did constantly,"bring it back to the walking. And continue to breathe deeply. Just like what you did in the sitting meditation." So we were walking around the room for a very long time. And we walked.And we continued to walk around that room. And my mind continued to wander.And I got bored. So what I did was I started to look around at the other people. And they were all walking in the circle. And then I looked to where the teacher was sitting. And next to the teacher,there was a piece of paper. I thought,"oh interesting.I wonder what it says there." So I continued to walk and I got to the piece of paper again. And I said,"oh it's a schedule.How interesting!" And I didn't have enough time to read what it said. So I said,"next round I have something to look forward to!" So I continued to walk.And I see... Oh I see this is what we did- 45 minutes of sitting meditation and after that 45 minutes of walking meditation.Ha? I wonder what's next.And I continued to walk. And now I have something to look forward to.I was excited. And I look just below- 45 minutes of sitting meditation? And then- 45 minutes of walking meditation? Wow! And another sitting and walking... Oh and lunch! I wonder what we do after lunch! 45 minutes of sitting meditation? And walking...Wow. And after that,walking meditation? So I thought to myself, "wow.This is incredible! I'll see you next time! Jeez!" And I walked out.I just...I couldn't take it! So... And I ran home,but I must say,I was a little bit embarrassed. So I said,"wait.Maybe I'll spend the day outside." You know,just come back home and seem enlightened at least. But I didn't.So I called Tammy. And I told her,"do you want to have breakfast together?" And we did.She gives me the permission to be human. I don't see myself going on a 10 day retreat. I don't see myself going on a 30 year retreat. And my question was that as it is now, how can meditation help people who don't want to or simply can't meditate for such a long time? And don't get me wrong. I do recommend these retreats. There are people who go to these retreats and come out looking differently. I mean I've seen...I know.Many of my friends have been there. But that's- again,a one day retreat or a 10 day retreat; some people have gone as long to as 3 months retreat and they are good. Just not for me. So what can we do? Jon Kabat-Zinn in his research, showed how meditation can apply to people who don't want to do full days,who just have 45 minutes a day or as little as 15 minutes a day for meditation or Yoga, or some form of mindfulness. And he did two things. First of all, he showed how it helps for people who do less than 30 years. And second,equally important,he showed causation. So he took two groups in one of his studies. Two groups. The one group- both groups wanted to do meditation, so they expressed the interest- one group he put on a waiting list. And he said, you are participating this seminar in about three months. Or...It was 4 months.In 4 months, you'll be participating the seminar where all booked out. The second group started the meditation regime workshop then. And the regime was essentially 45 minutes of meditation a day. During the weekend,they were together; they learned some techniques. But during the week,when they were at home, 45 minutes a day of meditation. And then he compared them to the control group- the group that was waiting for a retreat,waiting for the lessons Because he wanted them to be the same kind- people who wanted to do meditation. One that has actually started; one that is going to start soon. And then he measured anxiety and compared to the control group- anxiety levels of those who did meditation for 8 weeks. Just 8 weeks.45 minutes a day on average. Anxiety decreased significantly. Then he looked at their happiness level, like the positive- not just the negative to the zero; the zero to the positive. And they were happier.They had better moods. After as little as 8 weeks.But here are the clinchers. He then said, "well,it's not enough- just self-reported could be placebo,"- which is great, but he wanted to see something else beyond just placebo. And here is what he found. He looked at their left to right prefrontal cortex. And after as little as 8 weeks, there was a significant difference in those individuals who meditated. Now this is a remarkable result. Remember until 1998, scientists were sure that the brain is not malleable; does not change pass the age of 3 or so. And suddenly here with this little,with as little as 8 weeks, these meditators,or individuals, you know regular people doing 45 minutes of meditation a day, are changing the way their brain functions, making them more susceptible to positive emotions, more resilient in the face of painful emotions. Herbert Benson from our medical school here are showing with as little as 15-20 minutes a day of meditation, you see a significant change over time in levels of well being. Emotional well being as well as physical well being. Because the other study that Jon Kabat-Zinn did with these meditators was injecting both groups- the control group who are waiting and the meditators. He injected them with cold bacteria. And what he wanted to do,what he wanted to measure was how would their bodies react in terms of antibodies. And what he found was that the meditators' immune response was significantly stronger than those who didn't meditate, who were waiting to meditate. Just based on 8 weeks of meditation,45 minutes a day. And we know that. You know when we are calmer, we are less susceptible to illnesses. When we are stressed,we are more susceptible to illnesses. So meditation strengthens both- the psychological immune system in making us more resilient, as well as the physical immune system. Mindfulness has been used in numerous areas, numerous places as therapy. More and more so today. Both as in,together with cognitive therapy, together with medicine,medication as well as on its own. And it's been shown to be extremely effective. The book I recommend, if you want to get a good outline of what the field has to say is called The Mindful Way Through Depression. It talks about how mindfulness can help us overcome major depression, mild depression as well as things like anxiety and how it can also help other psychological disorders. And one of the things for example that they show there- we know from, unfortunately we know that once someone has major depression, the likelihood of it reappearing, whether it's a month later or sometimes years later is much higher than if we never have major depression. Why? Think about what we have discussed before. What we talked about is how the brain creates neural pathways. Now if a neural pathway has been created- and it's a strong neural pathway of depression, very often something which is relatively mild but happens can send us back to that neural pathway. So we through a relatively hard period,nothing that serious,but immediately the brain looks for that the largest neural pathway, the largest river metaphorically speaking. And it goes there. And we have the major depression again with little reason. And after we have it two or three times, the neural pathway is even stronger,even more likely to recur. What he found when they introduced mindfulness meditation or mindfulness therapy in addition to cognitive behavioral therapy was it reduced the likelihood of recurrence of major depression among people who have major depression or had major depression- reduces the likelihood by over 50 percent of relapse. That is a longitudinal study.So that really helps. It also helps deal with non major depression. It helps dealing with sadness. Now how does it work? How does it work? Let me very briefly- again I do recommend this book; we can have a whole course on this book. This book also got an 8 week program which is fantastic. Its first level is about awareness and acceptance of the body signal. What do they mean here? You see,whenever we enter experiencing emotion, there is always a physical manifestation to it. Positive emotions such as happiness- it could be butterflies or you know just feeling very broad in the upper body whatever it is but also painful emotions. For example, if I experience,personal when I experience anxiety,it's here. I feel it here. Or here.The knot in my stomach that I talked about. People who experience depression or even sadness, feel it somewhere- again whether it's in the stomach, whether it's in the shoulders, there is always a physical manifestation to an emotional experience. And what they are saying and what the research has shown is that when we begin to experience a painful emotion, immediately going and becoming mindful, aware of where the physical manifestation is. So instead of beginning to ruminate and to dwell on "why am I depressed","what's going on", "what's happening","not again","I hope this won't start..." Instead of going in to this rumination, going immediately to the physical manifestation of it, to the body. So I'm beginning to feel stressed.OK. And focusing on it and accepting that knot. Not trying to fix it as we'll talk about in a minute. Simply accepting it for what it is,looking at it and saying, "oh.That's interesting.Oh it's quite a big knot. Oh no it's small.Oh it's getting actually bigger." As opposed to saying "I want it to go away.Oh it is going away.That's interesting." But that's not the purpose. The purpose is simply to become aware of it, simply to become aware of whatever the physical manifestation of the emotion is. Now why does it work? It works because it creates an alternative neural pathway. With a usual pathway that it's created,when we feel dis-easy, it's going into the mind,ruminating about it and usually going to the channel that existed before. The channels or channels that existed before, and these channels are associated with our depression or previous negative experiences that have been reinforced. What we are doing now, instead of going into these enforced channels inside our mind and further reinforcing them, we are creating an alternative one- oh pain?! Let's go to the body. And that alternative channel- the reason why it works because that's when we are drawing, that's when we are going to the body's natural ability to heal. Most of the illnesses that we face, the body has- most not all- has the compacity to heal itself. Most of the cuts that you get- you don't need to do anything about it. In fact,you shouldn't do anything about small cuts. You know play with it.Look at it.Touch it. Just let nature take its course. It will fix it by itself.Same with digestion. You don't need to think about digest... The body has its own internal wisdom,its own internal healer. And this is exactly what happens when you go and you divert attention from "oh what I'm gonna do about it; What's happening; it's so terrible; I hope I wouldn't feel this way; I hope I feel better soon; and why I'm feeling this way; what's the cause." Somtimes it's important to do it and to analyze it, to write about it,as opposed to to ruminate about it, or to talk to someone about it,as opposed to ruminating about it But the most effective, in most situations is just to go to the body,bodily sensation. And be aware of it.Accept it.Don't try to fix it. Just let it be there and just observe it. And the,our internal healer will take care of itself. The key,in order to become adept at it is to practice. It's to practice it. To do it over and over again, just like everything else that we've discussed in this class. There are no quick fixes. How do we practice it? First- and this is part of their 8 week program, which is what I'm doing right now- the first is body scan. Become aware of your body just by lying down and thinking and observing. First of all,your foot and then becoming aware of your knee, becoming aware of sensations in your crotch, becoming aware of sensations in your stomach. Wherever it is. Going through the whole body. And practicing it,becoming more aware. And this is doing it in a cold state. This is doing it in the practice,in a simulator. Then when we are in a hot state, when we actually experience that emotion,that painful emotion, we are ready to go to it and we know what to do. Practice also means when we lose focus,we go back to it. And that's the practice. The practice is not remaining completely centered for 30 minutes. The practice is losing and coming back. Losing focus and coming back again. And then,also practicing in the real life. So whenever I feel stressed,merely going"OK. So what's the physical manifestation of it?" Now here we are talking about the emotions; we are talking about the body. You can also practice by using cognitive reconstruction. How? For instance. Let's say I'm thinking about a talk that I have to give tonight. And I'm very nervous for it. Large audience.Important audience. And every time I think of it,my initial inclination is stress. And I get this adrenalin feel here and I don't feel good about it Or the knot in my stomach. So how do I deal with it? Each time I think about it,I say, "OK.Where am I feeling it in the body?" Another way of dealing with it is cognitively reconstructing it, saying instead of stress,what a privilege. Remember I told you that I had a very large client that I had to speak to, I was very stressed about that talk. And every time my mind went to stress, within half a second I said,"no,it's a privilege. It's so wonderful that I have the opportunity to do it." Again,this is different from avoiding. This is different from repressing. There is a time to simply accept and to give ourselves the permission to be human. However it's useless to just constantly ruminate about it and simply strengthen the neural pathways. So this reaction of either going to the physical body or sometimes going to the cognitive reconstruction can be very useful. Remember when we want change, we want to draw as much as possible on A,B and C- on affect,on behavior,and cognition. And these are just two very helpful techniques. I use it constantly,whether it's going in the body or going in cognitive reconstructing. Extremely helpful. Again the data shows how helpful it is. Let's try it.Let's do a quick mindfulness meditation and incorporating some of the ideas that I discuss now and things that we've discussed in the past. So sit comfortably in your seats as much as possible. Your back straight, leaning on the back if that is more comfortable. Elongate your neck as much as possible. Create a straight line in your upper body. Plant your feet as comfortably as you can on the floor. If there's a cross and you feel uncomfortable,uncross them. And rest your hands either on your legs or fold it however you feel comfortable. And if you feel comfortable,close your eyes. Wherever your attention is now, wherever your focus is now,bring it to your breath. Breathe deeply into your belly and then breathe slowly,gently,gracefully out. Take a deep breath and slow,gentle,quiet exhalation. And repeat this a few times. If your mind wanders, simply,gently bring it back to the breath and practice. As you continue to breathe,shift your attention, your focus to your body- your feet,shins,your legs,your wrist,your belly,your back. Just scan your whole body- your chest,neck,your head. And find one area in your body that is slightly tense, that you feel more than others, that is less relaxed than the rest of the body. And whatever that part of the body is, shift your attention there and observe the discomfort, observe the tension. Just observe and accept it is. Continue to breathe deeply as you are observing that part of the body. And just look how interesting it is. That you have that sensation there. With each breath,embrace it. There's nothing right; there's nothing wrong with how you feel. The feeling simply is. And continue with the breath to breathe into that part and out of that part. Simply observing it,accepting it,being with it. Continue to be with that part of your body, with your breath and experience the experience. Whatever it is,it is. And then gently say goodbye to the focus on that particular part. Very gently, because you just embrace it and return to your breath. And with your breath,wash,cleanse your entire body. Starting with your souls, going all the way up to the top of your head. And each breath introduces a deeper calm, deeper acceptance,deeper being. Just experience,just feel the lightness, the light that comes from acceptance, from our natural state of being. Take another deep breath in. Slow,gentle,quiet exhalation. And with the next exhalation,open your eyes. If the person next to you is asleep,again, just gently nudge them or embrace them. The effects of mindfulness meditation,mindfulness therapy- it's quite literally mind boggling. What we are doing and what mindful therapy does is change our focus from doing to being. How is that? You see usually,usually when we experience something stressful, or when our mind goes to a sad place, our immediate reaction is how can I fix it. How can I fix it? And we try to fix it by thinking about alternative, or by getting ourselves to feel better, by thinking through the problem that we are facing. Why? Because this fixing mind works. I mean because of the fixing mind that we have science, technology and progress; and because of the fixing mind,the thinking mind, that you got in here. You didn't get in here because you are a great meditator. You got in here because you did well in your tests. You are able to solve problems well on the SATs. And that's a good thing.That's a important skill. But very often it's counter-productive when it comes to dealing with mental,psychological issues. We gravitate toward it.We want to fix it. But very often it's counter-productive. Just like it would be counter-productive to try a meddle with the digestion that our bodies go through, the digestive process. It happens independent of us. If we try playing with it,open it,look at it,help it, we'll only hurt it. Why? Because the internal mind,the internal healer, the internal wisdom knows best to deal with certain things- not everything,but certain things. Such as digestion.Such as very often,not always, but very often with mental afflictions,with painful emotions. So we are moving,we are shifting our focus from trying to fix to simply be with that emotion, with that experience,with the manifestation of the pain. In their book,William who teaches at Oxford: "Trying to get rid of depression in the usual problem-solving way trying to 'fix' what's 'wrong' with us,just digs us in deeper. Rumination is part of the problem,not part of the solution." Now the emphasis here is on rumination. It's not- and we've talked about it at all, it's not like if you write in your journal,it's not helpful. It's good for you to write about issues that you are dealing with in your journal. It's good to talk to a very close friend. But just rumination, going over the same scenario over and over again. Ruminating about it,trying to fix it very often makes it worse. And we would be better off just going to the emotion, going to the physical manifestation. Try it.See what's right for you. It may be right for you to you know, write half an hour on one occasion and then just meditate on it for 10 minutes. Or it may be right for you to only write about it. It's different for different people. But what I'm doing here is I'm adding another tool to your psychological tool box. And just like we can cognitively reconstruct, as opposed to seeing it as a threat,to see it as a challenge; as opposed to seeing it as a threat,to see it as a privilege; as opposed to seeing it as a failure, just to see it as a learning opportunity. We can also have emotional reconstruction, where instead of just thinking and ruminating about it, we go to the experience. "With the shift trying to ignore or eliminate physical discomfort to paying attention with friendly curiosity, we can transform- quite literally transform our experience." I'm going to leave you today with a last tip. And this is something that is very important and that I highly recommend doing- for all of you,no exception. What I highly recommend doing is breathing. It's very,very important to breathe. And in fact,it's the one thing that's common to all the mindful meditation practices and something that you can introduce to your life- of course I mean proper breathing. Something that you can introduce to your life, even if you don't meditate for 15 minutes or 45 minutes a day. What I'm talking about here is deep breathing. Because here is what happens: in our modern world,we are mostly stressed and anxious. As a result of this,our breathing becomes shallow. And as a result of shallow breathing, when our breathing is shallow, we become even more stressed and anxious. And we go into this vicious cycle, vicious downward spiral of the "fight or flight" response. And that's how we go through most of our days. Fortunately we can reverse this. And we can reverse this very quickly. Because we also know that calm and well being leads to deep breathing; and deep breathing in turn leads to calm and well being. We can reverse the "fight or flight" response and enter what Herbert Benson calls, the relaxation response within as little as three deep breaths. We can introduce these three deep breaths strategically throughout the day. Just before class starts; just when the class ends; just when I wake up in the morning; or the last thing before I go to bed. Three deep breaths, strategic points through the day can transform a life. Andrew Weil,graduate of our medical school, now at the University of Arizona,in his wonderful CD, talks about breathing: "If I had to limit my advice on healthier living to just one tip, it would be simply to learn how to breathe correctly." And that means breathing like a baby breathes. Into the stomach. I told you,I'm not going to teach you much new in this course. You know how to breathe. You learn how to breathe when you were born. All we are doing now is chipping away the excess stone so that you go back to your natural wisdom,your natural healer. In a wonderful book, Alia Crum's Dad- she did the article with Ellen Langer- Thomas Crum gives some good advice about how we can reverse the "flight or fight" response. And one of the things that he advises- he says that each time you get to a red light, use it as an opportunity to breathe deeply- whether when you are walking and you get to a red light, or in the car. Now in the past...I introduced it. In the past,every time I got to a red light,it was annoying, especially if the light had just changed from green. Now whenever I get to a red light, it's an opportunity and I breathe deeply. Introduce deep breathing to your life. Just a few times a day. And that can have far-reaching consequences. So I'll see you next week. And until then,breathe. [Applause] 



 Chapter 17: 睡眠、触摸和爱情的重要性


Student:Hi everyone.My name is Jenny Spria. And I'm here to introduce you guys to an organization that I'm starting up. The organization is called the Harvard Dance Experiment. And the idea is to bring together all the different dance groups at Harvard and have them offer self-contained workshops for complete beginners. And,so the idea is that people who really don't know how to dance but are interested at learning, could try out a varieties of styles that are already here at Harvard from other students, and just have a really informal space for people to get together and exerciseand just have fun. So if you think you might be interested, we are trying to gauge how many people might be interested and see if we can make this reality. Please join the Facebook group, Harvard Dance Experiment or send an email to hdancexp@gmail.com. Thank you. [Applause] Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: Hi.Good morning. So here is what we are going to do today. Today,we are going to finish up with the mind body. We are going to talk about sleep. We are going to talk about touch. And then we are going to move on to a topic that I'm absolutely in love with which is love. We are going to talk about relationships. Where we were finished of last time- we talked about mind body connection, we talked about the importance of exercise, we talked about the importance of mindfulness meditation- how it quite literally transforms,changes the form of our brain, making the left side of prefrontal cortex more active relative to the right side. And then we talked about the importance of breathing and how breathing if it's introduced strategically throughout the day can quite literally change our lives- whether it's standing in front of a red light, whether it's the first thing when we wake up in the morning, whether it's as we enter the class or right now. Deep breathing,deep belly breathing changes, shifts us from the fight or flight response to the relaxation response. Remember one of the things that we talked about at the very beginning of the course is that I will not be teaching you many new things here. And this is a clear example of that. You all know how to breathe deeply,properly. You knew it from the day you were born or the moment you were born. But over the years, with increasing levels of stress and the lack of recovery, over the years with the mounting pressure and the speed of modern life, we've had limitations imposed on us. We've been put under stress; we haven't been taught how to recover. And what we need to do now is chip away those limitations; go back to our innate inclination of breathing deeply. And when we do that,we reverse the fight or flight and create a growth spiral between common well being and deep breathing- that leads to more common well being and more deep breathing. The next topic that I want to talk about but I don't want you to apply to right now but later is sleep. Here are some statistics about sleep. So before Edison invented the light bulb, people slept on average about 10 hours every,every 24 hours. 10 hours a day. Most of it at night,but sometimes during the day as well. Today the average person gets about 6.9 hours sleep during the week and 7 and a half hours of sleep on the weekend. That's the national average. For college students,it's a little bit different. How many people- just so I get a show of hands- how many of you other than me get a full 8 hours of sleep a night? OK. I'm sure there are many more.They are probably asleep now. So here is the national average: between 18 and 29 year olds, about a quarter get 8 hours of sleep. 75 percent don't get enough sleep. Now for some people they need 7 hours; some people need 9; some 16- no. The average is 8. We all vary somewhere around there. there are very few people that need very little sleep and there are very few people that actually need a lot of sleep. And how do we know how much sleep we need? When do you wake up naturally? When we go to sleep,when we are tired? And that's how we can gauge it.It's around 8 hours. Now many people are saying,"OK. For me to get 8 hours sleep,I'll need 30-hour days. It's not enough to...It's a third of 24 hours. That's too much.I can't afford it." Well you can afford it if you look at it as an investment, if you make it a priority. You know it's like a business person going making a deal and saying, "well I can't afford spending 100,000 dollars on this deal." Well you can't afford giving it away.But what if you will get return on investment of 20 percent a year. Then it changes. And yeah,maybe I can afford 100,000 if there is ROI- return on investment on it. The same with sleep. And there's a lot of return on investment on these 8 hours- a lot of research showing how important sleep is and why we need to make it a priority. So let me just list a few very briefly. First of all,physical immune system strengthens significantly. I mean we all know when we are,when we go on little sleep, we end up get- or we are more likely to be unwell after an exam period. It's of course related to stress as well. But sleep in and of itself- enough sleep strengthens our immune system. Energy levels. There are a lot of theories going around that well, it's better to sleep five hours than seven hours because of certain cycles. And yeah,these cycles exist. But in general,more sleep to a point is better. If we are sleeping more than 10 or more than 11 hours a day,- sometimes it's associated with going difficult times; sometimes it's associated with depression. Depression can lead to insomnia or can lead to the opposite- sleeping too much. But as I said,you know if you are sleeping 10 hours a day, it may mean that you need 10 hours a day. Doesn't mean that you are depressed. Doesn't mean that there's something wrong. But check it out. See throughout your life, how many hours of sleep did you need on average? More sleep is generally better up to a certain point. We talked about physical exercise and that when we don't exercise what we are doing is our weight goes up beyond its base level, beyond its God given or genes given,our natural state, which is why more diets fail when they are not associated with exercise. The same applies to sleep. If we don't sleep enough,we go beyond our base level of weight- actually correlational,not just correlational- causation. Lack of sleep to putting on weight. And if we try diet,we are fighting our nature again. Simply sleep enough- that's one of the contributing factors to effective weight management. Motor skills. 100,000 road accidents on average each year as a result of lack of sleep; 40,000 injuries;1500 people killed a year in this country as a result of lack of sleep. Either themselves being the drivers who didn't sleep or being the other receiving end of the accident. In the workplace,day in and day out, accidents are caused because of lack of sleep costing the economy an estimated 100 billion dollars a year. Cognitive functioning- whether it's creativity, productivity as well as memory that is hurt when we don't sleep, which is why sleep is such an important investment. You know very often we say, "let me stay up two more hours so I can study." Whereas in fact you'll get much more studying done, you'll remember the material better,be more creative, if you get these extra 2 hours of sleep. Good return on the investment. Very often we can learn a lot about ourselves through babies. Why? Because babies don't suppress emotions. what happens to a baby when he or she doesn't get enough sleep? They are cranky; they cry; they are miserable; they are anxious. I mean we know that. Now we learn not to look like that baby that we saw when we talked about permission to be human, to cry one moment and to laugh the next. So we suppress these emotions but we still have them. No different when we don't get enough sleep that's when our fuse is shorter; that's when we,you know,blow up more often. That's when we feel anxious and getting unhealthy on the physical level; of course it's unhealthy psychologically. Affects depression in a even more significant way for two reasons The first reason is that lack of sleep is likely to lead to depression is because, for the physical level again,just like you see a baby- it's cranky when it's tired- we are cranky when we are tired. So that's just the pure physical level of needing sleep. The second reason is a little bit more subtle and a little bit more interesting. What happens at night is that our mind processes a lot of the things that we have gone through throughout the day. And very often it solves unresolved issues that we have gone through throughout the day,which is why, you know you go to sleep with a math problem, often you wake up in the morning with a solution. But it's not just math problems that are solved at night. It is also other interpersonal, intrapersonal issues that are solved throughout the night. And if you look at dreams- usually the dreams that we have early on during the night are actually less pleasant,enjoyable dreams. We are more likely to have pleasant dreams later on in the night. Why? Because the first part of the night, that's when we are working on problems, we are dealing with issues- some were conscious; some were not conscious during the day. Later on after we have resolved a few of these problems, our dreams become more pleasant. Again,this doesn't mean you can't have a nightmare at 11:30 am. But it means that you are more likely to have bad dreams earlier on. And when we don't give ourselves the opportunity to "complete our dreaming"- complete problem solving through that night, we wake up with that problem unresolved. And then it's there, whether it's on the conscious or subconscious level. It's unresolved.And we pay a price for it. And over time,we have a lot of unresolved issues, especially when they are suppressed or repressed when we are more likely to enter depression. So sleep for the physical need of sleep as well as for the psychological need of sleep. Now everyone talks about beauty sleep. Why? Because that's manifested.That's obvious. You can tell when a person hasn't slept for 24,36 hours. There are rings around eyes.So you can hide them. But still you can see someone is enervated. But it's not just about a beauty sleep. It's also about happiness sleep. It is also about intelligence sleep. Because we know that people who haven't slept, say for 24 hours,after 24 hours, their IQs reduce by 10 points or more. So there is beauty sleep for sure; but there is also happiness sleep as well as intelligence sleep. It's a good investment on every level. Here are just very briefly some tips on sleep. The first thing- more or less 8 hours a day. Find,you know,what is right for you. But that could mean 7 hours at night and 1 hour in the afternoon. Or it could mean 6 and 2.But generally we need 8 hours a day. If you can't get these 8 hours a day,- there are periods in your life when you won't be able to. Such as exam periods where it may be a little bit difficult to get the 8 hours. Or another stressful period.Or when you have children. So what do you do? Naps. Naps have actually been shown to be extremely effective. Catnaps during the day. You know sleep for 20 minutes. It's not as good as sleeping extra two hours at night. But it's certainly a lot better than not getting any sleep during the day. So naps are also very good investment. You know take a power nap for 15,20 minutes during the day that to an extent- not like a full night sleep- but to an extent restores some of the cognitive as well as emotional capacities. Many people who have problems falling asleep- the reason is because they eat too late or they exercise too late and you know,the blood is still flowing fast; the heart is still beating; they are energized. So not to eat too much before you go to... Some people you know can fall asleep as they are eating. But there are certain people for whom it's a little bit more of an issue. So just watch your diet a little bit. Watch your exercise regime- not to exercise too late. Also other people who have insomnia- large numbers do have insomnia: it's to give yourself the permission to be human. I don't think there is one person in this room who hasn't at times had difficulty falling asleep. Before the SATs; before an exam; before a date. And it's natural. You know in the past, generally I don't have problems falling asleep. I get to 10 pm- then I'm zonked. But sometimes when I did have problems during difficult periods, stressful periods,initially I would tell myself, "OK.Fall asleep now.Fall asleep now.Fall asleep." Right? It's like "Don't be anxious.Don't be anxious." And then you have pink elephants preventing you from going to sleep. Instead give yourself permission to be human. Now I have difficulty falling asleep I said to myself, "well,it's an opportunity to think and reflect." And very often that bores me and I fall asleep. Permission to be human. And finally,what are your internal rhythms? Now because we have the light bulb today, because we are living indoors as opposed to living in huts that are exposed or caves that are in touch, directly in touch with nature. We have separated ourselves with,from nature. And we pay a price for it. Whether we pay a price for it because we don't exercise enough since we don't have to hunt and gather. And we pay a price also because we don't pay attention, we are no longer cognizant, mindful or heartful of our internal rhythms. How many hours in night do you need? Are you a night person or a morning person? Do you need to go to sleep at 10 pm? Or do you need to go to sleep at 5 am? What's right for you? Try and create a life that is in line with your natural needs. That's not always possible. If you go in work- in college it's relatively possible. You are quite flexible. Cause you know you can come...This class is at 11:30. It's also videotaped. So if you want to sleep till noon,that's fine too. And then you'll watch it started.So you can play around with it. When you work in the future,or when you were in high school, the high school started at 7:30 or 8,you had to be there. Still as much as possible trying to be aware, cognizant of your internal rhythms in terms of the hours that you need and also when you need those hours. There's been a lot of research on sleep. I mean there are entire seminars and classes just on the need for sleep. Let me summarize through the work of William Dement, who is a professor at Stanford and does a lot of sleep research when he is awake: "Effects of sleep deprivation on health and well-being have been documented by research. Cognitive skills and physical performance are impaired by sleep deprivation, but mood is affected even more. People who get less than a full night's sleep are prone to feel less happy,more stressed,more physically frail and more mentally and physically exhausted as a result. Sufficient sleep makes us feel better,happier, more vigorous and vital." Again I don't think there is one person in the room who didn't already know this. Again we are not teaching anything new. I'm just reminding you of the things that you already know. Let me move on to a topic that is related to my favorite topic- and that is touch. Americans are in general- again,this is a generalization average in general are among the least tactile people in the world. We spend a lot of time indulging our other senses- going to great restaurants, perfuming ourselves and our boyfriends with the best smell. But we don't touch enough. And it's physical need just like sleep is,just like exercise is, just like relationships are. Ant it's an important part of relationships. The best work in the area was done by Tiffany Field who was a massage therapist and saw the effects of massage, went out,studied this topic, got her PHD and now is a professor at the University of Miami. And what she shows through her research and other people's research is how important getting in touch with touch is. For example,for physical health- whether it's our immune system strengthens significantly with touch, weakens drastically without sufficient touch. It helps overcome injuries. And that's not just professional massagist, or professional physiotherapist. Just the act of touch. Children grow more when they are touched. And we'll talk about research in a minute- some mind-boggling research. It's physical health; it's also mental health. Once again, children's cognitive development is affected by touch- mental health in terms of mood disorders, eating disorders are associated very often with lack of touch or not enough touch. Depression and anxiety are caused by lack of touch, can be overcomed often with more touch. Hopefully you are convinced now: better sex life with touch. So William Johnson- sorry,William Masters and Virginia Johnson, two of the most important sex therapists and researchers. What they have shown is that sexual dysfunction, most sexual dysfunctions- in fact,between 70 and 95 percent of them can be solved simply with the help of touch. So what they are saying actually is that foreplay should not be just used as a means toward an end; they are saying that it can be an end in itself. And what touch does is essentially what positive psychology is all about. Sex.No.So... Did I say that out loud? Yes,I guess I did.All right. So what positive psychology is about is- remember,getting us from the negative to the zero, but then getting us from the zero to the positive. So what they have shown in their research is that touch helps sexual dysfunction- OK so let's function; let's get to here- but they are also saying is that touch contributes to a thriving sexual relationship. So it's not just helping with problems; it's also making,taking us from the zero to the thriving. Martin Seligman has a book about looking at generally psychological interventions- those that work,those that don't. And as we've talked about in class a lot, most interventions do not work. We saw it with the Cambridge Somerville study where a 5 years interventions actually had a negative effect in a long term. We see it with so many of the self-help books offering quick fixes. They don't work. He researched,Williams Masters and Johnson's studies and what he found doing a meta analysis is that between 70 and 95 percent of the time their prescription works. Again this is almost unheard of in social psychology or social sciences intervention that these things work. Now touch is a need.As I said earlier,just like... Touch is a need just like physical exercise is a need, just like food and sleep are needs. So this is a story about a hospital ward for premature babies. And what they found there was that one of the sections in that hospital ward for premature babies had a much higher level of success compared to the other sections in the hospital ward. In other words, the babies were getting better much more promptly. They were healthier; when they followed them in the long term, they actually showed better cognitive as well as physical development. And they were wondering about it and they thought,I mean "it could be the air; could be the location in the hospital." Because everything else is identical- they got the same food; they got the same treatment. And one of the doctors really wanted to find out what was it about this specitic section in the hospital for premature babies that actually contributed so much to their well being. So he was,you know,watching the place. And one night, he was just sitting somewhere out of sight and he heard a sound. And he looked- didn't want to be seen. And a nurse came in- a nurse he knew. He'd been in the hospital for a long time. And the nurse walked in,picked up a premature baby, which was against the rules in the hospital. Because they cannot be touched; they had to be in the incubators. Picked up the baby, and just stroked him,just touched him very gently, talked to him and then put the baby down, and then walked to the next incubator,picked up the baby, just very gently stroked him and put him back down, and did that to all the babies in that section of the ward. Now she did it late at night during her shift because it was against the rules. And then she walked out. And that incident spun off a whole line of research about the importance of touch,with babies in general, specifically with premature babies. So Tiffany Fields did this study where premature babies were subject to 45 minutes a day of massage while they were in the hospital. Very gentle massage- I mean they are tiny. And what they found was that these babies put on 47 percent more weight while they were in the hospital. A year later when they are already at home, they had better development physically as well as in terms of cognitive skills as well as motor skills. Just as a result of being touched more often. We need touch.It is an innate instinctual need. In fact,there's been research on touch deprivation. And it wasn't done on human beings; it was done on monkeys. Harry Harlow, a very famous psychologist worked with a group of monkeys, whom he took away from their mothers. Didn't provide them any touch. Every other need was provided. And what he found was that these monkey didn't grow physically as much as the other monkeys; their cognitive development was impaired; and they displayed autistic-like behavior- for example, they would sit down,put their legs up and then rock. You've seen this? You know like in the- what's the movie with Dustin Hoffman? The Rain Man! You know where he would just sit down and rock this way. So many of these monkeys displayed exactly this behavior- this rocking,autistic behavior. Cruel study whether it's done on ants or monkeys, certainly on human beings. Unfortunately it has been done on human beings. This is one of the largest,natural,tragic experiments ever carried out. This was specifically done in Romania under Ceau?escu- the cruel dictator that ruled over the country until 1989. One thing that he did was take many kids away from their parents, especially if the parents were dissident, the parents were not "cultural" communists. So he took their kids and raised 150,000 kids in homes away from their parents. Now these homes- because it was a very poor country, had no money for nurses,for enough nurses, had no money for enough supports staff in general. So while these kids got all their physical needs in terms of food water and they were cleaned, they did not get much affection, not because the nurses did not want to give them affection. They just didn't have the time. In 1989,the war fell.Ceau?escu was ousted. And these kids were released from these homes. And psychologist went in and what they saw was the result of this tragic,natural experiment. In terms of physical growth, these kids were between 3 and 10 percent in size relative to their age group. Cognitive growth- the level of,way below the 100 IQ average. Motor development- also impaired significantly as a result of lack of touch. And many of these kids were sitting down with their legs to their chest and just rocking. The effect of touch deprivation. Now touch is important- once again to get us here. And we are here and we are fine- the question is how do we get beyond this? Well touch can take us there as well: not just to being OK but also to thriving. The importance of touch. Virginia Satir who's a psychologist has this to say: "We need 4 hugs a day for survival. We need 8 hugs a day for maintenance. We need 12 hugs a day for growth." Again she says the half,you know,in gest. there's not actual research showing how many hugs... Very good.You have 11 more left for today. But...Good.Good. So there is though actual research on hugs. So this is Jane Clipman who did research. And here is the intervention- very simple. It was every day give at least 5 hugs. These are frontal hugs,you know not with your partner- just hugs to different people,friends. Can be your partner as well. But these are specifically nonsexual hugs. And she found after 4 week was that the people who were in this group as opposed to the control group- and the control group had to write how many hours a day they read The control group's level of happiness obviously didn't go up. The group that hugged 5 times a day went up significantly. Now this exercise,this experiment when she talks about, she says it was much more difficult for some people, especially for men. But even the men who were part of it,most of them hugged. So they would do it on the sports field. They would find opportunities or somehow got in 5 hugs a day. And those people who did that actually became happier. Now I was going to assign this as your response paper this week. I am not going to do it,but I recommend it. So it's a very strong recommendation and suggestion from now on till, and the rest of your life- at least 5 hugs,preferably 12. The nice thing about hugs is that it's a win-win. Because when we hug someone,we are hugged back; when we touch someone,we are touched back. It's like happiness.When we share it,it grows. It's a win-win,positive sum game. Important thing to keep in mind about hugs, and touch in general is to respect the other person. Because not everyone feels as comfortable being touched as we do. Or we may not feel comfortable being touched. And that's fine for many reasons. You know one could be upbringing; one could be just physically people are different- there are some people who enjoy touch much more than others. And that's fine; it's natural. So we need to respect other people's boundaries as well as have others respect our own. But in general,touch is important.Touch is good. And we need to become a more tactile individual as well as a more tactile society. Let me show you an example now of how some people like hugs more than others. [VIDEO] Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: OK.So once again,here is the prescription. Very simple. 4 times at least a week,30 minutes of physical exercise at least Mindfulness meditation. If it's good for you,every day 10,15 minutes. If not,at the very least, a few deep breaths strategically place throughout the day. 8 hours of sleep at night and at least 5,ideally 12 hugs a day. This is probably the most powerful psychological prescription that you will ever get or hear about. And all it does is bring us back to our base level of well being, our God given or genes level,genes given level of happiness. Let's move on now to another topic. Here is what I want to talk to you about today. [SONG: Let's Talk About Love BY CELINE DION] Let's talk about love Let's talk about us Let's talk about life Let's talk about trust Let's talk about love OK.[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] So let's talk about love- the most talked about topic, the most felt topic talked about everywhere from the dining room to the bedroom,to the classroom evidently. And yet it's the most misunderstood topic out there. Relationships- close,intimate relationships, whether it's with lovers,whether it's with family members, whether it's with close soul mates,friends, is the No.1 predictor of happiness. Our focus today will be on- and the next lesson will be on- romantic relationships. However,we are focusing on romantic relationships simply because in many ways it's the tip of the stem; it includes many of the things that other relationships include. But the ideas that we talk about apply as much to close friendships, family relationships as well. Let me begin by showing you a ? excerpt from the movie "In Her Shoes"- when Cameron Diaz reads something, a beautiful poem to her sister in the movie who is getting married. Just the volume please. [VIDEO: CLIP OF MOVIE "IN HER SHOES"] And now a very special moment. Young lady? Uh,this isn't in the program. Cause it's a surprise. I surprise Rose a lot. Uh,usually,she hates it. I think,or I hope she likes this. It's a poem by E.E.Cummings. For you. "I carry your heart with me. I carry it in my heart. I am never without it. Anywhere I go,you go,my dear. And whatever is done by only me is your doing,my dearling. I fear no fate. For you are my fate,my sweet. I want no world,for,beautiful,you are my world,my true. Here's the deepest secret no one knows. Here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud and the sky of the sky of a tree called life, which grows higher than the soul can hope or mind can hide. It's the wonder that's keeping the stars apart. I carry your heart. I carry it in my heart." Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: What is that? Root of the root,bud of the bud? The thing that keeps the stars apart? Well let's try and understand it. Just a little bit more than we already do. Once again,relationships are a natural need. No person is an island.No one can survive. No one can certainly thrive without relationships. Let's revisit the research that we talked about couple of months ago of the extremely happy people. Remember at dinner and Martin Seligman chose the 10 percent happiest group, the tip of the stem and study them. And one of the things that they found if you remember was that they experience hardships just like everyone else. They experience anxiety,stress,depression at times,frustration However,the difference between them and the rest- those are not the tip of the stem- is that they recover more promptly. They have a stronger immune system in other words. One of the reasons why they have a stronger immune system, one of the reasons they interpret their experience differently is because they have- and this is differentiator between them and the rest- they have thriving personal,interpersonal relationships- whether it's with romantic partners,or with soul mates, or with family members,or all of the above. But this is one distinguishing characteristic of this group- that they have close,intimate relationships. And that makes all the difference. Why? For two reasons. First of all,because when you are happy, you share your happiness with someone close to you who truly cares about- that enhances, amplifies your happiness as well as their happiness. That's the win-win. When you go through hardships and difficulties, having close relationships helps us overcome it. So again,whether it's from the negative to the zero, or from the zero to the positive,close intimate relationships contribute significantly to becoming happy. The key though in relationships is to know yourself, meaning to know your needs. Because we don't all have the same relationship need. There is no one prescription. You know,there's no,OK,five hugs a day then you'll be happier; 5 close friends,you know,one or two lovers and... There is no such prescription. It's different for different people. And I want to revisit the lasagna principle. Remember the lasagna principle from the happiness book. And that is that we all need- example I gave there is so I love my family- the most important thing in the world to me. However,that doesn't mean I want to spend,you know, 8 or 10 hours a day with my family every day all day. You know I also need my quota of solitude. I need my Yoga.I need my exercise,my writing,my teaching. That does not mean that my family is any less important to me. Or let's say I love to write,which I do. I can write for three hours a day,not longer. And the reason why that's the lasagna principle- if you remember lasagna is my favorite food. And whenever I go home,my mom makes lasagna. But that does not mean I want lasagna every day all day. You know five times a week is more than enough for me. Or once a week. But you need to find your quota- the same with relationships. The same with relationships. Ask yourself: how many hours a day is good for me, pleasant for me,enjoyable for me to spend with other people. One of the things that differentiates people in terms of the right amount is introversion and extraversion. We actually have physiological, base level of where we are compared to the optimum. Let me illustrate. So there is what's called optimum level of arousal, cognitively speaking. Optimum level of arousal. And this,let's say is our optimum level of arousal. And we are all born somewhere around this,either above,below- very few people are right on the line. Introverts have a higher level of arousal, higher innate level of arousal. This is the introversion. Extraverts have a lower level of arousal, compared to the optimum level. Now we all physically see,or emotionally, cognitively and physically look for experiencing the optimum level of arousal because that's the most convenient. That's when we are at our best. That's when we enjoy ourselves more, which is why introverts whose innate natural state is above the optimum level of arousal, actually need to reduce level of arousal. So they enjoy spending time by themselves. In contrast,extraverts have a lower arousal level. And it's not as pleasant as when they get it to the optimum level So they go out to a party where there is a lot of arousal, a lot of things happening, a lot of people in order to get their optimum level of arousal, which is why generally... What does alcohol do? Alcohol reduces our level of arousal, which is why introverts very often need a glass of wine or a bottle before they dance. Because to dance while other people are watching increases level of arousal. So what the alcohol does is reduce their level of arousal. And then dancing is comfortable and they are fine with it. In contrast,many extraverts need coffee which is a stimulant in order to stay awake. Because the coffee gets them up to their optimum level of arousal Again,I'm giving you a sketch of- again there's a lot of research ever since Issac for decades about introversion and extraversion. Now by the way this does not mean that we cannot act,- in the words of Brian Little,- we cannot act out of nature, meaning an introvert can act like an extravert. Here I am- I'm an introvert and- by the way this is physio... We are born with this state.It's innate. So I was born an introvert. And yet when I'm standing in front of the class, and sing beautiful songs,I'm acting like an extravert. However the important thing while we can act out of nature is to understand that very often this enervates us. It takes away energy. It's difficult for us because we are acting so if I'm here, when I teach,I go even higher- even further from my optimum level of arousal. And that takes away energy which is why introverts after acting like an extravert whether it's at a party or in a lecture, need what Brian Little calls a restorative niche. A restorative niche- a place to restore. And that would be a place where they would spend time one on one with someone, or some hours of solitude,of recovery. Remember,the problem is not stress. The problem is not stress. The problem is when we don't have recovery. And introverts need recovery. Some time on their own.Some time one on one. So life for me,for example,form of recovery is office hours- easy for me to meet students you know for 4 hours straight. It's a form of recovery. If I was only teaching,and only standing in front of audience, that would ultimately lead to over work and to me being lethargic Same with an extravert. If you are an extravert, sometimes you have to do introverts' stuff. So for example you need to study for an exam. And yet it would be nice to study for an exam at the Cog, but may be not that helpful. So you are studying by yourself or with one person. And what do you need after that is a restorative niche, because it's enervating for an extravert to be far from their optimum level of arousal. You need a restorative niche. Where is that restorative niche? I need to go out for a party with friends. And that for them is a restorative niche. So again,know thyself. Know what your relationship needs are. Doesn't mean you cannot act out of the nature. You can. But at the same time it must be able to have a formal recovery, a restorative niche according to your first nature, being an introvert or an extravert. To summarize,the number of relationships that you need that would be best for you- depends on your personal,unique needs. The number of hours you want to spend with other people differs for everyone. There's no right or wrong here. Some people enjoy spending 10 hours a day with friends, you know more than extraverts; other people,one on one,intimate time, 2-3 hours a day is what they need. There is no right or wrong here. Doesn't mean you love people any less. Or neither does it mean that you don't need intimate relationships if you are one or the other Both need close intimate relationships- soul mates,romantic partners,family members- whatever it is. It's a need. David Myers:"There are few stronger predictors of happiness than a close,nurturing,equitable,intimate, lifelong companionship with one's best friend." There's been a lot more research done on opposite sex relationshipthan same sex relationship. However,over the last few years,especially through the work of John Gottman from the University of Washington, probably the leading researcher in this area. He's been doing much more work on single sex relationship. And what their finding- some very similar results with some differences. And we'll get to some of those interesting- because they are informing differences. Probably not today,but next time. So when I talk about the relationship, I'm talking about the relationship and that David Myers is talking about is companionship, romantic relationship that is life-long. Same sex or opposite sex. The interesting thing about relationships is that everyone benefits from it. But as I mentioned already once before,men benefit more. Why do they benefit more? Because for the first time often, men have someone they can share with, whereas women have-more often,more likely- have their girl friends whom they talk to about certain issues. They share their happiness as well as their sorrow with. However,both sexes in opposite and same sex relationships benefit from intimate relationships. Let me show you a quick video excerpt of a description of what marriage is all about. [VIDEO: Clip of Everybody Loves Raymond] Raymond: Look this is marriage. You wake up in the morning,and she's there. You come home at night,and she's there. You eat,she's there. You--you go to sleep,there. And I know that sounds like a bad thing. But it's not.It's not. Not if it's the-- if it's the right person. Then it's good.It's good. It's really,really good. Frank: I would like a minute for rebuttal. Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: So let's look at relationships. First of all,let's look at the state of affairs- as what's actually going on with relationship, long term relationships today. Marriage or other. What we see is not a very pretty picture. So when it comes to marriages, 2/3 of marriages today end up in divorce. This does not mean that the other third are thriving. Because very often,very often, people stay together out of a sense of duty,out of habit, because of a lack of alternative, because they think this is their lot in life. Now this- and I'm certainly not going to argue for the fact that there are no marriages or relationships that should be dissolved. Of course there should be. Not every relationship is right and we often make mistake. But what I am gonna,the argument that I am going to make is that many of the relationships that end, or many of the relationships that reach a state in the words of Thoreau,"quiet desperation", of just being there,just sort of an inertia. Many of these relationships either should not have ended or can actually thrive. The problem though is that we see certainly with the two thirds who end up in divorce, but also with the other third very often there's a failure to sustain love over time. I don't know anyone who has gone to the wedding ceremony or exchanged vows in another setting. I don't know any couple who did that and say, "well,this is just temporary.We are going to do it for you know, 2 years until death do us part,but not really." You know when people go into a relationship, their thought,their hopes is to continue the exact same love and passion that they have at the beginning of the relationship. This is how relationships start.This is the promise of love. And yet more often than not,evidently things don't turn out as we expected them to have turned out. One of the main reasons for it,and one of the reasons that is cited by numerous sex therapists or psychologists- again you don't need to research for that, because it's so self-evident. One of the reasons is because love, and especially lust and passion wears over time. Because we know that novelty produces higher levels of arousal, or in the words of Daryl Bem from Cornell University,psychologist "the exotic is erotic." If it's new,it's more interesting,more fascinating. And this explains why so many relationships end. The question though is- is that necessarily part of our nature? And the answer is yes and no. Yes, it's necessarily part of our nature that novelty excites us more, that we adapt to what happens. Remember we are change detectors. We become much more aroused, whether it's cognitively,psychologically,or physically, physiologically when there's something new. And we adapt over time it for good and ill. Now it would be wonderful if that wasn't the case for positive events, for positive experiences such as finding a romantic partner. But it isn't. The question is- what do we do with it? Let me first share with you before we get to "what do we do with it"- let me share with you a study that I ran. Hopefully it would be published in a respectable academic journal soon. But my research question- it's a very important one- was who is the hottest woman and the hottest man in the world? Or scientifically put,who is the fairest of the mall? And I posed this question to my sophomore class, when I taught a sophomore tutorial in psychology. And we had a long debate about it. But at the end,we came up with scientific results. So those of you who don't have the powerpoints in front of you, who do you think is chosen as the hottest male? [Inaudible.Laugh]You get an A. Anyone else wants an A? No. Who was chosen as the hottest male in the world? Bill Clinton? No. Who? George Clooney? Close but no cigar. (Brad Pitt!) You got it. Here is standing right outside Troy, telling Helen that he'll be right over. Who is the hottest female in the world as scientific proven by the sophomore tutorial? You! Right! Another A. Who was she? (Angelina Jolie.) Angelina Jolie? No. (Halle Berry.) Halle Berry. Here she is telling Adrien Brody that she'll kill him if he comes step closer to her. Now imagine this.Imagine this. Imagine that you find your Brad Pitt or Halle Berry- your ideal man or woman. Not only are they sizzling hot, but they are also extremely sensitive,wise, way beyond their years,saintly,generous,benevolent, make 10 million dollars a movie. And most importantly, they love you just as much,if not more than you love them. Just imagine if that happens. And you meet your Brad Pitt or whoever your Achilles heel is. Or you meet Halle Berry or superwoman or spiderwoman, whomever it is for you.Imagine that. And you see them.You talk to them. And you fall in love; and they fall in love with you. And you get married. And the first night after your marriage- or before. That's your choice. You get home. No armour is going to stop you. No gun is going to drive you away. You make passionate love for hours and days and weeks and months. You don't even turn up for positive psychology. It's so good. Imagine that.Just imagine. And then of course the screen comes down, and you live happily and lustily ever after. Right? Maybe. Now imagine this.Five years into the relationship. With this amazing sensitive,wise,hot,wealthy person. Five years into the relationship. You take part in a psychological experiment. And here is the experiment. They hook you up to all these electrodes, to all these physiological,cognitive measurements. And they measure your level of physiological arousal. And then your Brad Pitt or Halle Berry or whoever it is walk into the room and they see how physically aroused you become. And then they leave. And then someone else,who is moderately attractive- you know, no Brad Pitt and Halle Berry, but someone who is moderately attractive walks into the room. When would you become more physically,instinctually- when would you become more physically aroused? In general- does not always happen- but overwhelming majority of times. You'll become more physically aroused when the new person comes in. Why? Because the exotic is erotic. Because novelty excites. Now you know we laugh about this, but it actually to some extent explains this statistics, which is why so many relationships go soar when they start off with the best of intentions, with the most honest intentions,and yet they flounder. And this is the part of the reason why. So is this bad news? Not necessarily. It's not bad or good.It is. It's like talking about the law of gravity. The law of gravity- bad? No.It's not bad. It's good? It's not good either.It simply is. So like we talked about painful emotions- are they bad? No. Are they good? No.They simply are. And if you want to lead a happy life, if we want to have a thriving healthy relationship, what we need to do is first and foremost accept nature. It's not good or bad news; it's simply real news or not news because again we all know this. And the question is what do we do with it? How do we obey nature so that we can command it? And what I'm gonna talk about today and even more so next time is how we can take relationships, given the fact that novelty excites,given the fact that on the physiological level the arousal will be higher- by the way that applies for men and women. The excitement will be higher when there's a new person. Given all that, how can we create relationships that thrive,that soar, that go way beyond the zero to the positive. And it's possible. And positive psychology can help us do it. The first step before accepting reality is understanding what true love really means. Because many people,many people ask this question: does it even exist in reality? So yeah it exists in fiction; it exists in movies. But you know these characters on the movie screen are literally larger than life. They deliver perfect lines; they make perfect love. How am I going to be able to do that? And in fact how am I going to experience what they are experiencing? Does true love really exist? Because can I ever live up to the kind of the relationship that Ingrid Bergman and Humphrey Bogart had? Can I reach the heights of 40000 feet? Can I have the same mystical connection as Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks had? And will I ever be able to sleep with the British Prime Minister? Or Hugh Grant? Is it possible? Is it real? And you know self-help books don't help much. One of my actual favorite self-help writers,Leo Buscaglia- who's also a professor at University of Southern California. Wonderful writer. Compassionate passionate speaker- helped me a lot. It was the first self-help book that I read- was about living,loving and learning. Here is what he writes about love and relationships: "Perfect love is rare indeed -for to be a lover will require that you continually have the subtlety of the very wise, the flexibility of the child,the sensitivity of the artist, the understanding of the philosopher, the acceptance of the saint, the tolerance of the scholar and the fortitude of the certain." What a beautiful passage. So beautiful and so detrimental. Who can live up to this? Anyone? You see there is no perfect love. To expect this of myself,of my partner, of our relationship is to set us up for failure. I would not want Tammy to expect this in her partner. Because I can guarantee you I would fail her. I have failed her,according to the standards. As she me.It's impossible.It's unrealistic. And we set ourselves up for failure when our expectations are larger than life. When our expectations are perfect lines,or perfect love. And yet this is what we read about. This is what we see. And we begin to internalize this- this straight line of our relationship, which is perfect and unreal. But while perfect love doesn't exist,true love does. True love exists between imperfect humans. What is true love? How can positive psychology help us identify it? First,by asking different questions that have been mostly been asked in this area. Second,by focusing not just on what works, but on what works best on the few relationship that really thrive that have not dissolved,that have not ended, that are not just here in a state of quiet desperate, or as Pink Floyd said,just "comfortably numb"- but relationships that are here. Let's learn from them.Let's learn from the tip of the stem. So the first thing that we need to do is reframe the question. Remember we did the exact same thing with at risk youth. We did the exact same thing with people who are happy,healthy and successful. We did the same thing when it came to the geometric shapes. Because questions start a quest. And questions define reality. And traditional psychology has asked- couple's counselors,researchers in the area have asked- why do so many long term relationships fail? Why do so many people after a year or two or five years together end their relationship? Why is that many people who do stay together are no longer thriving? And one of the answers that they got was because novelty arouses us. Because it's part of human nature to seek excitement. The erotic is the exotic. That's one of the answers and again it's a true answer; it's an important thing to take into consideration. It's part of the reality whether we like it or not. But that question is not enough- just like the similar question was not enough when we asked about at risk population, or when I asked you about the geometric shapes. And when we only ask this question, we quite literally miss a part of reality and a very important part of reality- a part of reality can lead to lasting,thriving, passionate relationships. And the question that positive psychology asks is "what makes some relationships thrive and grow stronger over time?" Because there are such relationships. You know I was fortunate to see a relationship like that between my grandmother whom I told you about and my grandfather. They were married for 53 years. The pictures that we have of them,and the way they were together is that my grandmother who was the matriarch of the family- you know a very,very powerful woman,always,also very humorous- was of her sitting down and my grandfather next to her with his hand on her shoulder, just looking at her. Just like a 16 year old in love. They were married for 53 years. Of course with their ups and downs and disagreements and disappointments. They are not perfect either. But they had a thriving relationship,passionate relationship. What is about these relationships? What makes them successful? And the important question is "what can we learn and apply to our relationships, if what we are interested in is a long term passionate relationship?" So let's learn from what works. Let's learn not just from what works, but let's learn from what works best- the best relationships that we can look at and study and learn from. Here are some of the lessons that we can learn from these relationships. And I'm going to draw on to researchers. First,John Gottman whom I mentioned before. And the second- David Schnarch. David Schnarch as well as John Gottman as I mentioned earlier have done research, a very good research on opposite as well as same sex relationships. Here are some of the things that they find I will talk about. "At first,when I figured out how to predict divorce, I thought I had found the key to saving marriages. But like so many experts before me,I was wrong. I was not able to crack the code to saving marriages until I started to analyze what went right in happy marriages." He wrote this,if I'm not mistaking,in 19...Sorry 1999. And 2001 he took a step further and we'll see next week in the research where he studied same sex relationships and learned even more things than he studied what goes well in opposite sex relationships. But the key was to study successful relationship, whatever the relationship was,whatever its nature was. And when he studied those,that make all the difference. He could predict, he can predict divorce with an accuracy level of 94 percent. 94 percent.That's an unheard figure in social sciences. Quite remarkable.And he was able to do it. But it didn't help him create better long term relationship. It was only when he started to ask this question- "what makes some relationships thrive That's when he went ahead and was able to prescribe better relationships. The second person that I will draw on is David Schnarch. And here is what he says in his wonderful book, "Passionate Marriage". "Cellulite and sexual potential are highly correlated." what he showed in his research studying the best relationships is that not only do they enjoy spending time together over the years but the best sex that they have in their lives doesn't come when they are 18 or 25 or 35. It actually is for 50 and 60 years olds. So you have a lot to look forward to. Now that does not mean, that does not mean it can't be great at 18. It can even be greater at 50 and 60. That's what he showed in his research of thriving relationships. Now these are not the majority of the relationships, unfortunately. Because most people today by the age of 50 and 60, they are into their second or third marriage or long term relationship. However very often it is later on that it becomes better. And that's when it's devious away, goes away from the just physiological level of arousal, which may be stronger at the age of 24 they say for men and 35 for women. And I mean I don't where did they get these numbers from. But we actually peak potentially- note the word here- potentially we peak in our 50s and 60s. And why? We'll understand later. So here are the things that we are going to talk about in the next class. We are going to engage in growing statistic. We are going to look at the best relationships, just like we looked at the best teacher Marva Collins; just like we looked at the best meditators,Lama Oser and others. We are going to look at the best relationships and ask what can we learn from it and apply to our lives. One minute.One minute. And we are gonna talk about four different topics. First- that relationship is about hard work. If you want to thrive at work,you need to work hard; if you want to thrive in a relationship,you need to invest. Second- and we'll talk about how to invest. That the best relationships are ones that create high levels of intimacy that get to know one another in a deeper level. And these are the relationships that thrive. These are the relationships that also maintain passion and enhance passion 5,10,and 50 years hence; the best relationships are not relationships that are devoid of conflict- and we'll talk about what that means and what that looks like. And finally we are in a positive psychology class. It is about appreciating the positive. Because when we appreciate the good,the good appreciates, whether in ourselves or in others. See you on Thursday. [Applause] 



 Chapter 18: 如何让爱情天长地久


Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: Hi.Good afternoon.Good morning. Today we are going to continue talking about love. But before,if there is a Nadia in this room, and you left a key chain in class. We have it here. So please come and see me afterwards. So let's talk about love. Last time,we left off with more questions than answers. The question was- difficult question was "how can we sustain love? How can we sustain passion beyond the honeymoon phase?" Because even if we did have our Brad Pitt or Halle Berry, that does not guarantee lasting passion. In fact,what we know that does guarantee over time is a waning of the physiological excitement that we experience when we are with that person. And that in part explains some of the statistics, such as 2/3 of marriages end up in divorce, such as even those who do stay together after a while it's out of convenience, out of a sense of duty and not always, or more often than not does not have the same sense of togetherness of passion that existed at the beginning of the relationship with all the good intentions and the hope of the life-long committed relationship- marriage or otherwise. And then we asked "what positive psychology can do for us?" We asked the additional question to the normal question that has been asked for many years, which is "why do so many relationships fail?" It's an important question.It's necessary. It's very far from being sufficient. And it leads to the same errors, to the same shortcomings that asking only the negative question leads to when we are studying at risk youth, when we are studying time management and stress. Because when we only ask one of the questions, what we are missing are the children on the bus, metaphorically speaking. What we are missing are the colors in the reality in front us, if the only question we focus on is "how many geometric shapes are there?" Questions create reality. And very often,if we don't certain question, certain answers are obscure and disappear. So we ask this question and we ask not just about "what makes relationships work", but "what makes relationships thrive?" And psychologists such as David Schnarch and John Gottman in their extraordinary books, extraordinary research talk about some of these characteristics. So let's get into them. The first one is about working hard. This is the world's best kept secret.It's the secret of success. It's the secret of personal success,of successful relationships. There are no short cuts- if we want a relationship to thrive,to succeed, we need to put a lot of work in it. Now that seems self-evident,obvious common sense. But so often in this class we have seen what Voltaire has remarked,"common sense is not that common." Now why is common sense not that common? When it applies to working hard in a relationship. The reason is because many people have wrong expectations of the relationship or of what it means to have happy relationships specifically. Most people believe that the most important part of enjoying a happy life-long committed relationship is finding the right partner. And that's certainly important, but it is a mistake to focus on finding. People have- if we draw an analogy to Carol Dweck's research on fixed versus malleable mindset- people have a finding mindset that hurts the relationship. Let me explain. So going back- we did this before spring break. What Carol Dweck showed was when we praise people for their intelligence- "oh you are so smart"- after doing well on the test,they enter the fixed mindset. Versus if we praise them for "oh you've worked so hard". They have a malleable mindset.And that has consequences. Because the fixed mindset- the intelligence- "you are so smart" doesn't help them much. And then when they go to the next puzzle, next task which is difficult,that threatens their schema- "oh if I don't get it,if I don't succeed, it means I'm no longer smart." And they give up more easily. They are more threatened by failure. And they don't enjoy the process. They become perfectionists, or more likely to become perfectionists. OK,so this is the fixed mindset. You are so smart.You are so intelligent. The malleable mindset- "oh you work so hard". Oh I can work with that. So even if I don't succeed,don't do well, I can still learn and I do learn to enjoy the process more. So that's the malleable mindset. Now let's draw an analogy to what we've just discussed here. If I believe that the most important thing about enjoying life-long,committed, happy relationship is finding the right partner, I enter what I call- again by analogy,the finding mindset, which will be an equivalent to Dweck's fixed mindset. And then let's say I have this mindset. This is the most important thing. And then we go through a rough patch in our relationship. Then what happens? Then I begin to think "wait a minute. Something's wrong here.I must have not found the right partner. I must have made a mistake- an error of judgment." And that very often leads to a worsening of the situation. And it can,doesn't always,but can lead to a downward spiral. This is the finding mindset. Because it's fixed I found my knight in shining armor. I found my dream woman.I found my Brad Pitt,my Halle Berry. And you know that problem is that reality inevitably hits. We can't run away from it. And reality dictates that there are no perfect relationships. Remember that Leo Buscaglia's quote about, "perfect love is rare indeed." No it's not rare.It doesn't exist. And when we realize that- if we have the finding mindset,the fixed mindset, it threatens our schema. There is inconsistency and then we begin to think "well I probably did not find the right person." In contrast,if we have the cultivating mindset,that's malleable That's related to the effort part- "OK. So we are going through a hardship. We are going through difficulty. But it's OK.Because we are working on it. We are working to resolve it." It's like the students who were praised for their effort- "OK. So I'm not solving this puzzle now. But so what? I'm putting in a lot of effort. I'm trying; I'm even enjoying the process." Look at the direct parallel here between Dweck's work on mindset and our mindset when it comes to relationships. So important- it makes such big difference. And very often we can switch it- not immediately,relatively promptly. Remember Carol Dweck was able to change mindset of people in a single experiment,in a few hours. And we can do the same in our relationship if we truly accept and internalize the fact that relationships or finding the right partner, a good partner is of course important. It is much more important to then cultivate that relationship. We'll get to that in a minute. But the question then arises: so why do people have the finding mindset? Why do people have or not have the cultivating mindset? If it is healthier. One of the main reasons are the movies.Now movies are wonderful. They are terrific.They show us what is possible. Aristotle once said about art that it's -or about fiction- that it's more important than history, because history depicts things as they are, whereas fiction depicts things as they can and ought to be. So it's a wonderful thing; it shows us some model of what's possible, especially the romantic movies. I don't mean romantic in terms of love, romantic in the 18th,19th centuries sense of romantic, showing us how things can work,how things can become, the potential,human nature relationships of our world. So it's a wonderful thing. But one thing that movies don't do well is that they focus on the finding of the right partner, and hence very often entrench,reinforce the finding mindset. Because most of the movies, love stories look like this: there are struggles; there are fights; there are disagreements; there are challenges on the way. And then at the end, Mr and Mrs Smith get together and they live happily ever after. The screen drops and they walk into the sunset. You know what problem is with that picture? The problem is that movies end where love begins. It is after the screen drops that the actual work starts. It is easy to have a good relationship at the beginning, the honey moon phase or you know through the first year or two usually. But then what happens after a while when the initial physical,physiological instinct wanes? What happens when we start to recognize and understand and realize and see that- well this partner is not perfect. What happens then? Well,that's when true love begins. And that's where true love is cultivated and formed. Now I'm not belittling the importance of finding a partner, the right partner,the right person for us. It is of course important. And often it takes kissing many frogs before we find our prince. But the more important part of a thriving long term relationship is the cultivation. This is where the effort starts. It's after the sunset; the difficulties and hardships rise. Now connect it to this,to the mindset is the notion that there is only one right person for us. And all I need to do,all I need to dedicate all my effort and time to is find that right person. And if I have to go all the way to Yale I'll go there to find that person. A modern version of a Shakespeare in tragedy perhaps. Whatever I need to do I will do it- just to find that one right person- even if I'm in Boston,they are in Seattle. I will find that right person. I don't believe that.It's simply not true. It's not the matter of faith. I mean we know many people who thought they found the right person, maybe did find the right person, and then either for tragic reasons or for good reasons they were no longer together. And they found more love. There are 6 billion people in the world. There's more than one right person. So what makes relationship unique? It's not finding that one right person. Once again it's cultivating that one chosen relationship. It's by virtue of working together,of being together, of spending time together,of dedicating one another. That's how we create the one chosen relationship, one special relationship. That's how two separate "I"s become a "we". And again to do that,it doesn't happen over night. It doesn't even happen in a year or two.It takes time. In fact,it doesn't happen; it is happening.It's a process. It's not about success in a relationship; it's about succeeding in a relationship. We cultivated relationship not just simply by putting on the ring or by giving the vows. It's by doing things together. Why is that so important? Let me draw on some research from other areas of psychology. And this is something that I mentioned on a couple of occasions. Some of the most important work done by Muzafer Sherif back in the 1950s,and until Muzafer Sherif came along. As I mentioned before,the hypothesis that people had when it comes to resolving interpersonal conflicts or inter-group conflicts, the belief that people had was that all you need to do is get the conflicting sides together. The dominant hypothesis was what's called "contact hypothesis". Get the two conflicting sides in touch with one another whether it's conflicting ethnic groups, whether it's conflicting individuals. Get them together and you will resolve the conflict. This was much of the work done by Gordon Allport in our department here back in the 1930s. Muzafer Sherif comes along and shows that that's not the case. In fact,just bringing them together, just the contact of the conflicting sides very often,more often than not intensifies the conflict rather than resolve it. And I gave this in a context of Arabic-Israelis conflict, where people just got together and hope that there will be peace in our time. And instead we got more war in our time.Contact is not enough. Not when it comes to bringing nations together; not when it comes to bringing ethnic groups together; and not when it comes to bringing a couple together. You see in a relationship,inevitably there are conflicts. Inevitably.There is no perfect relationship. And if there were perfect relationship, it would not be a conflict-free relationship, as we'll see shortly. So there are conflicts in our relationship- whether it's during the first year or whether it's after two or three years. And serious conflicts- I'm not just saying about you know, conflict about "well you should put down the toilet seat" or "keep it up". I mean serious conflicts.Well that could be serious I guess. But other serious conflicts. And when there is a conflict, and all the couples are doing together,simply being together, in touch with one another- that's not enough to resolve that conflict. And very often it will start as a minor conflict and then get worse- spiral up,or rather spiral down over time. So what does Sherif say and what do we know today? That the important thing in resolving conflicts is having a super ordinate goal. When the two ethnic groups,when the two nations work together, and are inter-dependent- whether it's in business,or in a relationship, it could be raising children- but doing the things together, or belonging to the same political campaign, or opposite political campaigns- that's fine. But working together, supporting one another and when you have the working together, the doing together, that's when you are most likely to resolve the conflicts. And in fact these conflicts as we'll see shortly can make the relationship even stronger. But the couple need mutually meaningful goals. And again,it could be having children together and raising the children together. You know not just the "OK.We had the child. And then the mother or the father raise the kid- more often the mother." And OK.So we did something together.No. The kid has to be to put in a very delicate and- I'm sure appropriate terms- the kid has to be a joint venture. Isn't it a lovely term to describe having kids? As long as they don't bring any bad debt or you know there is a good return on investment. Yeah,just the right language there. Took me a while to think about it. So working together,bringing up the kids together, or being on campaigns together, or helping one another at work but doing things together. John Gottman: "In the strongest marriages, husband and wife share a deep sense of meaning. They don't just "get along"- they also support each other's hopes and aspirations and build a sense of purpose into their lives together." That doesn't mean that they have to do everything together. I mean it's OK for one to have his or her own meaningful goals at work, where they don't work together- that's perfectly fine. But in addition there have to be things that are done together. In other words,what we need is an active kind of love. You know the first time I really understood the meaning the active love was through a story that Shahar who's one of my best friends in Israel told me. We were in the same class, but he got married at a relatively young age. It was in his early 20s and had his first kid soon after. And he is very introspective, very honest,high levels of integrity. And he told me at the beginning when he had Noam, when Noam came home from hospital with his wife,his mom, Shahar didn't really feel love toward Noam. He was very cute and adorable. But he didn't feel a strong sense of love that he thought he should have felt. Needless to say he felt enormously guilty about it. That didn't last for long fortunately. Because as soon as Shahar started to taking care, started taking care of Noam which meant changing his diapers, which meant getting up in middle of the night and feeding him, which meant taking him for walks,which meant cleaning after him- that's when the love was cultivated. That's when he started to feel a deep sense of fatherhood for the first time. So it wasn't natural. For some people it is natural- for women more often, but not always,more often than men. So we can rely on and wait for this natural thing to happen or we can actively engage in activities that show and illustrate our love. Remember self-perception theory? We very often form theories and beliefs about ourselves based on how we behave. So examples we used in the past: if I see myself going up to someone and ask them out, even if they say no,I perceive myself as someone with confidence And my self-esteem will go up,regardless of the response. If I see myself trying out for plays, I will perceive myself as someone courageous. If I perceive myself as... If if I take care of myself,I'll see myself as someone with self-esteem who cares about him or herself. So the same with children. If I see myself taking care of my child, my conclusion in self-perception theory is "oh I must love that child". And that love actually intensifies over time, whether it's with children,whether it's with partners. We may experience the love automatically at the beginning; it could be the love at the first sight. However,if we don't sustain the active love, over time because of self-perception theory, over time that will go away. Because I don't invest anything in a relationship, self-perception theory- "oh it must not be that important for you." And then the love wanes- not to mention all the physiological reasons why it wanes over time. So if there isn't the active love,it cannot be sustained. How do we sustain love? How do we remain active? Realtionship rituals.You know we talked about the rituals. I told you about the rituals that my wife and I had usually- have,two days a week, meals with the whole family additional at least. Once a week,usually it's three or four times a week. But we have these rituals. Because without rituals,in our modern world, the important yet not urgent in the words of Steven Covey, the important and yet not urgent activities will take a backseat. So yeah we know it's important to go on dates. But it's not as urgent as phone call I just receive from work and I have to wait or stay at work,whereas if there is a ritual, if we do it no matter what then it will sustain itself. The second way and extremely important way of sustaining love is making that shift from desire to be validated to the desire to be known. This advice that I got from David Schnarch in his book "Passionate Marriage"- this single advice has quite literally transformed my relationships, whether it's my romantic relationship with my wife or my relationship with my friends, family members as well as students. And I mention this before,and I want to go more in depth here. Because it is so crucial for sustaining passion, for sustaining friendship,for sustaining happiness. Individual- intrapersonal as well as inter-personal happiness. So what does that mean? What is being known rather than being validated mean? First of all one thing that David Schnarch and others have shown is that if we want to sustain passion beyond the honeymoon phase, beyond the time when it's automatic, what we need to do is form deeper levels of intimacy. And couples- again now we are studying couples who have been together for 20,30,40 years and still have a passionate relationship. Couples who do that,the tip of the stem unfortunately, but couples who do that, have cultivated and continue to cultivate- not find- cultivate intimacy throughout their lives. And how do you cultivate intimacy? By getting to know one another more and more, more deeply,more meaningfully. By understanding one another, by getting to know one another as we know ourselves. And that means that if we are up to be known by the other partner that means we must open up. That means we must reveal. That means we need to share of ourselves- not just the wonderful and the amazing and the terrific things that we share on the first date.That too. But in addition, also the things that sometimes we are not that proud of. Our weaknesses perhaps. Some of the things that maybe we are ashamed of, that we don't feel very comfortable... That no one knows about us. Now that does not happen on the first date- it shouldn't happened on the first date. Very often it doesn't happen after 5 or 10  years. It happens gradually over time as trust increases, and reveal more and more... Sometimes we reveal things about ourselves that we didn't even know that existed; that we repressed or suppressed over time. But it takes time, which is why going back to David Schnarch's quote about cellulite and sexual potential, that usually happens after age 10,20,30 years, which is why at the age of 50 and 60, there is even better sexual potential than at the age of 18 or 20 or 30. Doesn't mean it can't be great at 18,20 and 30, but it can be even greater.Why? Because deeper levels of intimacy,deeper level of connectedness. A lot of look forward to, if we understand what is the nature of passionate relationship. It cannot just rely on "well we came together; I found my princess/prince charming and we'll live happily after" No,it means also taking risks at times. It means revealing over time our deepest desires, our deepest fantasies, our greatest strengths as well as our weaknesses, our insecurities and our passions. That is what it means to be revealed,to open up,to share. What it means is that a healthy relationship is about expressing ourselves rather than trying to constantly impress. This is the difference between being known- express versus being validated- let me impress her; let me impress him; let me impress them. The thing about this is that- yes, it is more risky to open up,to express ourselves. Because what if she doesn't like me? What if he doesn't like what he finds out about me? But you see when we express, we are more likely to have a thriving relationship- it's not guaranteed by any stretch of imagination. It's not guaranteed. However if we just impress,we are guaranteed failure. Here is why. First of all,when we express,generally,over time, maybe not in the short term,but over time, people will be more attracted to us,- specifically my partner will like me even more over time because of our deeper levels of intimacy, even they sometimes find out things that they don't necessarily like or adore or appreciate. Over time it's people who are genuine, who will attract other people and- by the way this applies in the realm of – of course- interpersonal relationships. It applies in the realm of friendships. And it applies in the realm of leadership- the greatest leaders, as Peter Drucker has illustrated, are not the people who are the most charismatic. They are not the people who are the most engaging. They are the people who have the highest levels of integrity. These are the leaders whom followers follow over time in a long term. So whether it's interpersonal group relationships or individual relationships, when we express ourselves,we are much more likely to thrive. The second thing though is,that's important to keep in mind, is that let's say I impress and I do such a good job of it that the other person or the other group actually likes me. It worked.I won. Well,have I? Who do they really like? Do they like me or do they like that image, that facade that I put on. In other words,it's not me that they really like. And it may look like it.But it's pretense. It's make-believe.It's not the real thing.In other words,I lose. And it certainly cannot sustain itself over time. So we have more likelihood of succeeding when we express; and zero likelihood of succeeding in the long term when our primary objective is impress. Now this does not mean going on first date and not trying to impress. I mean I've not met anyone who has not tried to impress on the first date or the 10th, or after 10 years- that's OK.However, what is the primary motivator in our time being together? Just like we reveal,we open up,we share, we also need to get and make active effort to get to know our partner,to know what their favorite wine is, what their favorite flowers are; where they like to be tickled,where they like to be touched; what are their fears,what are their desires; when is it a good time to maybe give their own space, when is it a good time to talk to them, when is it a good time to touch them. And all these things take time. It doesn't happen on the first date. It doesn't happen in the first year. And it doesn't all happen in the first ten years,or thirty years That's what it means to create a lifelong thriving relationship that we get to know the other person throughout our lives. My grandfather and grandmother,my role models, when it comes to relationships, got to know each other deeper and better after 50 years as well. They did thrive; they were thriving. They did not succeed; they were succeeding,growing together. David Schnarch: "Intimacy is about letting yourself really be known, including parts that you or your partner don't like. But it's not just about letting 'warts' be known. It often involves showing strengths you've been hiding,too. Most approaches focus on getting your partner's validation and acceptance when you disclose. But you can't count on this,and if you try, it inherently limits self-disclosure because you won't say things your partner won't validate. Resolving gridlock requires intimacy based on validating yourself." Many,if not most,couples counselors,sex therapists believe that the most important thing in a relationship, in a healthy long relationship is that the partners validate one another. And that is important. Of course I want to be validated by my partner. Of course I validate my partner. However,that's not the foundation of a healthy relationship. And this is where most therapists, most couples are and this is where I was wrong- not understanding the foundation is to be known, whether it's in a romantic relationship or a relationship with friends. You see when you disclose,when you disclose, you are taking a risk. And very often, it leads to a conflict,a disagreement,disease in a relationship However usually,not always, but usually-that is a temporary disease. On the other hand, if you disclose over time and you open up and you share, that's when you lead to long lasting, positive consequences to the relationship. So on the one hand,when you disclose, it's uncomfortable by definition. If it's comfortable,then it wouldn't be hard, wouldn't be real disclose. It's difficult in the short term, but in a long term,it leads to growth. So the question is what do you want? Do you want a temporary feeling-good?- Oh you are validated; you are wonderful. Let me impress and show you how terrific I am. Because it feels good to be validated. Or are you looking for long-term thriving interpersonal friendships or romantic relationships? That is the question. Now I said earlier and I spoke about it a couple of months ago and I want to repeat it: how it changed my relationship with my students, how it changed,transformed my teaching. Because when I started to teach,my main goal- whether it was explicit and at the time,it was explicit, but mostly,on the subconscious level was to be validated. I really wanted my students to like me. That was my primary goal,my primary objective. Over time,as David Schnarch specifically as well as looking other people's work such as Parker Palmer's "The courage to Teach", my objective changed to be known. This is my mantra now. Everyday before I stand here and talk to you, every single day I think about and read my mantra. In fact on the first page of my notes- these are my notes,my cheat sheet. On the top- "be known".Every day. To be known rather than to be validated- that transforms my relationship with my students and my teaching for various reasons. First of all,it's so stressful enervating to think constantly "I have to impress whether it's with my romantic partner or you know,650 or 1000 students". It's difficult.There's a lot of pressure there. It is much easier to stand up here and say "OK. What I want the students to do is to get to know me better." And that means to get to know the field that I'm so passionate and so caring about. I want them to know me better.So I feel so much lighter about it. I feel so much lighter about it in my interaction with Tammy, when it's about being known rather than impressing, rather than being validated. That's the first important thing. The second thing about trying to impress constantly is if we put on a fa?ade and act and then I tried- tried- if I want to be validated constantly,to seem perfect so that the students really like me and approve of me. But then what I'm doing is that I'm hurting the students as well. Because if I'm good at it,if I'm good at putting on a fa?ade and depicting this perfect teacher, I'm being a terrible role model, which in the long term will only hurt the students. Because that thing doesn't exist. And if anyone is inspired to this perfection, whether in a relationship,whether on the individual level, it is inevitably a prescription for perfectionism hence for failure,hence for unhappiness. Or if I'm here to be known, which means my weaknesses,my failures- whether it's my failure in Cambridge,my failure here, whether it's the anxiety,then you'll see a real person- whether it's the mistakes,you'll see a real person. And that's a much better teacher, much more accessible I hope than the fa?ade, perfect to thereabout to be validated. And again,beyond the fact,it is so much fun for me being here. Because what I'm doing now is sharing with you. I'm sharing my part of self with you. And I'm sharing the field that I'm so passionate about and care about so much. To be known,to be known rather than to be validated. Easier said than done. But the benefits,especially the long term benefits are immense. Absolutely immense. The third point is about allowing for conflict in a relationship. You see one of the misunderstandings about healthy relationships is that those relationships don't have conflict- they don't fight The gold standard is a conflict free relationship. And that's a serious misunderstanding. John Gottman has done a lot of work in this area. One of the things that he showed was that there is not one right relationship. And that also means different relationships look differently from outside or from the inside. Some relationships thrive and they are very quiet. Some relationships thrive and are extremely volatile. Both can succeed. There is no one right form of relationship. There are numerous permutations and variations on this. But there is one right relationship, one thing that Gottman has found is that in all those relationships- whether they are volatile or very peaceful and quiet, or somewhere in between,they all have conflicts. And on average- again this is average, because you know it can be 10 to 1. It can also be 3 to 1. But on average, they have 1 conflict for each 5 positive interactions. Now it doesn't mean now going home and telling your partner, "you know we've already had 7 good interactions. Let's fight." Certainly not that.But that is what he's seen, when he studied hundreds,thousands of thriving couples. That was more or less the average of conflict per positive interaction. This statistics by the way helped me a lot. Because whenever Tammy and I used to fight,- and yes we do fight at times,I used to say,"oh,what's wrong?" Versus "now it's OK.It's natural. Let's see how we can resolve it, what we can learn from it,how we can grow from it." It doesn't mean I enjoy it,that we seek conflict. It's awful.And sometimes it hurts very deeply. But at the same time to understand it's natural. And just like we give ourselves the permission to be human on an individual level, it's important that we give our relationship the permission to be human and humane. People who have that 5 to 1 ratio, again more or less usually have the thriving relationship. People who have a lot less than 1 to 5 ratio,meaning 100 to 1, the relationship in the long term does not thrive,nor do people who have many more conflicts than positive interactions. So neither extremes are good. The importance of conflict is that it immunizes us. Let's look at the natural or physiological level of immunity. What would happen to a person, just born and put into a oxygen tank not- which is sterilized- and not taken out of that sterilized oxygen tank? What would happen if say after 2 years,or 3 years,or 10 years, that baby,now no longer a baby is taken out of that perfect surrounding into the real world? That person is very likely to get ill. Very likely to get seriously ill. Why? Because it's not healthy to be in a sterilized environment on the physiological level. Because every time you get ill, or every time you are exposed to pollutions or bacteria, your body actually strengthens. The same in a relationship. If you are not exposed to conflicting relationship, over time,over time the relationship will not strengthen. You'll be weak;it'll be unable to sustain the inevitable conflict that will arise. So conflict immunizes us.It is important. And we'll talk about in what ways or what the conflict looks like Because not every conflict is healthy. The key that Gottman talks about is not to take away or eliminate the negative, but rather to accentuate,to strengthen the positive. So in relationships that don't thrive where there's too much fighting,- relationships that are here. Just accentuate the positive. If you are here and there are no conflicts,well that means maybe we are suppressing things- emotions,disagreements. In other words,we are not being known and we need to move on, and reveal ourselves,open up and share. Here are some ways of accentuating the positive. So you remember in the book of,on,in "Happier", I talk about happiness boosters. These are mini activities- could be anywhere from a minute to 3 hours of doing things are both meaningful and pleasurable to us. So just like we have happiness boosters that can have a trickle effect for the rest of our lives. We can also have love boosters. There is a story about Albert Einstein and Ludwig van der Rohe. Ludwig van der Rohe was one of the founders of quantum physics. And when Ludwig van der Rohe wrote Einstein a letter saying to him "you know I want to introduce you to this new fascinating field of quantum physics. I want your support." Einstein was a big shot at the time. Einstein responded with a letter. And in the letter said to Ludwig van der Rohe: "I'm not interested in quantum physics. What I'm not interested are...I'm not interested in the details. What I am interested in is what God thought about when He created the world. I'm not interested in the details. I am interested in is what God thought about when He created the world."- to which Ludwig van der Rohe wrote back, saying,"God is in the details." The same with love.Love is in the details. Love is not in that one week or two months around the world cruise; love is not in that 5 carat diamond ring. Yes these things are wonderful; they are certainly to a spike in well being, sometimes to a spike in love, but they are not what sustains a happy relationship. What sustains a happy relationship are the details. The little things. The day to day rituals,the touch,the gaze,the meal together. Mini love boosters also sustain. I got this idea from Peter Fraenkel who is From the Ackerman Family Center in New York. And what he talks about are 30 seconds pleasure points throughout the day, whether it's a passionate kiss, whether it's just a hug where you just hold one another, whether it's just sending a text message to your partner saying how much you love them and miss them- the little things. And what they found was these little things made the big difference. Again,yes,the big things also make a difference. I'm not belittling them.But that just leads to a spike. To sustain happiness it takes time,and it takes work. It takes commitment. A relationship is made extraordinary by focusing on these details on day to day activities. And how we do that? We demonstrate interest, by asking "so how is your day sweetheart", or "tell me more about what you have just done", or "what have you been thinking", or you know "you look a little bit down- anything I can do". Demonstrate interest.Create love maps. Get to know the other person- what they like; what they don't like; and how they like it. Again,the little things such as touching, such as smiling,such as flowers, such as remembering the important dates,men. Today is much easier. You know we have the computer reminding us- have many reminders. Talking from personal experience. Pay compliments.Pay compliments to your partners. You know don't take for granted. Remember the word appreciate- two meanings. To pay compliment to someone- oh you look wonderful; oh this is so great- thank you so much for doing; thank you for thinking of me. Paying compliments- appreciating makes the good appreciates. When we don't appreciate,when we don't pay compliments, the good depreciates. Mark Twain: "I can live for two months on a good compliment." Don't take him literally though. Let me share with you a story. This is my father in law and his wife. My father in law is a graduate at Harvard law school- very bright,very smart and married to- his name is Amie. Married to a lovely woman Rachel- Rahel(Hebrew pronunciation). And they went on a date. Rahel- Rachel was wearing a beautiful dress. And they walked into a party and they spent a whole night. And there were so many people.It was a lovely evening. And at the end of the evening,they went back home. And Rachel asked Amie, you know she said,"Amie,you know the whole night, after getting compliments about how wonderful I look, how ravishing the dress is,how radiant I look, I got it from everyone except for from you." Now remember Amie is a Harvard law graduate- very smart,very quick on his feet. One of the leading lawyers in Israel.So he said, "Rahel- Rachel,do you remember when a couple of months ago, I told you how beautiful,how gorgeous you were?" And she said,"yes.Of course I remember." He said,"well until further notice,you are beautiful." Now.[Laugh] Now that almost worked. The problem was Rahel- Rachel is also a lawyer. Very bright.Very successful. And she said to him, "Amie,sweetheart,until further notice,you are on the couch." So don't wait.Don't wait to be asked to give compliments. Give it.It's free. And yet though it's free, in the ultimate currency it is invaluable.Invaluable. Because we get so much out of it- the giver as well as the receiver. You know the No.1 predictor of therapeutic relationships the No.1 predictor of the success of therapist, of psychologist or social worker or psychiatrist is empathy. How well you are able to understand,to empathize, to identify with your client. It's no different in romantic relationships. Do I really listen to my partner? Do I really look at my partner? Do I demonstrate genuine interest in what my partner is doing,feeling? And how they are? Do I really really want to get to know them? Because if we don't have that, it is very difficult to sustain a long term thriving relationship And finally,sex is important for long term thriving relationship It does not have to come before marriage; does not have to come before there is a life long commitment- marriage or other. It can; it often does in our world. And either way is fine- either choice. However,for the long term success of the relationship, it is also important to have the physical aspect. It's very rare- it exists- but it's very rare to a romantic relationship without the physical component. Cause that's one of the distinguishing characteristics between that and a deep friendship,for example. Love at its- or rather sex at its highest is love made concrete. Love made concrete. That is why we talk about making love. It's the concretization of the emotion,of that abstract notion. The important thing here is, as every other areas of the relationship,healthy communication. Because very often we reveal ourselves,we share of ourselves in the bedroom more than in any other place, whether it's physically or emotionally or cognitively. That's where we open up. That's when we are literally metaphorically naked. And communication is important because very often there are differences in expectations. And there is no one right prescription here- OK,you know sex 5 times a week,the best relationships; 3,not bad; 1,OK. No,there are fantastic relationships where it's you know, once a day or twice a month- sorry,or once a week. There are wonderful relationship...[Laugh] Or there is every day 3 times. No.There is no one right prescription. I don't know what I said was funny, but I'll have to watch it after because I'm sure Freud is watching now. And the important thing is to communicate. Because it is a source of conflict. It is a potential source of conflict. It doesn't have to be. Let me show you a quick video just to get the attention off me for a minute. From Woody Allen. [Movie: Annie Hall (1977)- subtitles on the screen] That day in Brooklyn was the last day I remember having a good time. We never have any laughs anymore. I've been moody and dissatisfied. How often do you sleep together? Do you have sex often? Hardly ever.Maybe three times a week. Constantly.I'd say three times a week. Like the other night,Alvy wanted to have sex. She would not sleep with me the other night,you know? I don't know. I mean Six months ago I would have done it just to please him. I tried everything. I put on soft music and my red light bulb. But the thing is since our discussions here, I feel I have a right to my own feelings. I think you would have been happy, because I really asserted myself. The incredible thing about it is, I'm paying for her analysis and she's making progress, and I'm getting screwed. I don't know. I feel so guilty,because Alvy is paying for it. So you know I do feel guilty if I don't go to bed with him. But if I do go to bed with him, it's like I'm going against my own feelings. -I'm not making any progress.  -I can't win. Sometimes I think I should live with a woman. Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: So hardly ever- 3 times a week. Constantly- 3 times a week.Again,different perceptions. Communication is important.Not any conflict is good. There is positive as well as negative conflict. Helpful research in this area comes actually from organizational behavior. Specifically,what research in organizational behavior shows is that healthy inter-group or intra-group conflict is cognitive conflict rather than affective conflict. Cognitive conflict is about focusing on the person's behavior, or thoughts and ideas,and challenging those. Unhealthy conflict is focusing on the person,on the emotions, on who they are. And when I attack someone for who they are- the person,the emotion,that is not healthy- not for a group,not for couples . At the same time, I can disagree with,can have conflict when it comes, when we focus on the ideas,the thought and the behavior. Let me show you an example. Here is an example of focusing on the person. You are so inconsiderate. This is not the behavior; this is the person. Focusing on the behavior: do you mind putting down the toilet seat when you are done? It may be as the result of the same thing- you know,you didn't put the toilet seat down. One response- you are so inconsiderate. That's the person.versus the behavior. Another example.You are such a slob. You promised to throw away the garbage. I can't trust you.That is an attack on the person. Yeah I think so. Versus it upsets me to return to a dirty home after we agreed that you throw away the garbage. Same event. Very different approach, very different results to these criticisms. In addition to challenging behavior rather than person- sorry. It is important to avoid hostility,insult and contempt. John Gottman talks about this a lot in his research. And he says,one,he can predict divorce with 94 percent accuracy as I mentioned last time. Unheard of in the social sciences. And he can do it based on whether he sees- in the disagreements,in the conflicts and he asks the partners to describe their conflict. And very often they start fighting as he observes them. When there is hostility,when there is contempt, very often that is a bad sign- doesn't always lead to divorce. Certainly not.But it is a bad sign. It is a bad sign in terms of the long term likelihood of success, but it's also a bad sign in terms of the current enjoyment of the relationship. So it is important to keep these insults away, to focus on the person,to validate the person, to appreciate the person,and then to disagree with the behavior or with the ideas and the thinking. The key is to keep these disputes private,meaning: it is difficult enough to fight in a relationship; it is extraordinary difficult when embarrassment is also associated with it. So couples who shout at one another when there are others. Or when they show contempt,when other friends are there. That is extremely destructive,extremely unhelpful. So to keep these intimate moments that can potentially lead to growth private. Finally we can learn a lot from conflicts in gay couples. As I mentioned last time, John Gottman has studied gay couples a great deal. And one of the interesting things that he found was that they fight differently. Now the interesting thing here- it would not have been interesting if that was just between women The interesting thing is that he found it also between men. Because women generally are better at fights than men. And there is actually a physiological reason for it. There is a physiological reason because men when they are attacked for example, or they feel attacked or threatened,or disapproved of, actually have a much more powerful,physiological response to it, which is why men are more likely for example to switch off. It's not just because they are men; it 's because their real physiological differences there; where a woman,for example, who is criticized,will feel it- no on enjoys it. But the men- again these are all average. It doesn't mean all men or all women. But on average,men will feel it in a much more intense way and then will try to protect themselves. And one of the ways of protecting ourselves is by switching off, avoiding rather than coping. Whereas women are much more comfortable even on the physiological level- I'm not talking about the interpretation of that physiology. But on the physiological level, they are much more comfortable handling and dealing with this disease or discomfort of an argument. So the first thing is to know it, whether you are a man and you understand- I shouldn't switch. I know I'm uncomfortable.It's part of my nature.I accept it. And then you can cope rather than avoid. Or with women,to have more empathy and understand that their partner's experience is not the same as their experience. But here is the interesting thing- in gay couples,men or women, we see an enhanced,a better ability to disagree. For example,how do they do it? First thing, more positive,more humor,more affection,more touching, whether it's the men or women. And that helps to dissolve, to relax some of the tension that exists. Again,both for men and for women couples. The negativity is less often taken personally. So even if there is a serious disagreement- well, I understand this is a part of growth. This is important to keep in mind that yes we may not be enjoying ourselves now. It is a serious fight. But what can I learn from it? what are we going to learn? How are we going to grow? Because I understand the conflict is a natural,inevitable, important part of our relationship. Gay couples do it more; no reason why heterosexual couples can't do it more. Simply by reminding. And finally,there's more attention to the other side, to calm down,to understand,to be empathic, whether it's men or women. To be empathic and understand and soothe. And very often,just in a middle of conflict, saying something like,you know "I'm sorry" or just a hug. Or you know "it hurts me and I love you so much". Just ways of soothing, alleviating some of the pressure in the conflict. Because conflicts are not easy. Certainly not easy for gay couples either. It's just being able to manage a conflict when it occurs. Does not need to be peculiar to same sex relationships. You know we talked about- we know the golden rule: do not do unto others what you would not have done unto yourself. We talked about the platinum rule: do not do unto yourself what you would not do unto others, when we talked about perfectionism and the permission to be human So here is the Titanium rule: do not do unto those close to you what you would not have done unto others who are not so close to you. You know how often in the street or when you just met someone, do you shout at them? Or find other ways of showing contempt or insult? Being aggressive or passively aggressive? How many times do you do that to strangers? I mean they really would have to do a terrible, awful thing for you to express contempt, or hostility,or anger toward them? And yet on average,we do it so much more often- again,not always,not everyone- but so many people do it so often with people close to them, whether it's family members,whether it's a very close friend, whether it's romantic partners. No justification for that. Yes,it is also because we are more intimate with them, because we feel more comfortable with them,but why? Why treat others better than we treat the people we love the most? Why treat the people we love the most worse than we would treat others? There 's no justification.There can be conflict. There will be conflicts.And it is important. Question is how do you keep it on the cognitive behavior level rather than the affective,emotional,contempt level? And that can make all the differences. Essentially what we are talking about here when it comes to romantic relationships is cultivating a deep meaningful friendship. John Gottman: "At the heart of my program is the simple truth that happy marriages are based on a deep friendship. By this I mean a mutual respect for and enjoyment of each other's company. These couples tend to know each other intimately— they are well versed in each other's likes,dislikes, personality quirks,hopes,and dreams. They have an abiding regard for each other and express this fondness not just in the big ways, but in little ways day in and day out." Love is in the details. It's about knowing the little things,the big things. It is about sharing and being known. That's what a healthy relationship is.And that's how you can sustain passion in a relationship over years. And that's how you can continue to enjoy a passionate, sexual relationship,even though physiologically, maybe initially the natural inclination would be toward novelty, toward the "exotic is erotic". It doesn't have to be that way. It can be that way as well and that's natural. And that can the fantasies that you share. But ultimately for the long term relationship, passionate relationship,to be known rather than to be validated. Finally the fourth component of the healthy relationship- I'll just touch it now and we'll finish it up next week- positive perception. In a relationship,a healthy relationship the partners have to be the benefit finders. They have to appreciate one another. Because remember if we don't appreciate,the good depreciates. If we don't appreciate what is working in a relationship, pass the honeymoon phase, the relationship will enter a downward spiral. And unfortunately,that happens to most relationships. Because we begin to take it for granted. And if we take for granted a relationship,it withers and dies. If we take for granted our own potential, that potential withers and dies. So benefit finding is important in a relationship. To focus on the discipline of my partner rather than on the rigidity. To focus on their sense of humor rather than look at it as frivolous. Focusing on the good; focusing on what works. And that is then accentuated. However successful thriving couples take this step further. They are not just benefit finders; they have what Sandra Murray calls,positive illusions. In other words, they think of their partner more than other people think of them. So the experiment that Sandra Murray did was the following: she asked couples to evaluate one another's strengths and then she asked other people who are close to these two partners to evaluate their strengths. And what she found was that couples who evaluated accurately, meaning they evaluated their partner in the same way as others- friends,family members evaluated them- they were OK. They were OK together. Couples who evaluated one another's strengths on a lower level, meaning they didn't evaluate them as good, as strong,as powerful,as virtuous- whatever it was- as other people did,whether it's family or friends, these relationships did not last for long on average. Couples who evaluated each other at a higher level, meaning as better than friends evaluated them, as better than family evaluated them, these couples' relationships were most likely to thrive and succeed over time. And Sandra Murray called it- because they were not connected to the evaluation of other people, Sandra Murray called it "positive illusions". Now- or another term used Brad Little used this term, having an "illusory glow" about them, seeing them as better than supposedly they really are. Now I agree partially with Sandra Murray. I agree with her that it is important to have these high, more positive evaluations. The one thing that I disagree with Murray is on the use of the word illusion. Because I don't think that is an illusion. In fact,it is very real. It is very real because it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. And here I'm introducing a new term in addition to benefit finding,benefit creating. Seeing things that were not there or the other people had not seen and then making it real. And think about in another domain. Was Marva Collins detached? Did Marva Collins have positive illusions about her students? Not at all. I would argue the others,the other teachers were detached because they didn't see that potential in their students. Marva Collins was very much connected. And she focused on the positive and created the benefits. Abraham Maslow: "Not only does love perceive potentialities but it also actualizes them." Let me tell you a quick story about Tammy. And as I mentioned to you,Tammy is a consummate merit finder. In fact,she is a merit creator. So this was at time when Tammy was 8 months pregnant. Huge baby.Those of you who know David,he's a very big baby. Like father,like son. So this is 8 month pregnant and Tammy takes me for one of those talks that those of you in long term relationships know about. And she says,"Tal,you know,this is getting really heavy. This is really difficult for me and I just need your help more. You just need to help me a little bit more in the house." And I said to her,"fine." I felt so sheepish and so inconsiderate. And I said,"I'm sorry.Fine.So what can I do?" And she said,"you know shopping this afternoon would help. I just can't carry these bags any more." So I went to the Star Market.Filled up the entire refrigerator. Not only brought the things home, but actually put them in the refrigerator. Because I felt so guilty. And Tammy saw that and she said "you know thank you so much for doing it." And I said to Tammy, "Tammy,no,I'm really sorry that you had to tell me you know. I should have done it without..." And she said,"no no no no.This is what I love about you so much. You are so considerate and you listen to me when I talk." So I did the dishes too. Again,benefit creating rather than only benefit finding or focusing on what doesn't work. I will not see you on Tuesday. I'm away for,almost the whole week of passover. But you'll gonna have a treat on Tuesday, an amazing lecture by Shaun on humor. I will see you. [Cheers and laugh] 



 Chapter 19: 幸福与幽默


Shawn Achor:Good morning.I'm so excited to be here. Tal is gone,which means that this morning I am the teacher for the defense against the dark arts, which I'm pretty sure makes me just as Dwight would say in The Office, the assistant professor of positive psychology instead of merely the assistant to the professor of positive psychology. Many of you know me as head TF Shawn,or just Shawn, or the Imzar of Kirkland House,or Mr.Positivity, or the guy who looks like a shizzle Roman god of War. But what many of you may not know is that I have a softer side too. When I was little, I broke my sister's arms in 3 different places. We were playing war and we were running around the living room, jumping over cushions as soldiers do. And at one point of this conflict,as my report which I filed to my parents later on clearly indicated that I saw Cobra Commander takes a snap shot at my sister, with absolutely no regard for my own safety, I reversed direction,dove head first into my sister, pushing her all the way out of the oncoming invisible bullet and into a brick wall. When my dad came into the room, I was standing above her,saying,"I'm a hero! I saved her!" Now does this make me a hero? No.This doesn't make me... You know who the real heroes are? The real heroes are the people that wake up every day, put on their ordinary clothes,go into their ordinary job, get a distress call from the mayor, put on their costume and go and fight crime. Those are the real heroes. You know who's the hero? Hiro from the Heroes. Do you know where this is from? (Student: The Office!) The Office.Good. We have one person that watches comedy.Good.Thank you. I tell you the story because later that afternoon, my sister and I were,after we went to the emergency room, we were playing on top of my bunk bed,and we were playing war. We were slow learners. And this time it was my G.I.Joe against her my little ponies. And in the midst of acting of this geopolitical conflict, my sister got really excited and leaned too far back on the bed. As a result, she suddenly disappeared of the back of top of the bunk bed. I looked over the side of the bunk bed,going,"not today." And I saw my sister there lying on the floor with her... She landed painfully on her hands and knees on the floor. And I saw this wail of suffering and pain and injustice about to erupt out of my sister's mouth. Now my parents have charged me with playing as safely and as quietly as possible with my sister, seeing how I just broke her arm. And who are they gonna blame if something happens to my sister again later on that day than the child that they love most, the one who they wanted to grow up to be a Ghostbuster, the one who also broke her arm? Me. So I did the only thing my frantic 7 year old brain can think to do, and I said,"Amy,Amy,wait! Wait! Did you see how you landed? No human lands like that.You are a unicorn." Now this was absolutely cheating, if I knew there was nothing in the world my sister wanted more than for the rest of the world to realize that she was in fact a unicorn. And you can see on my sister's face this conflict as her brain is tempted to devote resources to contemplating her new, contemplating her pain and suffering and injustice as she fell off her bed with a broken arm; or on the other side, devoting resources to viewing the world and contemplating her new found identity as a unicorn. And the latter won out and a smile spread across my sister's face She laughed and she scrambled back on the bunk bed with all the grace of a baby unicorn. Now what we realized is that this tender age of just 7 and 5 years old with something that is going to be the heart as the vanguard of the positive psychology revolution that we've been talking about, about how our brain is basically a single processor, capable of consciously choosing to devote resources either to the pain and suffering on one side, or viewing the world that lens of something like optimism or mindfulness. So too I think humor is exactly in this the facet. I think that humor itself is the option, the mindful option of choosing between viewing the world through the lens of being,of suffering,of optimism- suffering,not optimism,suffering,of pain,of injustice, or viewing the world through the lens of something of adaptive and powerful. So today I actually bought a new one of these cause the other one didn't work. Because I didn't turn on the power. So I defined humor today as a mindful lens, through which we can view the world as a way of mindfully perceiving the world, analogous to optimism, where an individual heightens awareness of potentials within a situation. Today we are going to talk about a lot of different definitions of happiness and different ways that we can perceive of it and the effects upon all of us. But before we do so,I wanna talk a little bit about why we are doing this in the first place. First of all,Tal knew that he's going to be away today. He told me repeatedly in March that there's no way he's going to teach during the Tuesday after 420 which I just, I assume he meant because of the Passover. And so I agreed to give a talk on humor because it seems that it seams through the proverbial cracks of the assigned readings and syllabus for this course. If you are unaware that there are assigned readings and a syllabus for this course, you talk to me after class. So I'm sure that Tal was said to not be here this week and last weekend, cause he missed to see the Wu-Tang Clan and Gavin Degraw reunited at last. Did you guys see the Crimson article from yesterday that described how one of the members of Wu-Tang Clan, an unidentified member of Wu-Tang Clan held out his microphone at one point during the concert for the rest of the audience to, just infer them to do the lyrics,to finish the lyrics for him. And what he was met was a stony stone silence. He responded, "well I guess you guys aren't as smart as you thought you were." You know you hit the rock bottom when an unidentified member of Wu-Tang Clan is making fun of you. So I'm excited about being here today for several reasons. First of all,I think humor is one of the most important part of the positive psychology that we'll be talk about,because it matters at every single level of things that we describe. If you know me,you'll know that I went here as an undergraduate- I studied English and religion,went to the Divinity School when I studied Christian and Buddhist Ethics. And now I moved to study psychology and running a positive psychology consulting firm out of Kirkland beach 23. And I'm also the sort of intramural tutor/legends/national hero in Kirkland house. I'm very important.I'm very important. I've many leather bound books and my room smells a rich mahogany. It also looks a lot like a dorm. I tell you this because I'm running out things to say and this synthesis of religion and psychology and English and philosophy well all play an important part in today's lecture. So today,very quickly the things that we'll talk about: we'll talk about psychology of humor; we are going to talk about the mental and physical benefits of humor; we'll talk about the positive social benefits, pragmatic steps that you can take on your own and the greatest power of humor which is I believe the therapeutic value of humor, the ability to view the world in a completely different way by changing our cognitive mindsets. Now many of you know that I'm responsible for writing much of the final. I'm also a slow reader. This combination means the majority of the final will be probably on this lecture. So I'll definitely point out the parts of the lecture that you absolutely need to write down which surely must be extremely copious notes from this morning. So let me tell you about – I know you are sitting there, looking at my PowerPoint slides and thinking yourself, "I'm probably gonna name my first three children Shawn regardless of gender. And I wonder what it is that got Shawn in psychology in the first place." Well I'll tell you so you can concentrate, but it also serves as a case study for us today. I fell in love with psychology when I fell in love with my babysitter. With my babysitters. All of my babysitters came from my dad's psychology class. He taught psychology in Bell University. So all of my babysitters came from his classes. And I fell in love with all of them. And I realized at one point that the dating wasn't going as well as I hoped to – we were only dating whenever my parents paid for it. And so I decided to take matters in my own hand. And I decided that the only way that I could possibly date these girls was to be part of their world for a little bit. I took this advice from Ariel of the Little Mermaid.And so I decided to volunteer to be part of a psychology experiment in my dad's class. And he was really excited about having me there, so he invited me on the day when they have the brainwave machine in class and they are hooking people up to it. And I thought this would an excellent way for me to impress these girls. Because nothing is as attractive like an electrodes lube on your head and with all these wires hanging off. It's just as hot today as it was then. So anyway I was there,and I was smiling, because they were all smiling at me. And I thought things were going pretty well on our date so far. When all of a sudden,my dad was so excited - he forgot to do something very simple. And it was a rudimentary machine because this was a while ago. He forgot to ground the wire on the brainwave machine. So the very first thing that happened to me was a – on our date,was I got an electroshock. I was like,"Shut it off!" Everyone burst into laughter including all of my future toward love affairs with these women. And my dad was laughing so hard that he was crying. He couldn't even help me. He was able to shove the machine. But that's about it. And I guess he thought it was pretty funny. I guess cruel and unusual punishments were pretty funny I guess. Maybe water boarding next time,dad.Thanks a lot. So I'd love to be part of your experiments again. So anyway I was so embarrassed and so upset. I ripped off all of my electrodes one by one, while everyone was laughing at me, and stalked off the side of the classroom. And right as I get to the door,fortunately, I turned back and said, "dad,thanks a lot for ruining my chance with all my girlfriends," and then slammed the door. And it's true.I never did get any of these girls. So what just happened there? For the few of you that did laugh at the story, what was it that – it's weird. Thing is that the acoustic is building incredible like you can hear the laughter that is going on all the time. It's amazing.It's like the room is eating my laughter. So what just happened there? Well I think that one of the things that's really interesting is that you laugh at the story because it's couched not as a story of tragedy but it's a story of love and child abuse. And we laugh because this is a moment in which we've been primed to laugh, or surrounded by a group of people who, we are probably laughing because we are a roomful of people. Groups have a social effect upon us,right? So if you want to hide a sensation,please feel free to hold the hands with the person sitting next to you. But the interesting thing is when you laugh, laughter itself is so weird. Wikipedia defines humor as "the rhythmic,vocalized,expiratory and involuntary actions", which is I also hire to define as much of my dancing. But when you are laughing and right now, 15 facial muscles in your body are going crazy, including your zygomatic major muscle which is raising your lips at the same time. This is pretty cool.I have no idea how this happens. But epiglottis starts to cover over your larynx, which makes constricting your breathing, which means you are basically suffocating, which is why you are having trouble catching your breath. You are welcome. Blood pressure is lowered,while at the same time somehow you have an increased vascular blood flow and you flex your abdominal, respiratory,facial,leg,and back muscles. This is the most work out I've ever had.Ever. Now this is amazing that this would happen. And it's clear that humor and laughter has a visceral effect upon us. It clearly has social effect – if you are in a good mood right now, chances are you could be laughing more; if you are in a bad mood right now, chances are you can't help laughing at my joke. So part of what's going on here is that the social environment, the room,the jokes themselves, your physical body are all manifesting changes because of this. The question is then – can we study humor just as we ask the question "can we study happiness?" And what's the point of studying humor? Well,just as Tal mentioned that right now there's a either 17 to 1 or 21 to 1 negative to positive ratio of research that is occurring in the scholar journals. Last night when I supposed to be writing this talk, I looked on the e-resources and found that there's a 97 to 3 ratio of negative to humor research. For example,depression was 125,000 articles, while humor was only 4,943 articles. Nothing came up for "Steven Colbert". But the reason why that this is important is because of something called Medical School Syndrome. We know that the way we study absolutely has effects upon our body. So if you know that the Medical School Syndrome, you'll know that as doctors are learning about all the different diseases that are out there in the world, suddenly they realize they have all of them. And my brother in law called me from medical school and said,"Shawn," – my brother in law's name is Bobo. That's another story. Bobo called me from medical school, and said,"Shawn I have leprosy." And I had no idea how to console him because he just got over a menopause. The way we study the world around us actually changes the lens through which we view the world. And if we are not studying humor, we are missing out one of the major aspects of social interactions, but also the way that the world works. So why don't we talk about humor more often? First of all,humor is extremely difficult to define. Every time you are tempted to define humor, it seems to slip through your fingers. Every time you try... Everyone finds something else funny,right? What I wanted to show for videos today, you might not find funny at all. And what you find funny is objectively not funny at all. I tried to show my parents Superbad cause I thought that was funny. And if they are laughing on the inside, they certainly weren't showing on the outside. Part of what we were doing – you know some people laugh at things serious that are supposed to be serious,like Gossip Girl. And then people on the Kirkland - Kirkland girl have to throw pillows at them and threaten to ad-board them just so I don't miss anything. So why I talk about... So part of it is the definitional problems. It's so difficult for us actually define what humor is, because the moment you begin to define it, it seems to slip through fingers. The moment you are tempted to explain to somebody, explain to your e-harmony date why you are much funnier than they think you are, you already know you've gone down the wrong path for a lot of different reasons. But part of what we are seeing here is that once we are tempted to define something, once we attempt to define what makes something humorous, it immediately seems to go away. This is the Dead Frog Problem. The Dead Frog Problem is that the more you seem to dissect the frog,the faster it seems to die The same is true with a joke. And as a result of this, that makes it very difficult for us to study it. But let's say even if we could study it. Let's say we could study it. We know it has physical and social benefits. That doesn't do us a world of good if people are just naturally funny and some people are unnaturally funny. If you are just genetically funny,if you are born funny, and we all think that there are certain people that are like that if you think that some people are born funny, that doesn't do us any good to talk about the benefits that none of us can access. It's the same way with positive psychology,right? It's the same problem we have with positive and happy and optimistic people – they are just annoying. But part of what we are seeing is, that part of our worry is that while we are studying this, if happiness,positivity and optimism are all based upon genetics then there's no point of studying any of the things we've been talking about so far in this class. The same is true with humor. If we can't access any of those benefits, that just gives the funny people more to laugh at us about. So I think we can overcome all the barriers today. And I think there are some extraordinary research that has been coming out in positive psychology and research specifically on humor that's actually going to allow us to be able to look at this human phenomena in a way that actually is gonna help us in a lot of different ways. So let me tell you that there is actually - in order to study this just as we did with positive psychology, we are going to have to look at where we looked at the humanist tradition of psychology. So too we are going to ground ourselves in the philosophies of humor. We are gonna have to understand the giants of humor. And we are gonna look at two of the theories which I don't find one of them more compelling than the other. What I find really compelling is my explanation which I shall be giving afterwards. So basically there are three giants in the field of psychological research on humor- Sigmund Freud,Henri Bergson,and me. And so we'll first talk about Sigmund Freud. Sigmund Freud whose surely unassailable logical assumptions on the whole host of topics will absolutely stand the test of time. Wrote a book called Jokes and Their Relationship to the Unconscious. Jokes and Their Relationship to the Unconscious - if you haven't read it - is for a guy writing a book about humor, this is the most unfunny collection of stories since Leviticus. And in this book he describes this model consciousness while the inside you have the id - the id contains the sexual and the physical and the violent impulses that we all have. I don't have,cause I went to the Divinity School, but you all have. Outside of that is the ego which makes the decisions about the id as the permeable barrier between the id impulses and the society. And the outside layer is super-ego. The super-ego is the moral constraints, the societal constraints that is placed upon us. So for example,if my id impulse make, means that I'm angry at you,and I want to punch you, my super-ego,the constraints of society prevent me from doing so And in the same way if I was wanting to have sex with somebody and my super-ego said that it was not OK. The super-ego, the moral constraints of society would prevent me from having sex That's probably the only thing keeping me from having sex. It's my super-ego. And so one of the things that we find is that Freud argues we get frustrated. We get frustrated because those id impulses are there but we have no way of getting those impulses out into the world. And so we become repressed. And more you become repressed, I think something's about exploding in the end. So there's something that's really bad about that. So what he says is that humor is a socially acceptable envelope for couching those id desires. It's a way,a socially acceptable way of getting those id impulses out into society,which explains why so much of our humor is sexual or aggressive in nature. There's a lot of different examples that we can talk about this- that humor as a psychological safety vault, is one of the ways which explains why you have sexual innuendo jokes on the first date,right? Before physicality might be socially acceptable, which also explains Michael Scott from the Office - "that's what she said" jokes, where he says "that's what she said" to everything. While some of them are pretty hard to understand,and slippery, and hard to grasp,they always left me smiling and satisfied. So this also explains humor we have toward political figures. A lot of time when political figures were not able to, we have no recourse at the sexual aggressive level to vent our frustration. So humor is actually one of the ways we can get that out there. The humor itself using words is the way that we can allow for id impulses to come out. Because those words don't violate very many of our social constructions. We'll talk about that in a moment - one of the flaws with Freud theory. But supposedly the words don't actually harm us. So it's socially acceptable. Steven Colbert says that six stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me, unless you throw a dictionary at me. Write that down.That's important.Write that down. Henri Bergson is the second giant in the field of humor research. Henri Bergson,which I'm definitely saying right with the French accent combined with a Texan. I think Henri Berg... I think you- with French you drop everything. And... Really? That one was funny? All right. Humor as a social "corrective" - he argues that just like Abraham Maslow who is studied earlier in the class, is that humans are under developmental trajectory toward self-actualization or achieving our potential. And what Bergson argues is that humor is the point in which we correct somebody when we slip or fall off this developmental trajectory, when we do something that doesn't allow us to self-actualize as fast as we could. Comedian Lewis Black for example talks about children who go during the summer to Harry Potter Quidditch camps and ride around on brooms and throw Frisbees - I can't say it - Frisbees at each other. And what he says is to gently chide these children – he said these children might as well start crying about the prom now. What he is doing there is,as we've done something maladaptive like going to a Harry Potter Quidditch camp or paying 14 dollars for a drink at Om or actively enjoying an econometrics or landlord theory or actually ordering food at the Hong Kong lounge and restaurant. In all these situations, we laugh at individuals in order to correct them, to prevent them from falling off this development trajectory so that they can continue on toward self-actualization. If somebody calls,if my girlfriend calls,if my girlfriend,- I was hoping it would get a clap. I knew this wasn't odd.At least no one was laughing. So if a girlfriend calls her boyfriend to leave a scandalous junk dial message, and accidentally leaves this junk dial message on her boyfriend's father's work line, we laugh in order to correct those mistakes. Another story that I heard in Kirkland was somebody who for Halloween dressed up with a making a dress completely out of magazine articles from Cosmo using duck tape and went out on the freezing cold, slipped and fell on the ice on her butt and tore the dress. And I don't even know where to begin with that one. But part of the reason that we laugh is that we all fall through developmental trajectory at some point. And I believe that it was Plato who said that the magazine dresses will not help us self-actualize any faster. So we've looked at two different things: we've looked at humor as a corrective, and we looked humor as a psychology release. I think one of the people that's absolutely brilliant in the field of research on humor as a social corrective is one of the giants I think myself - no one says that - is Dale Sturtevant. Dale Sturtevant is somebody that you definitely want to write down in your notes. And fortunately thanks to the magic of YouTube, we are gonna get to see Dale Sturtevant's approach to psychology. [VIDEO: Dale Sturtevant] I'm Dale Sturtevant. I've been raising dogs since I was six. And nothing has brought me more joy, or more sheer frustration,than training a puppy. With a very young pup, correcting problem behavior can be especially maddening. And,like you, I've probably tried all the tricks - screaming myself hoarse, starving them,locking them in a closet for days on end, or just beating them without mercy. But after my third arrest and court-ordered anger-management counseling, I learned to channel my rage into an effective non-violent puppy training tool. It's called "Dissing Your Dog: how to train your puppy with mockery and verbal humiliation". You see, dogs are much more intuitive than we give them credit for. They know when they're the butt of ridicule. And when they misbehave, a well-placed sarcastic comment or cutting remark can work wonders wherever a rolled-up newspaper fails. Whatever your puppy's behavior problem, I guarantee I can help you fix it. Problems like jumping on furniture. Oh no,no,no,Humphrey,don't get up. Why don't you just stay there,relax? After all, you did put in a long day of work at a demanding high-stress job. Oh no,wait a minute,that's me! Now I remember! I'm the one with the job. You're the one who lies around the house all day in a pool of your own slobber! Accidents in the house. "Hey,Walter! Thanks for your ‘help' with the new off-white sofa. Everybody agrees that dump you left there was the perfect 'accent'. So,good job.Oh,and by the way,Milton Berle called. He wants his bladder control back.That's it! Good dog!" Fussy eating habits. "Oh,right,Margaret,you wanted a prime rib. Here's the deal: The Palm wasn't taking reservations, and I didn't even try Morton's because I understand they have a new chef. So for now,let's just go with the Alpo,okay? I know it's not your first choice but keep in mind, you're a f--king dog! " Shawn:Tears come to my eyes at this modern day Marva Collins. So why do we look at this series? Why do we study these philosophies? How do they help us? Well,they don't,because they are both wrong. And the reason that it is wrong is they missed the part of the, part about humor that I think is most important and my explanation for it. \fe1\fnCalibri\fs15\b1\bord2\shad0\fsp0\c&H0ffffff&So oh you don't have to write all of this down at once - pretended it slowly coming out. So I believe that humor is a mindful lens through which we view the world. And part of the way that we can see that is that we can see that humor itself is the cognitive lens through which we view actions that come into our environment. We can see this by asking question of why is that some people find humor in situations where some people see something as neutral or sad or tragic. Right? Why is it that some people can find things that can be funny where other people can't? And the same way that somebody who is optimistic can find something that is good in a situation, where somebody who's in a neutral state,or pessimistic state, can't see this as well? Now to understand this,part of - this mic is great. Thank you.Yes. I also agree it's a brilliant,a brilliant idea. \fe1\fnCalibri\fs15\b1\bord2\shad0\fsp0\c&H0ffffff&So part of what we are seeing here is we need to - in order to understand this, let's talk a little bit about social rule breaking. I believe that there are unscripted social rules that guide our life all the time that we never really talk about. I taught for social psychology. And for social psychology we, one of the things that we did for the class is that we split people up in pairs, and made them go out and break social rules. So they would go out during the week and they would go into an elevator in one of the houses and then just slowly turned around in that elevator and faced the people behind you. Or just lie down in the elevator and see if people will say anything, or go to Starbucks and haggle for the price of a coffee, saying you can get it cheaper if you made it at home. Or going to the Coop, attempting the barter system for one of the books. Or going to places and asking for free samples for things that we can't get free sample for,like a Felipe's burrito. Or I know one guy who went into his athletic locker and then went up to everyone who is there and asked them if they would please soap up his back because he was tired. Another girl would only take showers in the girls' locker room where somebody else was already taking a shower where shower has already been used. Another person – I mean you can do a lot of different things like you can go into the bathroom and strike up a conversation through the bathroom's door. This one is great. You should do that here,say "hello,neighbor!" Talk amongst yourselves. You know the funniest joke that - wow! Really magnified. Can you guys hear me? Aww,this is great! This should happen all the time. I got a lot of things back here now. Where was I? This is not probably the talk. You guys know – I can never remember any jokes but the funniest joke that they did on the website, like they actually found out what the scientific funniest joke was by doing reading on the website. And one of the Americans was a guy who is hunting - I can't tell jokes. But he was, this guy calls into a operator and goes,"operator! Operator!" This is 911.He says – this is why I can't tell jokes. He was in Scranton,Pennsylvania.This is Tuesday. Anyway,so he calls the operator and says,"Operator! Operator! I think I just shot my friend while we are hunting. I think he's dead!" And the operator goes,"OK.Calm down sir.Calm down sir. The very first thing that we need you to do is check to make sure that he's dead." So he said,"OK.OK." And you hear this quiet,this pause,as he puts down the phone and a few seconds later you here gun shot. PPPCCCHHHUUUUU! And he comes back to his phone and says,"OK.He's dead.Now what?" This is the funniest joke in America.That's surprising. The funniest joke in Europe was – not appropriate. It's: there's two ferrets sitting in a bar. And one ferret says to the other ferret that, "I slept with your mom last night." And the other ferret doesn't say anything. And the other ferret thinks that he doesn't say anything so he says "I slept with your mom last night." And the second ferret says nothing. And he finally - other ferret,ferret A said,"I slept with your mom last night." And ferret B says,"Dad,go home.You are drunk." [Laugh and applause] So the interesting thing about this breaking of social rules is not just the effect that it had on other people, or the awareness that we have, social scripts that are surrounding us all the time. It's the awareness of how we act when we are breaking a social rule. Some of the people that are attempting to do this experiment absolutely broke down. They could not go on with this experiment. Other people found humor in the awkwardness. And because of that,they were able to enjoy the experience and actually cause other people more suffering. Part of what we are seeing here is that - absolutely is the mindset that dictates whether or not something is going to be funny. And if it's mindset,it's within our control. And today we are going to talk about some of the ways you can actually control that. But one of the things that we talked about earlier in this semester was Wiseman's study on the luck factor. Remember the luck factor was where he studied and actually created the luck school, in which you can teach people how to feel more lucky, and how you can give people the same exact scenario where some people would feel lucky, or some people would feel unlucky. So for example,if you walk into a bank, and you are there with a hundred people - actually let's say that we are here in - we are not in Annenberg - we are here in Sanders. And somebody walks in with a gun and fires his weapon one time and shoots me right in the arm. Do I consider this to be a lucky event or an unlucky event? Well according to Wiseman, that depends upon the counterfactual I used to determine this. If I compare to every other time that I have been here and in the theater, that seems to be a pretty unlucky event,right? And it seems to be pretty unfortunate. I mean there's a lot of other people in the room that this person can shoot. I went to the Divinity School. I'm sure I'm better than at least one of the other people in here and deserve this less. So why was I the one that got shot? On the other hand, the counter fact that I could use to compare to see if this is actually a lucky or not lucky event,that counter fact could be "well he could have shot me in the head." Now I know I love that the optimistic and lucky view point as I always choose things that cause the most carnage and blood,right? Or I could've got shot in the head and the heart and died upon stage bleeding to death. That would be - I'm definitely killing the mood. This is just like every day. So it usually happens about 20 minutes in. So based upon the way that I actually decide to counter a fact to that determine whether or not I find something be funny. In the same way,humor is the same way. Look at how much the context matters. If I said something this fact, this innocuous like,"I cut my toe nail." That's not really funny. But if I said "I cut my toe nail in the class". Suddenly it seems to be like a little bit more funny. Not Haha funny but a little bit funnier. Or "alcohol makes you drunk" is an innocuous fact. "Alcohol makes you drunk" before giving a lecture on humor is a little bit funnier. So part of what we are seeing here is that the way that you view the environment, the way that you parse the world actually has a direct effect upon whether or not you find something to be funny in the first place. This is something we call in my sections the Alpha press and the Beta press. The Alpha press is the objective constraints of reality. We are all experiencing the same Alpha press. We are all sitting in the same room with the same lights. But our Beta press - our subjective construal of reality,is different. Every person in here is experiencing something different - they are experiencing - you are either like bored or tired or hungry right now. Or excited and happy.I'm apparently nervous. And part of what you are seeing is that their way of viewing the world absolutely has an effect upon how you view that Alpha press. Things we've been talking about positive psychology so far – I've been talking about the ways in which our Beta press is actually malleable - that we can change our Beta press, and as a result have an extreme amount of changes in our adaptive behavior. I think that humor is one of the most powerful ways that we can actually change the Beta press by changing the way that we actually view our environment so it's actually adaptive for us There are something that they found at Harvard medical school called the Tetris Effect. The Tetris Effect is - how many people play Tetris? A lot.Oooh! Yes.Oooh. Tetris is a – if you haven't played it – is a game in which shapes of different sizes fall from the ceiling as they do it in life. And you rotate them around and you try and make straight lines across. And if you make a straight line all the way across, the line disappears. And you try to keep the shape going all the way up to the top. What they found in their testing - they are actually testing video games on college students. At the medical school,they found that after students played about 4,5 hours of Tetris straight and get paid for,which is a pretty good deal. Then afterwards,they went back to their rooms and went on with their lives for the most part. And there are subjective reports that some of these individuals when they go into a super market, and start rearranging the bread on the shelf so they made straight lines. Or they'd be looking at the traffic and say, "Oh,I'll shape car here to complete that line and make friends that way." Or they would.Or this one guy was actually looking at the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Calendar Issue and when they had all the, like a lot of models all together at one. And his comment was - "I wish I had a Z shape woman who would fit and make that line all the way across." Clearly what he was doing was parsing the entire world even a swimsuit calendar into whether or not he could change shapes in order to make straight lines. Every input has the brainwaves receiving. And our brains receive too much input all the time was being parsed through this one code. Now what we find is that this is something that I call a cognitive afterimage. A cognitive afterimage is just... If you stare the sun for a really long time,you are stupid. And what happens is you momentarily burn your retina. And you can see this blue or green dot in your vision that goes around- happens when a lot of flash photography goes off when I'm at Kirkland House. There are a lot of times after when this can occur. So what that is is the afterimage on your retina. Well the same thing happens on the cognitive level as well. Our brains can actually retain an afterimage and in Tetris effect what was happening is the cognitive afterimage, that people were getting stuck with,was viewing the world through the lens of parsing the world into ways that can rotate shapes to make straight lines. So too the individuals who are doing humor. The people that can look at something like writers for Jon Stewart,or the writers for Steven Colbert Report When they look at the newspaper, when they see something that seems to be neutral or even sad or tragic,they start to change the shape. They rotate the shape in their mind. As a result,they are looking for patterns all the time. They are looking for multiple potentials within a status quo; instead of just seeing a newspaper, they see the possibility of humor that can come out of that. And as you can find, you can find that this can be a detriment sometimes as well. You can get stuck in pattern of looking for things that are humorous, which can be adaptive or if you are in a fight, and all you can do is making jokes - can be very mal-adaptive. So one last thing about humor as a transformative lens before we talk about the benefits of humor is that when we laugh at something, Peter Berger argues that we get a momentary, a momentary suspension of reality - that when we can see something that is alternative to reality, it teaches us that the status quo, the reality that we are seeing in front of us is both malleable and is not the only possible reality, that the status quo absolutely can be changed. So humor provides a way of being actually more mindful. Ellen Langer defines mindfulness as "being present in the situation", so that you can be aware of the potentials in that environment. The definition that I give for humor is almost word for word of what you see with mindfulness. The reason is that I think when you are really present in the situation and when you view the world through a specific pattern, what you are doing is you are actually parsing the world in a way that actually shows more potentials than that environment. So Maslow argues that we have these peak experiences where for momentarily we put on the cloak of self-actualization. When we put this cloak of self-actualization, we momentarily gain and see and glimpse the potentials we actually have. So too I think the humor is in the same vein. I think we momentarily take on self-actualization, because while we are provided with the reality, in which the consequences for actions don't have a negative effect upon us, where we see life giving reality and happiness, even in the situation that seems dry and sad to other people. The ordinary becomes extraordinary, which is one of the traits of peak experiences as Abraham Maslow did. I think the Office is a great example of this. I have two one minute clips from the Office that I want to show you, of where they are taking something that's just - you are in an office,doing something that is ordinary and take the ordinary and make it extraordinary. How many people are there watch the Office? How many people are there not watch the Office? Wow. How many people are not funny? Some of you are not raising your hands -I know that's not true. OK.So,good. How many people in here think they are above, having them above the average sense of humor? Raise your hand. How many people think they are a below average sense of the humor? By the way this would be the rest of you. I don't know what other option you've been waiting for. How many people think you are exactly average? The funny people.All right. So let's watch these two clips and we'll watch how the ordinary becomes extraordinary. [CLIP: THE OFFICE Season 3 - Episode 15 "Phyllis' Wedding"] Jim: Damn,lost another file.Going to have to reboot.Again. Hey,Dwight,do you want an Altoid? Dwight: What do you think? Jim: In school,we learned about this scientist who trained dogs to salivate at the sound of a bell by feeding them whenever a bell rang. For the last couple of weeks I've been conducting a similar experiment. Jim: Dwight,want an Altoid? Dwight: Okay. Jim: Altoid? Dwight: Sure. Jim: Mint,Dwight? Dwight: Inbwit? Yes. Jim: What are you doing? Dwight: I... Jim: What? Dwight: I don't know.My mouth tastes so bad all of a sudden. Shawn Achor:There is one more. [CLIP: THE OFFICE – Season 2 Episode 21 Conflict Resolution] Michael: So Dwight,in your own words - "Someone replaced all my pens and pencils with crayons, I suspect Jim Halpert. Everyone has called me Dwanye all day. I think Jim Halpert paid them to." Jim: YES! 5 bucks each,and it was totally worth it. Michael: "By the end of the day, my desk was about two feet closer to the copier." Jim: Yeah, I just moved it an inch every time he went to the bathroom. And that's how I spent my entire day that day. Michael: "Every time I typed my name it said 'diapers'." Jim: Just a simple macro. Michael: "This morning, I knocked myself in the head with the phone." Jim: That actually took awhile. I had to put more and more nickels into his handset, til he got used to the weight, and then I just ... took them all out. Shawn:So just as Jim performs some of his experiments on Dwight, so too these experiments are gonna reveal how much humor actually has a positive effect upon us. Not only when we are watching the Office, but when we ourselves choose to surround ourselves with people that are funny or decide to be funny ourselves. In order to understand this,there are two parts of human body. Write that down.Only two parts. The sympathetic nervous system and the parasympathetic nervous system. P-A-R-A: the parasympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system is the part of the body that's responsible for dropping chemicals into your body that prepare you for fight or flight. It momentarily makes you super human. You are stronger; you are faster; you have more endurance; you have more energy. Now the problem with being super human all the time and I should know is that it's catabolic, is that when you dump these chemicals into your body while your body becomes stronger momentarily, it actually is tearing down every single organ in your body. Stress has its effect where it actually wears out every tissue, living tissue in your body. Now that's not the end of the story fortunately, because we don't just get more and more excited - our heart rate keeps increasing until we just explode. Because we have the other part of our central nervous system, called the parasympathetic nervous system. The parasympathetic nervous system is responsible for calming the body down, for slowing our breath rate,for slowing our heart rate. It's the part that actually causes rejuvenation. And while we don't feel the spike in our energy levels, we have a longer sustained period of energy, because we are constantly revitalizing, repairing,and creating more energy in and of itself. Helpful drawing. So what does this call is a - somebody calls it the Soprano Effect. I call it the Soprano Effect - no one else calls that. But we'll test on it anyway. So the Soprano Effect is the chronic activation of the sympathetic nervous system. And this is what a lot of Harvard students,including myself do, is that when we are about go prepare for a test or dealing with anything in our lives, I hear so many people before the test say, "I'm totally gonna fail this test. I'm not ready for this test at all. I'm totally gonna fail this test." Or they say themselves, "Oh,I'm so busy.I'm so busy.I'm so stressed." And when they do that, what they are doing is we are leaving everything for last minute, like Tal was talking about procrastination. The resulting effect is that you get that momentary burst of energy, because your sympathetic nervous system is activating. So we get used to that. We get addicted to using that sympathetic nervous system for that boost. And we think that energy was actually gonna allow us to accomplish things. Tony Soprano is in a non-reality but on the HBO series, is a mob boss. And he - the part of the point of the series is that he had to go to therapy which is not necessarily something you want to do as a nefarious crime boss. And he had to go to therapy because he was having panic attacks. His body was shutting down,because he was responding to the fact that he was constantly activating his sympathetic nervous system, whether be his nefarious actions as a crime lord boss - crime lord bo... Whatever – crime lord boss and a couple of adjectives. Or living with his family, trying to live a normal life,living in New Jersey which - living in New Jersey will be even more stressful. And as a result of this,his body was just shutting down. And,so part of what was happening - he was chronically activating his sympathetic nervous system. So the same thing that happens with Harvard students is that often times when we would decide to use that activation, that chronic activation of our sympathetic nervous system and as a result we wear down our bodies. And our bodies actually begin to shut down. Fortunately that's not the end of the story. The greatest buffer against the Soprano Effect is humor. And the reason is that humor, just like mindfulness and meditation, activate the parasympathetic nervous system. And as a result of that,several extraordinary things happen. It's amazing that laughter, something we consider to be just a luxury, something that we do just in our free time as if we have nothing else to do has such a dramatic effect upon our lives. First of all,laughter itself is both medicine and exercise. If you like Jack Candy and deep thoughts from Saturday Night Live there is some quote about - there is something like, "as my father always said,the laughter is the best medicine. That's probably why several of us died of tuberculosis," which is not all that funny,but I decided to go for it anyway. And so it's also a form of exercise that every time you laugh, if you've chosen to laugh at some point during this lecture, or if you are planning on laughing after the lecture, what happens is your body is actually doing a lot of exercise. I already told you how many muscles you actually contract in your body. Well it turns out just 10 to 15 minutes of laughing, 10 to 15 minutes of laughing actually is enough to burn the amount of calories of a medium size block of chocolate,which is pretty good. Also some people report just minute of laughing is enough to get their heart rate up more than 15 minutes of rowing machine exercise. It depends on what you actually are rowing at the time. They also find that it causes - this is amazing,amazing that humor will do something like this at the chemical level - that it actually increases our T-cells in our body which actually strengthen our immune system; increasing our Gamma-interferon, which is the disease fighting protein as well as increasing our B-cells which are responsible for creating antibodies to actually prepare our body to defend against disease. The humor is actually making us better defended against reality, right? It's actually preparing our body to defend itself against the outside world. It's partly the way that it exists, and part of the reason that affects the Soprano Effect is that researchers like Sultanoff found that laughter decreases the amount of serum cortisol that occurs in our body. Cortisol is released when we have a stress response. That stress response if I cause you to be stressful for whatever reason, and your cortisol levels begin to go up; if you cause somebody to laugh midway during that experience, their cortisol levels actually decrease again; that if they are going through a stressful event, laughing in the midst and going through that event will actually allow them to not have all the negative effects of stress, which–remember–tear down every organ in your body. In addition,there is a ton of mental and physical benefits that accrue because of this. First of all,they find that even small doses of humor actually increase our immune system. So what they did is they brought in people who had bronchial asthma. And they exposed them to the dust mite which they are highly allergic to - just make sure that they had those responses. Pretty sure that these were the same people that did the ipecac pregnancy studies that we talked about earlier on in the course or the learned helpless- that's the one who kept shocking the dogs over and over again. So in this case for the bronchial asthma, they exposed them to this dust mite which,umm,potentially fatal And then they had them go away for a little, but they wanted to make sure that everyone had an effect based upon this dust mite. Then they had the people come back to the experiment which shows how smart these people are. And these people with bronchial asthma came back to the same experiment. And half of them before they were exposed to the dust mite again were just told a joke – I don't know what joke they were told but it had to be - they had actually to laugh at it. And the other group was a neutral group, one that they just had to watch or listen to a neutral story. And that shouldn't have any effect upon the way a dust mite affects somebody with bronchial asthma. But what they found was that people that have been told a single joke to beforehand show statistically significantly smaller amounts of flare-up due, flare-up in terms of their asthma. I can't imagine - I was trying to think of funny jokes you could tell people. I couldn't come up with anything. You probably will think of something better than this, but I think like.. No,actually I'm not gonna go for that. Never mind.It wasn't funny. I was going to do a knock-knock joke about bronchial asthma, but it isn't funny. So we also find humor also increases pain tolerance. So there's a group of German researchers – of course they would be German researchers - to find and put individuals, the participants to sign up for this study, put their hands in ice cold ice water. Now this is a standard way in psychology and medical experience of testing somebody's pain tolerance. Because there's usually no lasting effect upon individuals except for debilitating frost-bite. So what they find is that they keep their hands in frozen bucket of ice water, and during this period - so the longer you keep it in,the better your pain tolerance is. Try with your friends.This is a great party trick. And one of the things you can do is you can have one person watch a funny video, one person watch a neutral video, and one person watch sad video while they are doing this. And what they found was that the group that was watching the humor video could keep their hand in the ice bucket for statistically significantly longer than the other groups, the other groups of people, which means that if you find humor funny, you are probably not as smart as other people and you can keep your hand in the ice bucket for longer periods of time. But this is amazing.This is amazing. It wasn't just during experiment that they had found this effect. They even decided to test people 20 minutes after they were exposed to humor. 20 minutes after they were exposed to humor - the same effect occurred that there was a 20 minute after effect of watching something that was humorous in terms of your pain tolerance. Now this has a lot to do and a lot of implications thus for people that are experiencing chronic fatigue or chronic pain in their own lives due to diseases, and the way which humor itself could play a role in that. They also found that after you eat a large meal, that if you have type 2 diabetes and you eat a large meal, that if you are watching something that's humorous afterwards as opposed to something that's neutral surprisingly your blood sugar actually was much lower than the group that have eaten the same exactly meal, which is amazing that it's occurring. And finally they found it decreases stress and increases remission rates in terms of cancer. For example one of the studies was on testicular cancer. And they found that these individuals once they can find a way of laughing and coping, using laughter as coping mechanism,the individual that found laughter as a coping mechanism versus those that did not showed increased levels of remission. In fact their symptoms that they are experiencing actually decrease. And they had higher levels of pain tolerance and decreased stress because of the infliction that they were feeling. Now as a result of this, we've seen some pretty remarkable things about humor. I mean we've seen the ways in which it changes our body chemistry it changes the way our immune system actually fights and defends against these things, it changes our stress levels, it changes the way that our body responds to dust mite and to food and to testicular cancer. There are a lot of different ways that humor actually has an effect upon us,which is remarkable. But also I want to talk about the social effects of humor as well Now if you are here on the very first day of class, I told you these statistics. But I just want to remind you about these statistics, that last year when we tested the Harvard students, we found that the average number of romantic relationships at Harvard was less than one. And the average number of sexual partners was between 0 and .5, the scientific equivalent of second base. And we also found that 24% of you are currently unaware if you are involved in a romantic relationship. Now I just remind you about this, because I think that this is one of the areas where humor could actually do us a lot of good at Harvard. So I taught for human sexuality at Harvard as well, which is an awkward class. How many people took human sexuality? Just one. Hello.This is awkward. So one of the things, the reason why it's so awkward is the very first paper that the students had to write was ten page paper on their first sexual encounter, which I then had to grade. That's really awkward. And I had to make comments like "no,there's no way that happened,"or "this paper took a lot longer to write than you've ever had sex." There's a lot of awkwardness that could possibly... But one of the things that was most awkward about this is that they, for one of the sections they wanted us to show condoms to the Harvard students, because well of the statistics that just showed chances are you haven't seen a condom or anything to rhyme sex. And so what they found is that, they wanted us to give these condoms out in sections so everyone could see one. And so I was teaching four sections for this class so I stuffed 80 condoms into the front pouch of my backpack. And I was sitting at Starbucks,which is my coffice. And I spent all day there,rented out a dollar 49 a day. And I find that while I was sitting there - I don't why I keep saying that - "find". While I was sitting there,there is this girl sitting next to me. And at one point she turned to me and she said, "Do you have a pen that I can borrow?" And I said,"Oh,absolutely! I can definitely get you a pen!" And then I was totally forgetting. And I opened up my backpack and 80 condoms exploded all over her, all over her table,all over the floor underneath her. It took me like 4 minutes to pick all the condoms underneath her. I offered her one. She didn't want that or my pen. But research that's done on first encounters like this has been pretty remarkable. Fraley did some research where you bring people into - forgot something. We'll come back. Fraley found that if you bring people into a room,participants, and they are strangers,and you have them do cooperative task. You have them do a cooperative task. One of TF love the attraction and bondage on my titles. I just think it's funny.So I totally lost my train of thoughts. I'll talk about mirror neurons instead. Mirror neurons are awesome.Cause I skipped this a minute ago. Mirror neurons - we didn't even know we had it in brain, in the human brain until about ten years ago, or actually about even less than that. Then we began to become aware of them . But there's a part that if somebody smiles at you, you almost have to smile back at them. And the reason is because there's part of your brain is lighting up as you are smiling as well, just as if I was standing on stage as somebody came over and tackled me really hard,and everyone goes,"Ooh." You know like feeling mad – you are actually, your brain is lighting up those mirror neurons are lighting up, as if you just got tackled as well, which is reason why people groan at football games even if they are 2000 miles away from the actual stadium. We are actually literally hardwired for empathy for other people. As a result of that,humor is extremely contagious, because these mirror neurons begin to activate when we see other people laughing. Now the reason why this is helpful is because of the attraction that it causes in these first situations. So what they found is they bring in strangers, have them play a competitive game. Afterwards you have them rank the attractiveness and how closely they feel bonded to the person they are working with. And usually the levels of attraction and bondage were pretty low. For the middle group, you have somebody come in and you have them do a cooperative task This is similar to the Wall Street and community games studies that Tal was talking about earlier on this semester. And this experiment - when you have a cooperative task, people's attractiveness,the ratings of attraction and bondage for both of the individuals go up. But if you have that individual do an extremely awkward task together,like play Twister, or you have somebody come into the room that this experimenters are in, and ask them accidently pour water on one of the participants, telling them that they are awkward and leaving the room, allowing them to laugh about it,those individuals - because there is something humorous that is going on - showed the highest ratings of other persons being attractive, and showed the highest levels of bondage. Now what this means is next time you are sitting at a bar, you shouldn't attempt to do some sort of a competitive or a cooperative task with that individual, you should either suggest to play Twister or pour your drink on them and tell them how awkward they are. That witty repertoire is definitely going to increase your bondage. So what they find is dating is an interesting case when it comes to humor, especially in terms of the social elements. So we know that there are certain things that people are attracted to in the physical domain, but there should be no evolutionary advantage at all – right? – to why somebody would pick somebody who is humorous,right? Yeah. How many people in the room would not date somebody if they didn't make enough money? Just raise your hand.OK. Good.A couple of honest people. Evolutionarily,that's the correct answer. But,so,but very few of you. Now raise your hand if you would not date somebody because you found out they had no sense of humor at all? Almost everyone - maybe that's just more socially acceptable answer to do and that might screw the study itself. But the fact is I think a lot of us are being honest that we really want sexual, we really want sense of humor to be part of our mate.Good. You know that it's just gonna happen now over and over again. So what we find in these individuals is that if you are faced with a threat in the wild like a lion, you know,you want to be able to fight it or flee. You don't want to tell the knock-knock joke,right? That doesn't increase your slight of adaptivity of natural selection,right? But what we find is people seem to absolutely favor this. And there's some difference in terms of genders, part of what scientists and psychologists believe is that humor is a signal of cognitive fitness, that just like we want physical fitness in somebody else, so too we want cognitive fitness. We want somebody humorous to view the world from different lenses It actually has a dramatic effect upon not only the way that they can deal with reality but the way they can help you deal with reality. All those benefits we just talked about in terms of the physical benefits of humor are all garnered by people that are surrounded by people that are laughing or they are making the jokes themselves. So if you are around somebody that is funny, you get all those positive benefits as well. In addition,they found a couple of interesting differences - the differences between men and women by a guy named or a woman named Bressler. I'm not sure which one. The differences between men women by Bressler is that they found there's difference in terms of what people are actually looking for. And they just check people flirting at bar. So the experiment was they watch people while they are flirting at the bar - this is just creepy. And what they would do is they make tick marks every time the female or the male would laugh. And then afterwards they would go up and give these two strangers a report and ask them to fill out a report and exchange before they go somewhere else. And so what they found is that the number of laughs by the female correlated with how much the female like the male and that in exchange. They also found out that the number of laughs by the female correlated with how much the male liked her. What they found is the male's laughter had absolutely no effect whatsoever upon the attractiveness of either people. So it seems like and this would be - this is an aggregate but not necessarily case for everyone. Part of what you are seeing is in trends which some people seem to be the joke generator, as some people seem to be the joke receivers. And I think it's interesting to think about where you lie in that match in terms of which one you are actually attempting to do with your own humor style. We also find that it's extremely important in terms of the negotiations in marriage, which are usually just basically the same thing. John Gottman found that - John Gottman is the guy, this relationship expert who did the Four Horsemen - we talked about it earlier in the relationship section. He says that the greatest way to defuse a conflict that is occurring in a negotiation or in a marriage problem, the greatest solution is to find a way to use humor as a coping mechanism. To answer that humor in - while you are feeling stress response or the release of cortisol that I talked about. Even John Gottman views the humor as one of the most important ways of effectiveness. This is the... This is just interesting but not related to what I'm talking about. This is the –this is what brain looks like with the, part of the brain activated most when a college male student is thinking about love. It's beautiful. The rest lights up when you ask them to think about sex. Humor as therapy - I'm just talk about this really quickly, because I want to get onto the most powerful part of humor. Pennebaker's studies which we talked about earlier about journaling said that as you start to journal, you see a spike in your neural activity levels. We actually feel more stress when you are journaling, but then afterwards,deep down to a lower restate. The same is true with humor.Humor- because it crosses the line also increases our stress momentarily but allow us to return back down to a state that is below or a lower restate, because it activate our parasympathetic nervous system. As a result of that, humor can be a very effective way for us to use, to deal with therapeutic situations. Some of the ways that people do it are laughing groups in India, where they had people get in a circle and put their heads on each other's stomachs. And one person starts to go "Ha!" And another person go "Ha ha!" And they'll do this all around the circle till everyone was laughing spontaneously. And it's a great workout. And at the end of it,you actually feel like your well being is so much higher at the end. They also have something called cuddle bunnies,cuddle parties. Cuddle bunnies - that's from the Ladder Theory online if you want to google that. Cuddle parties is something that's in New York that I don't have time to talk about. And transforming trauma and bad days - I think that one of the really interesting parts of it too is humor actually allows us to be able to transform things that we thought were negative or bad or upsetting in the past. And I want to talk about that as the greatest power of humor, but before we do that,I want to say six ways you can actually increase your humor levels as well. First of all,we just talked about one of these. But journaling stories that are unique to you, finding funny stories that just as you have to go through your day and when you journal, try to write about positive experiences, you are scanning your environment for the events that occur in your day which are positive. So too you can do that with humor and train that as a skill just as gratitude you can train as a skill of optimism So what you do is you go through your day, write down something that happened during your day, then play around with it,change the shape of it, keep orienting it until you can find something that is humorous about it, just as Jon Stewart's writers do when they are looking at the news. As a result of that,your brain actually gets in the pattern, the pattern of looking for things that are funny in your life. Second is watching funny people when you observe other people that are funny because of these mirror neurons, you actually pick up the rhythm of humor from them. But there is actually a rhythm you can actually study online if you are interested about this. A rhythm of humor that you can study and that's the reason why patterns and breaking patterns is so important. Be consciously,unconsciously pick those up, just as the visualization practices we were talking about, where if you watch somebody on television who is bad at sport, if you watch them, you actually become bad at that technique as well; so too if you watch them who is good at this sport, you become better at the action at watching. The same occurs when you are watching humor. Also is the Two question - TQP - the Two question process: why am I so funny? Why don't other people recognize this? Keep repeating this to yourself and it absolutely builds your self-esteem. In addition,the permission to be subhuman. Part of what we are seeing and Bergson talks about is that in order to make those jokes and laugh at the things are traumatic, we have to have a momentary anesthesia in our heart. The momentary anesthesia at the heart. And if we don't allow ourselves to be subhuman for a moment, we don't allow ourselves to be human and in fact, to recognize that we have these id impulses. Variety and breaking patterns. The more you can break a pattern, the more you are able to see potentialities within a situation. There's a study with mice where they have... If you have one mice,mouse in the cage, they will have sex with a female mouse you put in the cage like 2 or 3 times and then it gets really tired. And then it goes off to a corner and doesn't want to cuddle. And it does this about 10 minutes - this is called latency period where biologically you can't have sex for a while because it's too tired. And next of course you introduce a new female into the cage, at this point, the mouse goes over and continue this experiment again regardless of the amount of the latency period is there. What this seems to indicate is that our brains, our mammalian brains are actually hardwired for variety, and that's not an appropriate approach to relationships but that's when we recognize that variety is absolutely the spice of life: the more you can change up the patterns you are doing, the more you see potentials in your environment. And the Tetris effect which we already talked about. So now for the greatest power of humor, which I think is really important. I want to talk a little bit and show a little clip, since we just have 6 minutes left. I want to show you a clip that I found to be extremely powerful. I don't think it's a buzz-kill after having a humor lecture. But I think it's really important to see how Jon Stewart dealt with September 11th tragedy afterwards. I think just from the psychological perspective,it's not funny. But watch what's happening to him. Watch his facial expressions,as he is attempting - this almost heroic attempt to bring humor back in the situation. And listen how he describes humor. We'll watch this for 3 minutes, watch 1 minute of Family Guy clip. And then I'll conclude in 1 minute. Wait for it. [VIDEO: JON STEWART "THE DAILY SHOW WITH JON STEWART, Taired on September 20,2001] Jon Stewart:Good evening and welcome to "The Daily Show." We are back. This is our first show since the tragedy in New York City. And there is no other way really to start this show than to ask you at home the question that we've asked the audience here tonight and that we've asked everybody that we know here in New York since September 11th,and that is,"Are you okay?" We pray that you are and that your family is. I'm sorry to do this to you. It's another entertainment show beginning with an overwrought speech of a shaken host. TV is nothing,if not redundant. So,I apologize for that. It's something that unfortunately, we do for ourselves so that we can drain whatever abscess is in our hearts and move onto the business of making you laugh, which we haven't been able to do very effectively lately. Everyone's checked in already,I know we're late. I'm sure we're getting in right under the wire before the cast of "Survivor" offers their insight into what to do in these situations. They said to get back to work. And there were no jobs available for a man in the fetal position under his desk crying,which I gladly would have taken. So I come back here. Tonight's show is obviously not a regular show. We looked through the vaults, we found some clips that we thought might make you smile, which is really what's necessary,I think,right about now. A lot of folks have asked me, "What are you going to do when you get back? What are you going to say?" I mean,Jeez,what a terrible thing to have to do. I don't see it as a burden at all.I see it as a privilege. I just see it as a privilege and everyone here does. Shawn Achor:Am I back on? I think that's such a powerful clip. And you can deal - hear him dealing with the suffering that he is experiencing. And you could see him trying to jump start the humor and recoiling back again. You can hear him talking about those idioms he imposes that he needs to release, and later goes on and talks about the frustration. At the end of the show, he actually just brings out a puppy on the stage and he just allows the puppy to be there to trying to get us, to just return to this point where we can see potentials beyond the tragedy that was actually faced upon them. But I think it's just a remarkable scene to watch. But afterwards you could see the people afterwards were dealing with the tragedy in different ways. I think one of the things that was very interesting from a sociological perspective was Family Guy's response to this, where they are going through this period where we were absolutely terrified of people making terrorist threats against United States and they show this [VIDEO: FAMILY GUY Season 4 Episode 14] (Somewhere in Afghanistan) Osama Bin Laden:This is a message to all American infidels. Prepare to die in a sea of holy fire. You will be punished for your decadent ways on the first day of Radaman. You...(laughing) Wait,wait a minute. Did I just say? What did I say...Radaman? Bla-bla-bla.Ra-ma-dan. Radaman...What is that? Yeah,maybe Dennis Radaman (Rodman) is gonna punish you with his crazy hair. No.What's that? Right.Right.Yeah. Okay,okay,all right,okay,let's go again. Okay.This is a message to all amer... I'm not...I'm not going to be able to do it now.I'm not gonna... Okay,all right,no. No,I-I got to get all the,I got to get all the laughs out. Okay,I got to get all the laughs out. Lalala.Lulululu.Okay,all right. Today,sometime.Stop making that face over there! What are you doing? I can't... He makes that face and it makes me laugh. Okay,you know what? Just turn around.Turn...turn around. I don't care where you look.Just look over there,okay. All right,they're cracking.They're cracking up over there. Okay.Oh,yeah,yeah,look who's snickering over there,Mr. "I can't do a suicide bombing because I'm sick." He had a,he had a note...He had a note from his doctor! [Laugh] Shawn Achor:He said he had a note from his doctor. I'm gonna cut it off there,cause it's getting worse. I just have one minute left. So I just wanna tell you this and I think that the things we've been talking about today, I think that's a remarkable scene. And what you see as we are moving from something that we are terrified of to something that we can begin to laugh at, because we can see the humanity there. We can see ourselves laughing and making mistakes while giving a video taped conference. Now not necessarily on the same topic that he was doing. But the things we talk about today is that humor is like optimism, is a lens through which we view the world that demands a mindfulness to potentials, that increases our health,our social benefits, and our physical benefits, and they can serve as a therapeutic process. I think the humor itself we perceive to be a luxury but I think in times the suffering and conflict and tragedy and recession and depression – I think there's nothing more important than humor. And it's just an honor like Jon Stewart said, to be here with you today. Thank you. [Applause and cheers] 



 Chapter 20: 爱情和自尊


Student:Hi,everyone.My name is Meghan. And we were running a really fun study right after class about mindfulness and vision. It shouldn't take more than 10 to 15 minutes. So if you are interested,we need more than 60 people. So just come up to the front after class. And it won't take a long time.It's really fun.Thank you. (Applause) Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:You know this story about Gertrude Stein. And she was taking philosophy class with William James, right here in the Art. And they had their final exam.And it was spring semester course. And she comes into the exam.And it's a day like today. And the exam is about metaphysics,and the meaning of life. So she opens the exam and writes, "Today is too beautiful a day to take an exam." And she walks out. And you know,as legend has it of course, she gets a straight A in William James' class. Don't use that as an example or an excuse later on in this semester. But I really appreciate you being here today. It is a beautiful day. I was thinking of having the class outside, but I think - maybe we should.Yeah. What we are going to do today is finish up on relationships - we have just a little to go, and then start with our final topic for the course, which is self-esteem. So let me just recap what we did when we discussed relationships. So we talked about how do we - given our natures, how do we attain,how do we sustain lasting love, lasting passion when it seems on the physiological level at least that our natures are not attuned to that approach. And we talked about - when studying the best relationships, the "tip of the stem" - four characteristics, based on the work of David Schnarch and John Gottman. The first one is: relationship is the hard work. It's an illusion to think that the most important thing is finding the right relationship; it is more important to cultivate that one chosen relationship. And just like we would not thrive,succeed at work, if we said,"Well,I just found my dream job," and then put our legs up and relax; similarly we would not thrive in a relationship, if we have the finding mindset - we just need to find it and we will live happily ever after, as we talked about movies and where love begins. The second component of a healthy, lasting and passionate relationship related to the first one is the notion of being known rather than being validated, expressing rather than impressing,being open, revealing our weaknesses as well as our strengths,our desires, our passions,our fears and insecurities. And relationships that do, or partners that do that within a relationship, over time attain higher and higher levels of intimacy,happiness, and they thrive,and they remain - maintain their passion. That's the second component. The third component of a healthy relationship is that there are conflicts there. It is an illusion to believe that the ideal relationship is one that is conflict free that doesn't exist, unless both partners are suppressing serious issues. So there are conflicts in relationships. The challenge is to have more positivity than negativity of course in a relationship, but also to learn how to be in the midst of disagreement, how to have conflict. And finally, the fourth point that we talked about was positive perception; being a benefit finder,and more than that, being a benefit creator. I want to just go back quickly and elaborate on something that I didn't last time about the conflict or conflicts within a relationship. I think the most important essay, article that I read about relationships in general was the article on friendship by Ralph Waldo Emerson, published in a84a. And What Emerson writes about is his ideal friend. Let me quote him. He says,"in a friend, what I am looking for is not a mush of concessions, a person who would agree with everything that I say; rather what I'm looking for is a beautiful enemy, a person who will challenge me,who will push me, who will help me in my apprenticeship to the truth." A beautiful enemy - what a beautiful phrase. A conflict free relationship is where there are no beautiful enemies. A beautiful enemy is a person who loves us, who cares about us enough to challenge us,enough to disagree. And ask yourself what kind of friend, what kind of romantic partner would you like? A yes man or woman? Or a person who would be honest, would have high levels of integrity? What is the ideal friend? What is the ideal partner? You know it's interesting this whole idea of beautiful enemy goes way back it goes back to the most influential text in certainly the Western world,which is the Bible. In Genesis,God sees that man is alone. So he creates a help meet for him,a woman.A helpmeet. What does that phrase mean? This is the King James translation. Well,if you look at it in the Hebrew,original, "helpmeet" is "ezer kenegdoor",or help as opposition. In other words,the helpmeet translation,the meet part,M-E-E-T, is like athletic meet,like a competition. Not helping and they meet together - it's help as opposition. And already then that it was notices the ideal relationship is not one which is all smooth,conflict free; it is one where there is some resistance. And it's this resistance that Gottman talked about in the - or he is talking about in the 2ast century that it is so important, so critical for a healthy relationship,a beautiful enemy, help as opposition,helpmeet, again with a lot of positivity in the relationship as well. So we move on,and just finish up on positive perception. I want to show you an excerpt from one of my favorite movie as I think it's one of the best movies certainly in the realm of psychology ever made,from As Good As it Gets. And here is the part where Holly Hunter tells Jack Nicholson that he'd better give her a compliment and it'd better be a good compliment. Because if it is not,she's getting up and leaving. He just said something very offensive to her. So here is what he has to say to the woman he loves. [VIDEO: CLIP FROM AS GOOD AS IT GETS] OK,now I've got a really great compliment for you,and it's true. I'm so afraid you're about to say something awful. Don't be pessimistic.It's not your style. Okay,here I go: Clearly,a mistake. I've got this,what - ailment? My doctor,a shrink that I used to go to all the time, he says that in fifty or sixty percent of the cases, a pill really helps. I hate pills,very dangerous thing,pills.Hate. I'm using the word "hate" here,about pills.Hate. My compliment is, that night when you came over and told me that you would never... All right,well,you were there,you know what you said. Well,my compliment to you is, the next morning,I started taking the pills. I don't quite get how that's a compliment for me. You make me want to be a better man. That's maybe the best compliment of my life. Well,maybe I overshot a little, because I was aiming at just enough to keep you from walking out. Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar:This is the essence of benefit creating. You make me want to be a better man,a better woman, a better person. You make me want to do the dishes as well. What do we do then? How do we get a relationship or partners in relationships to focus on the positive, to focus on the benefit,to focus on creating more good there? Well we are going back to the very first lesson,very first class- and that is the importance of questions. Remember,questions begin a quest. When we ask certain question, we see certain things that we didn't see before. When we ask certain question, we are also avoiding or not seeing part of reality remember the geometric shapes. It's all you saw - you didn't see colors; you didn't see children on the bus; most of you did not see the clock. And very often in relationships, the questions that we ask after the honey moon is: "What's wrong? What happened? Or what can be improved?" And again, these are important questions with very good intentions. But we just avoid or don't see an important part of reality. So the questions that we need to ask are also the positive questions, the questions that will allow us to see the children on the bus. What am I grateful for in my partner? And it's important to do that always, especially during difficult times, because there's always something to appreciate. And if we don't appreciate that thing,the good depreciates, whether it applying to our country,to our organization, to our relationship as well as to ourselves. Second positive question: What is wonderful about our relationships? What's working? Why are we together in the first place? What do I love about him,her,us? What's good? And when we ask what's good,that's when we perceive it. And when we perceive it,when we appreciate it,it appreciates. It's not a surprise that the statistics are as they are what we saw last time, that most relationships flounder, and even those stay together don't really thrive. No,it's no coincidence. It's because of most of the questions that we asked again,with good intentions. No one has the intentions certainly not going into a relationship to end it or not to thrive in it. But most of the questions that we asked, that we are taught to ask are the ones that focus on the metaphorical geometric shapes. And what we need to do is open up a new quest,no opportunity, see things that are there all along that we simply have overlooked. Again,the quote from Robert M. Pirsig,Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: so often we look for the truth and the truth comes and knocks on our door. And we say to it,"Go away! I'm looking for the truth." Very often it's right in front of us. All we need to do is look. And one way to look,one way to guide our attention toward what is right in front of us is by asking also the positive questions. OK,so what do we have? What do we have so far? In terms of creating a more positive relationship, in terms of being a benefit creator, we want to focus on the potential. And there's one more thing,one more thing that we can do. And that is communicating about positive events. This is taken from the work of Shelly Gable from UCLA who's done to my mind the most important work in the area of positive psychology as it relates to relationships You see there is a lot of research that has been done on negative communication, meaning - what we saw last time - how do you disagree, so rather have a cognitive disagreement rather than an affective or emotional disagreement focus on the substance,focus on the behavior, rather than on the person,on the emotions. So we know that there's a lot of research on organizational behavior and couples counseling research and so on. There has been almost no research done on positive communication between couples, which is in line with most of the research done in psychology. Again,remember,the ratio 21 to 1. Now it's a little bit less, but around 20 to a ratio,positive to negative research. Same when it comes to relationship. No exception,unfortunately. Here comes Shelly Gable and says, "We also need to focus on what is working." And she started to study positive communication about positive events quite. And lo and behold,what she found was quite remarkable. In fact,what she found was that the way couples communicate about positive events is a better predictor of long term success in relationships than how they communicate about negative events. When things go well - better predictor of long term, thriving,passionate relationship than when things do not go well So when I come home and tell my partner, "Oh,I just did this and it was amazing." Or "I've just seen this and it was breath-taking." Or this is what is going on at work. This is what's going on in my personal life. And it's a good thing. How my partner responds predicts a long term success of the relationship. Specifically what Gable is talking about is active constructive responding. What is active constructive responding? What she does is divide it into a 2 by 2 – I'm going to present the 2 by 2 now. This is taken directly from the work of three of my colleagues, Jane Elsner,Barbara Heilman and Amanda Horn from Australia. And here is what they did: put Shelly Gable's work into an understandable clear 2 by 2. So we have on one dimension constructive versus destructive communication; on the other dimension,active versus passive communication. Let's go through the four boxes using an example. My partner comes home from work and she says, "I just got a promotion, the promotion that I've been waiting for for so long. I was just told that I got it." How do I respond? Well,if I'm passive and destructive, I show no interest,diverted attention. I say "Mm hmm",and just move on or talk about, "But did you see we got a new flower in the garden?" Just talk about something unrelated to it - diverted attention. This is passive and destructive.Now,destructive and active. Just got promotion.She comes home. And my response is "Oh no, this means we'll have even less time to spend together! What does this mean about our children now?" Or "what about our holiday that we would go on, we were gonna go on next month? It's not possible now,is it?" Destructive and active. Then there is passive and constructive. This is the most common response. "Oh,that's great.Wonderful.Mm hmm.Wow." And then there is the forth box,the active and constructive, which is "You just prom... That is amazing! Tell me,tell me all about it! So what happened? Did the boss call you into his office and tell you? How did it happen?" Or "We have to celebrate!" Or "let's call our friends and go out! This is amazing! Well done! You've worked so hard for it! I'm so happy for you!" Active constructive. As it turns out,there are consequences, implications to each one of these responses. Unfortunately,this – the active constructive - not very common. Not very common among partners especially after the honey moon phase. So when initially the physiological,the novelty, the excitement is there,it happens more often. But after a while,this goes away, and with it,as Shelly Gable has shown, the success of the relationship in a long term. Now the thing about active constructive responding is that it applies to numerous areas in our lives, not just to romantic relationships- how I communicate with my roommates; how I communicate with my family,parents,children; as a therapist,how I communicate with my clients, because again,most of what psychology has been about is for the therapists to sit there and to be passive constructive - to smile, "Mm hmm.Wonderful.And then what happened?" - As oppose to active constructive and there are consequences. It doesn't mean that it's the right approach in every relationship every time, because there are a few constraints here. For example - it has to be win-win events. Let's say my partner comes from work and says, "Tal,you won't believe it. I just made the most amazing love with my colleague. He was unbelievable! In fact,I never felt this way before." Now active constructive: Do tell more and what happened then? Very difficult to be actively constructive in the situation for most people. Present company included.Very difficult.So it's about win-win. That's not a win-win as far as I can see.It has to be a win-win. In other words,something that both of us or the relationship will benefit from,or at the very least, that the other person is not hurt by it. It has to be genuine. It cannot be fake,because that can't especially once the partner knows you over time it just doesn't work. It has to be genuine, meaning we have to get into the role of our partner, identify with,empathize with, be one with so that we can genuinely respond to it. And if we do genuinely respond to it, and if it is a win-win that's when it generates upward spiral on a few levels. First of all: remember, usually when a positive event happens,what happens? There is a spike up and then affective forecasting  Gilbert's work - shows goes back down again. What effective constructive responding does which is "OK,tell me more. So how was it? Let's celebrate! Give me more details. I wanna know! I'm interested!" What it does to the spike is prolong it. It actually keeps it going for much longer than it would have been just a positive event and then back to the base level. Because we know no matter what promotion we get at work, initially it feels great, no matter what raise initially it feels wonderful, and then it goes back down again to base level. Active constructive responding actually elongates that raising, that improvement in well being. So that is one spiral that it creates - feeling better. The second spiral is an inter-personal spiral, meaning a person who actively constructively responds genuinely enters the same upward spiral, meaning people who do that genuinely become happier as a result of because they experience the event. And they themselves benefit and become happier, again a win-win potentially. And finally,it also does what positive psychology as a whole does which is build positive capacity. Remember positive psychology takes us not just from the zero to the positive, it also helps us better deal with the negative to the zero. Partners who actively constructive respond to one another are building capacity for hard times. In fact one of the most interesting research that were done long time ago was that couples when things went well or they were - wasn't, that language wasn't used - but essentially when they actively constructively responded to one another and supported one another back in the 1920s, once the Great Depression hit, the relationship actually became better; whereas partners who didn't have a good before, the relationship very often dissolved,became worse. In other words,when they built the capacity, it helped them also deal with the hard times such as 1929 and the 1930s. There are no short cuts when it comes to good relationships, to healthy relationships. It is hard work,if you want to succeed, just like it is in every other domain in life. There are no short cuts. However,that doesn't mean that hard work cannot be enjoyable, cannot be pleasurable as well as meaningful. And when that hard work is pleasurable and meaningful, over time that leads to a happier relationship, happier individuals to a win-win togetherness. I want to end but just addressing a point that many of you have raised with me: and that is should we even talk about relationships in the context of pursuit of happiness. And the answer for most people is yes with some discomfort. Yes,because it is the No.1 generator of the ultimate currency; some discomfort because pursuing happiness is by its nature selfish. I mean actually when I am thinking about my happiness, I'm thinking by definition about the self. And shouldn't relationship be about the opposite of selfishness, in other words,about altruism. So let me just say a few words about this. Let's take an example from teaching. Imagine this: imagine that I actually don't like teaching. I don't like to teach. I don't like coming here on Tuesdays and Thursdays. And in fact it's very painful for me. However,I have a deep sense of duty because of my upbringing, because of the philosophies that I read. I have a deep sense of duty to other people. And I know that positive psychology is or has some important messages to give people. And therefore I teach it,not because I like it, but because I think it can potentially help other people. And I wake up in Tuesdays and Thursdays mornings, and I dread going to class. The hour and a half seems like eternity to me. The last thing in the world that I want to do is teach, but I'm driven by my sense of duty,because I'm an altruist, I'm sacrificing myself for what I think is a greater good. Now think of the alternative. Imagine this teacher and then imagine the alternative. And the alternative is me. I love teaching. There is no where else I would rather be right now than here. I love positive psychology. I can't wait to get onto my computer and write the lectures; I can't wait to prepare the powerpoints and work hard on Google image to do so; I can't hardly wait to interact with you. I love being here every Tuesday and Thursday. It is my passion,it is my calling, it is both pleasurable and meaningful to me to spend time with you. And now I ask you which teacher would you rather have? The teacher who is here out of a sense of duty, for altruistic reasons? Or is the person who is here for selfish reasons, because he would rather be here more than any other place? I also ask you which teacher do you think would be a better teacher? And now I ask you,which partner would you rather have, a partner who is with you just because they feel like "Well,that person really needs me," or "I feel sorry for the person," "I don't really like that person,but I'm there just to be there for them,because,out of a sense of duty"? Or would you rather have a person who is with you because you are the most important person in their lives, because they care about so much that the I becomes the We? They care about you as much as they care about themselves. They include you in their circle of the self. Which relationship do you think will thrive more? Now that does not mean that there is no sacrificing in relationships; that does not mean that if my partner is unwell, or needs my help,I would not go out of my way, even if it means giving up something that I really really want to do at that point. Of course,in healthy relationships, when the Is become a We,sacrifices exist, and there is healthy sacrifice. But it's not a relationship that is based fundamentally on the sense of duty or altruistic negation of the self. As Nathaniel Branden says,the more independent we are, the more inter-dependent we can become. That's when the I becomes a We. Again this is something which goes against much of our teachings it's not always easy to accept,but again this class much more than it is about positive psychology, is about reality psychology. And ask yourself what partner would you rather be, what partner would you rather have, what teacher would you rather have - completely analogous. OK.Let's move on now to the very last topic of this class. As I've said many times,I never procrastinate; I just use Google image. I started to think explicitly about the topic about self-esteem when I was a senior,as an undergraduate here. I started to think about it when I noticed another phenomenon. So that was after I switched into philosophy and psychology. I was very happy on my concentration. I was very happy playing in the squash team. Harvard was going great for me. But then I started to notice something that was unclear, didn't make sense to me. And that was the fact that I had low self-esteem or so it seemed at least. And it didn't make sense to me, because I was doing well,I had won prizes, I had received a lot of accolades,a lot of support, whether it's from my roommates,friends,family, lot of pads on the back in athletics,in academics. And yet I had low self-esteem. And it just didn't make any sense to me. There was another thing that baffled me even more. It was as if on some level I was punished by success. What do I mean by that? Every time when I would succeed,or when I did get praise, my self-esteem would increase,would improve. But then very quickly afterwards, it went down,back to its base level and even lower. And in order to raise it back up again, I needed even more praise, even more accolades than I needed before. And the metaphor that kept coming to mind was Sisyphus pushing a rock up on mountain. I would push the rock up the mountain, struggle till the next victory came. And the next victory came and I got the praise, I got the accolades,I got the prize. And my self-esteem was high. I was on top of the mountain. And then this rock would be rolled down again. And I would have to run down and start to push it up again only this time,the hill was even steeper; I would have to struggle even more and I would get up there again and then it would roll back down. Now it wasn't enough to have the accolade,the praise,the amount the quality and the quantity that I had before. I needed even more just to get onto the same mountain, even steeper,even more difficult. And it didn't make sense to me. And then I took a class - senior year ended up being one of my favorite classes for various reasons which I will not go into now,Fairy Tales. I took Fairy Tales and we read Emile, Rousseau's Emile And Maria Tatar talked about wonderful theories and it clicked. I ended up writing my senior thesis, my final paper for that class on self-esteem and that eventually became my dissertation. That's actually what I wrote my PHD on,this topic. So what I want to do today is show with you some of the insights that I got in Fairy Tales as well as other thinkers who have been thinking about this topic of self-esteem, because it is important. It is not for nothing that I end the course with the topic of self-esteem, because it is at the foundation, at the core of so many of the other things that we discussed, whether it's healthy relationships, whether it's happiness in general, whether it's benefit finding or benefit creating, whether it's being known rather than validated. Self-esteem encompasses so many of these ideas. So here is what we are gonna do. First of all,we are going to talk about why is it important? A lot of misunderstanding about what self-esteem is and is not. We are going to talk about some theories that can apply to our lives. And then we'll elaborate on the paradox that I just talked about, that sometimes success actually leads to lower levels of self-esteem. And why does that happen? We'll explain that.And then I'll introduce essentially my dissertation on self-esteem, where I divided the one construct into three distinct components, which are dependence self-esteem self-esteem that is generated by others' praise or approval; independence self-esteem - self-esteem that comes from within, self-esteem that is not contingent on what other people say,self generated; and finally,unconditional self-esteem,or a state of being, where we simply and naturally exist. So I'll talk about these three levels and how we can cultivate independent as well as unconditional self-esteem. And finally we will end by next time by talking about how we can enhance our levels of self-esteem. Now many people when they listen to a lecture on self-esteem, go into evaluation mode and say, "OK,so do I have high self-esteem?" - I meaning you; or "Is my self-esteem higher than the person sitting next to me, or my partner or friend?" And the answer to this question is you can't really know, meaning we can't measure self-esteem "objectively". We don't really where it is in the brain yet we may be able to 10 years from now,20 years from now. But that's not an important question,just like "Am I happy?" or not is not an important question, in fact a misleading question. The question rather,remember,is "How can I become happier?" The same with self-esteem the question is not "Do I have high or low self-esteem?" but rather "How can I enhance my self-esteem?" Because as I argue shortly,there cannot be too much self-esteem. But sometimes people associate too much self-esteem to arrogance, conceit and narcissism. It's not self-esteem. In fact it is the exact opposite of it; it's lack thereof. So having stronger sense of self is a good thing. And the question is "How can I enhance it?" Today my self-esteem is higher than it was when I started thinking about it 15 years ago. And hopefully 15 years or 5 years from now it will be higher than it is today. It is a life-long process. And we'll talk about how that life-long process unfolds and what we can do to expedite it,to intensify it. So first of all: definition of the self-esteem. There are numerous definitions. Let me read you just a few from the main thinkers in the area. So Albert Bandura,Stanford Professor, explains gate to self-esteem, quote in terms of how people evaluate themselves: "Those who express the sense of unworthiness are said to have low self-esteem, or the person who is to express self-pride are said to hold themselves in highest esteem." Another well-known thinker in the area, Germain defines self-esteem as "the judgment and feelings about the self." - Very simply: the judgment and feelings about the self. Coopersmith,one of the most important thinkers in the area: "Self-esteem is an evaluation which individual makes and customarily maintains with regard to himself. It expresses an attitude of approval or disapproval and indicates the extent to which individual believes himself to be capable,significant,successful and worthy." Capable,significant,successful and worthy. "In short,self-esteem is a personal judgment of worthiness that is expressed in the attitudes individual holds toward himself." It's about the attitude that I have toward myself. It's the evaluative part of the self concept. The definition that I will use that I used in my dissertation and I think it captures the best what self-esteem is about is Nathaniel Branden's. Nathaniel Branden, considered by many to be the father of the self-esteem movement in this country if not the world, a therapist and philosopher that has been working in the area for 50 years, defines self-esteem as following: "the disposition to experience oneself as competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and as worthy of happiness." Two components - the feeling,the experience of competence and the feeling and experience of worthiness. Both are important. If we lack one,we very often have low self-esteem. Personal example: I felt very competent at what I was doing, whether it was on the squash court, whether it was in relationships, whether it was academically,and yet my self-esteem was low, because I didn't have the worthiness component now I know of self-esteem. So one or the other are not enough - we need both. Nathaniel Branden continues: "Of all the judgments we pass in our lives, none is as important as the one we pass on ourselves." Why? Because we are constantly with ourselves. It affects every area of our lives when we are alone, when we are with others,when we are at work,when we are doing, when we are working by ourselves,when we are in a team. As Goethe said,"The greatest evil that can befall man is that he should come to think ill of himself." So high self-esteem is important or self-esteem is the sense of self is important. And yet,if we look around us, if we look within us,there's much room for improvement. Some people more than others, but for everyone,there's room for improvement. Here are some of the benefits associated with high self-esteem. First of all,mental health. High levels of resilience,dealing with difficulties this applies to kids who are 6 years old,or to 96 year olds. Throughout our lives,the higher levels of self-esteem, the more resilient we are, the better we are able to deal with anxiety,with depression, with inevitable hardships that arise. Relationships improve. This applies very much as we'll see later to romantic relationships; it applies as much to friendships; it applies as much to family relationships. In the words of Branden: Self concept is destiny. Beliefs or self-fulfilling prophecy if I think of myself,believe in myself,believe that I'm worthy, that I'm capable of a lot, I will,I'm much more likely to succeed. Remember the two predictors John Carlton had for highly successful HBS grads: the first one was that they were always asking questions, always wanting to learn more. The second was they believed in themselves. This was what distinguished,the most successful from the rest. Self concept is destiny. Emotional intelligence,a concept popularized by Daniel Goleman, initially introduced by Salovey from Yale, by Gartner from Harvard. How affective we are with others, our inter-personal intelligence together making emotional intelligence much higher for people with high levels of self-esteem. And finally,the subtotal happiness. In my research as well as other people's research, the correlation between self-esteem and happiness is above .6 – very high correlation,not the only determinant, but certainly one of the major determinants of happiness. On the other hand,low self-esteem is associated with anxiety. I'm not talking about the natural kind of anxiety. If I'm standing on the cliff, and I feel some anxiety looking down,that's natural. That's healthy. Permission to be human - it's important to experience anxiety. It's natural. We all do it,just like the law of gravity. It's part of our physical nature. Anxiety is part of human nature. But anxiety that is unhealthy is one that is for no apparent reason. Again,Branden calls it self-esteem anxiety. Suddenly waking up in the middle of night and feeling anxiety for no apparent reason, or going through life generally with a sense of anx or fear, not really clear,not really sure of what. That is very often the symptom of low self-esteem.Depression. Again we are constantly spending time with ourselves. We are constantly inside of our minds - the I is constantly evaluating the me. And if the evaluation is wanting, if it's low,very often it leads to depression. Psychosomatic symptoms include insomnia,include getting sick, because our immune system is lower - physical immune system is lower and so on. Self concept is destiny. It applies to our top performance; it applies to our worst performance as well. School children who are under achievers very often - that's associated or the result of low self-esteem. Nathaniel Branden calls self-esteem "the immune system of consciousness". The immune system of consciousness when we have high self-esteem, it means we are more resilient psychologically. Remember,a strong immune system does not mean we don't get sick. It means we get sick but less often; and when we do get sick,we recover more promptly. The immune system of consciousness. It means that sickness is the exception; well being is the rule. It means that we are pursuing happiness, rather than constantly running away from unhappiness. These are all signs of high self-esteem versus low self-esteem resilient psychology. Bednar and Peterson, two researchers in the area asked the question, "What is the underlying cause,or is there an underlying cause to most psychological disorders and ailments?" And what they came up with was one construct, and that was self-esteem. Self-esteem is critical. First of all in understanding, in understanding many of the emotional and behavioral problems; and second,in terms of most,not all,but most of the emotional and behavioral problems - self-esteem at the core. Finally it doesn't just apply on the individual level, it also applies on the societal level. It was California Task Force by the government that coined self-esteem as a social vaccine, because what they found was self-esteem was associated, low self-esteem was associated with substance abuse, teen pregnancy,school drop-out rates,violence and crime. And high self-esteem: that the opposite help overcome these social ailments. Again,not a panacea,but helps in many ways. So self-esteem is good. Self-esteem in fact is great,is important. However not all is rosy in self-esteem land. And there are some criticisms, some criticisms by very important thinkers in the area. One of them,the leading one is Roy Baumeister form Florida, equating self-esteem with arrogance and conceit. Because if you are taking a questionnaire and,of narcissism, those who are high on narcissism will also score very high on a self-esteem measure. But here lies the problem. And here in the paper you are reading is how we can debunk at least this criticism - there are others. You see,a person who is a narcissist, who is arrogant,doesn't have high self-esteem. I mean we all know that's common sense. Someone who walks into a room immediately looking like a peacock, showing off,bragging does that person have high self-esteem? Probably not. A person who is humble,who doesn't need constantly show off is usually the person with higher levels of self-esteem. As Rollo May, one of the founders of humanistic psychology movement says, "The person who feels weak becomes a bully, the inferior person a braggart; a flexing of muscles,much talk,cockiness, an endeavor to brazen it out, are symptoms of covert anxiety in a person or a group." It's the exact opposite of self-esteem. Unfortunately today our measures of self-esteem are through questionnaires. And if you ask a narcissist,"Do you have high self-esteem", the answer will of course be yes. However,the questionnaires are not so, most of the questionnaires are not sophisticated enough today to differentiate between true self-esteem and what Nathaniel Branden calls,pseudo self-esteem, the pretense of self-efficacy and self-respect. Soon we'll be able to measure that much more objectively. So that's for narcissism.But there are other criticisms. And that is that self-esteem, high self-esteem leads to unrealistic evaluation and that ultimately hurts people. Let me read you something from Times magazine a report about a certain test that was given to kids 13 year olds in different countries around the world. A standardized math test was given to 13 year olds in 6 countries last year. Koreans did the best; Americans did the worst,coming behind Spain,Ireland,and Canada Now the bad news: besides being shown triangles and equations, the kids were shown the statement "I'm good at mathematics." Americans were No.1 with an impressive 68 percent in agreement. American students may not know their math but they have evidently absorbed the lessons of the newly fashionable self-esteem curriculum, wherein kids are taught to feel good about themselves. Wherein kids are taught to feel good about themselves and I will add "no matter what". Because teachers,many teachers have learned to just give indiscriminant praise - why? Because self-esteem is good,it's a social vaccine and there's a lot of research to back that up. And how do you enhance self-esteem? - By showering people with "Oh,you are terrific! You are wonderful! You are great!" But that,it turns out does not help these students. In fact,in the long run - in the short term,it feels good, but in the long term it actually reduces their motivation to work it makes them unrealistic; and in the long run, it makes them less happy than they potentially could have been. In fact,it boomerangs. Again with good intentions because they want to raise their self-esteem. So how do we salvage self-esteem's self-esteem? By understanding its true nature. First of all,self-esteem is not a product of empty reinforcement Oh you are wonderful;you are terrific; you are great - no matter what. That hurts self-esteem in the long term. Self-esteem has to be distinguished from pseudo self-esteem once again the pretense of self-efficacy and self-respect without the reality. That's not self-esteem; that's narcissism; that's detachment from reality. And as we've been talking about constantly, psychological healthy is a function of connection to reality. So what is self-esteem? Self-esteem is founded in reality, in actual performance,in actual success,in actual practices. It is a product of hard work. OK,do you remember the secret of success from 2 months ago? Optimism,belief in oneself,passion for what one is doing, and finally,hard work. That's secret. Again,someone,something we all know, something that is commonsensical but again,common sense,in Voltaire's words,is not that common. Nathaniel Branden talks about 6 practices that are important for the cultivation of self-esteem: first,integrity. That's your response paper this week to raise levels of awareness about integrity. And integrity means a match between what we say and what we do, the little things and the big things, whether it's "I'll be there at 5 minutes after 5", being there at 5 minutes after 5; saying that "I'm going to work out this week", and actually doing it. Because you see,when we communicate,when we utter words, and we don't follow up on what we say, what we are essentially communicating to ourselves: what I say is not important; it doesn't matter. Whereas I maintain high levels of integrity, when I keep my words - again no one is perfect. No one has perfect integrity as we'll talk about next time. But when I genuinely keep my word, when I follow up on what I say, when I under-promise and over-deliver, that's when I communicate to myself in action remember,self-perception theory - in action, I communicate to myself,"My words matter; I matter." So the practice of integrity. The practice of self-awareness - know thyself. Self-consciousness,as Branden talks about. Purposefulness,having goals,having self-concordant goals, pursuing them,living a life of purpose,of calling, taking responsibility - remember once again no one is coming. It's up to you to make something of your lives. The practice of self-acceptance. Permission to be human on a daily basis. And finally,the practice of self-assertiveness: to say no when it's appropriate; to say yes when that is appropriate; to stand up for what we believe in. These are the practices that over time cultivate self-esteem. And they are also the product of self-esteem as we'll see next time, it's a potential self-reinforcing loop. So this is what self-esteem is.But there are more problems. There are more problems in self-esteem land. Here is another important criticism. You see,a lot of research shows that people with high self-esteem are more generous, are more benevolent toward others. They are generally good.They are nice. A lot research shows that.So that's wonderful,terrific. However, there is also a lot of research that chose the exact opposite that people with high self-esteem display anti-social behavior, whether it's toward people they don't know, especially toward people close to them. It's been associated with aggressive and uncooperative behavior. Levels of hostility associated with high self-esteem in some studies. There are contradictory evidence - doesn't make sense. What's going on in self-esteem land? Hasn't been resolved until recently. Another criticism of self-esteem is what I mentioned, the paradox of self-esteem. You see,the praise that I received as a senior here or as a student here in general was, the praise was based on reality. You know I did well in squash - I got praise for that; I did well academically - I got praise for that. So it was real; it was grounded in reality and yet I still felt like I had low self-esteem. In fact,the more praise I got, in many ways I felt the rock became heavier and  the mountain steeper. And that is not explained by traditional self-esteem research. Bednar and Peterson talk about,they talk about this paradox. And they give examples in their book - this is the first place where I found someone talking about something that I experienced for many years. They talked about the paradox where very often success is associated with low levels of self-esteem. So let me read to you an account of a client that they had they are therapists - who has been very successful. And here he is,writing his journal: "For the past several years,I felt that my life was meaningless. This was an ironic state of affairs considering all I had accomplished. Friends and relatives were always lauding me for my good looks and intelligence. I was the first person on either side of my family to graduate from college, doing so with honors. I had a good job with an important accounting firm. I had plenty of dates. By all outward appearances,my life was very fulfilling. Yet I was miserable and felt increasingly depressed. Six months of psychotherapy had helped me to catch an occasional glimpse of the underlying cause of my unhappiness. It always seemed to involve low self-esteem or my disapproval of myself. Somehow it seems like I really did have a low opinion of myself, but I found that idea confusing, because of all the success in my life." Bednar and Peterson talked,talk about, or introduce there the paradox of self-esteem. That's what they call it. Self-esteem is not associated with success; it's not associated with social status,with money; it's associated with other elements. In fact,as the paradox shows very often, more success leads to more difficulty in this realm. It was this difficulty that I wanted to explore and explored in my research. And this is the formulation that I introduced. The first level of self-esteem was a dependent self-esteem, because what I felt was that self-esteem was a construct, was not enough,was not enough. The contractions there were plenty; the paradox there was not explained by the notion of self-esteem. So I divided self-esteem into three parts based on the work of Lovinger she did her work back in the 60s,based on the work of Maslow, based on the work of Carl Rogers and Nathaniel Branden who had talked about these things. But again,we are not in the majority; most people who talked about self-esteem talked about it as a single construct. The second component: self-esteem that is not contingent on others; and finally the third component essentially does not even need to be called self-esteem simply a sense of self. Let me begin with each one,describing each one. And what I'll do in describing each one is talk about the two components of self-esteem. So essentially what I'll create is a three by two: the three types of self-esteem, each one - how it relates to worthiness,to self-respect; and how it relates to competence the two components of Nathaniel Branden's work. So first of all, in terms of worthiness - in terms of worthiness a person who has high dependent self-esteem is other determined. They enjoy and they need the appraisal. If I do well in a lecture, and I get an external feedback that makes me great; if I don't get great feedback,I feel awful. If I do well on an exams, I get good feedback from my TF or parents,I feel terrific. If someone tells me that they don't like something that I said, I feel awful. My life is constantly affected by what other people think or say, or what I think that they think,or what I think that they mean. Constant evaluation - what do other people think of me? Like a looking glass - looking at other people as it reflects on me and taking their evaluation as the sense of self that I have. People who have high dependent self-esteem are primarily, not only, but primarily motivated by what other people think and say. I will choose a job that will yield the most prestige, the highest social status, that will yield the most accolades and praise. I will choose a partner who I think most other people would approve of and like. Again,the sense of self - contingent on other people; then important decision are made based on other people's approval or disapproval. Second,sense of competence. The second component of self-esteem according to Branden comes through other comparison. How am I doing relative to other people? If I do better than others on the test,I feel great; if others do better than I do, no matter how objectively good or bad it is, what matters is how I am doing relative to others. William James captured this. He said,"I,who have staked my all in psychology, am   when others know more psychology than I." Compared to other people. In fact most psychologists have talked about self-esteem as dependent self-esteem. The work of Cooley,talking about the looking glass metaphor; the work of Mead's,back in 1934, talking about dependent self-esteem how we evaluate ourselves depends on what others say or think, or what we perceive they think or say about us. Most of the thinkers have talked about it. This is best captured; this is what I thought about for the first time in Fairy Tales. This is best captured by the evil Queen: "Mirror,mirror on the wall,who is the fairest of them all?" And as long as the mirror says, "You,my Queen,you are the fairest of them all," she feels great As soon as there is one person who is more fair than thee, immediately she's mortified. The two components of self-esteem here: first of all,the other determined. I'm asking a mirror to evaluate me,not self-determined. So my worthiness comes from an external source. And second,competence - I compare myself to others. Is there anyone who is fairer than I? Dependent self-esteem. Now I've quite literally now caricatured dependent self-esteem. Let me make this very clear. Everyone has some dependent self-esteem. There is no person that I've met or have heard of, who is oblivious to what other people think or say, or to social comparisons. It's part of human nature. Nature to be commanded must be obeyed. If we fight it,it will only intensify, as we've seen numerous examples throughout this semester. Permission to be human and part of being human is that we all have some dependent self... The question is of degree. The important thing to understand about this model, these three levels is that it's an epigenetic model. It is an epigenetic model. And I've no idea what that means.No. Epigenetic is that you first need to get past the first stage in order to get to the second stage; you first need to get past the second stage in order to get to the third stage; that you cannot skip,for example, from stage 1 to stage 3 without going through 2. So everyone experiences dependent self-esteem always. However,after a time if we have a healthy dependence, which is natural,which we all have at an earlier age, later on it becomes independent. And if we are able to cultivate a healthy independent self-esteem we go up to the unconditional self-esteem, to the state of inter-dependence,which is the highest level. But even at the highest level,we still have reminisce. And we will always have elements of the dependent as well as the independent sense of self. When I started doing my research initially, I said,I depicted independent versus dependent I hadn't thought of unconditional at the time as independent good,dependent bad. And I tried to get rid of the dependent self. And what happened - it just simply intensified. It simply got stronger. And I became even more dependent; whereas as soon as I started to accept it remember,I talked about it,permission to be human as soon as I accepted it as part of human nature, it actually lost much of its power over me. Still there as it is for everyone,but the question is of degree. The second level self-esteem,independent self-esteem. As its name suggests, that self-esteem - that's not contingent on other people. So in terms of worthiness, I evaluate myself according to my own standards. I'm self-determined. I determine how good a book that I wrote is. Ultimately - the ultimate arbiter: I do take into consideration and listen to what other people are saying; but at the end of the day I'm the one who decides. Competence,not comparison to others but comparison to oneself. Have I improved? Am I better writer today than I was in the past? Do I know more math today than I knew at the beginning of the semester? Am I able to apply more things from positive psychology than I applied initially? Not compared to my roommate who is applying so much more or so much less, but mostly focused on the self. Once again,people who wrote about this type of self-esteem: Nathaniel Branden,Abraham Maslow,Carl Rogers, and a handful of others. A person who has dependent self-esteem looks for constant approval, is afraid of criticism, very often is associated with perfectionism; whereas the person has independent sense of self looks for criticism. In fact that person constantly looks for "beautiful enemies", people who will challenge him or her, who will help them in their apprenticeship to the truth. Because they want to improve. Their motivation,their primary motivation is "What am I passionate about?" "What do I care about?" "What do I really,really want to do with my life?" They are about pursuing self-concordant goals. A friend of mine,Maltimore Devano, philosopher writes about dependent self-esteem. He says this person answers or is associated with following: we say that we want the truth, what do we mean is that we want to be correct. We say that we want the truth, what do we mean is that we want to be correct. Many people with dependent self-esteem say, "Yes,I'm really pursuing what is right, what is true,what is noble", whereas actually the motivation is protecting the self from criticism,from negative evaluation, from a lower sense of self-esteem that is contingent on others. And once again,in contrast to saying we want the truth meaning we want to be correct, we have the person with independent self-esteem who wants beautiful enemies, who really is an apprentice to the truth. To summarize,initially the first two by two: dependent self-esteem - worthiness,determined by others. I do things for accolades,for praise primarily. And competence - how well I am doing relative to other people; am I better or worse than them? And that determines my self-esteem. In terms of my worthiness,in terms of independent self-esteem, I compare myself to myself - have I improved; am I getting better; am I learning? And my worthiness is determined by my own evaluation. Third level,unconditional self-esteem. In many ways,this is not even self-esteem. Because there is no esteeming involved here. The first component,worthiness,not contingent it's not contingent on other people's evaluations; it's not even contingent on my evaluation. I'm confident enough not to be engaged in evaluations. In terms of competence,it's interdependent. I don't compare myself to how well I am doing relative to others, nor even how well I'm doing relative to myself. I am in a state of being. Interdependence with others - fully comfortable in my own skin. For example, a person writing a book who has high dependent self-esteem is primarily motivated by the accolades, by the praise she or he will get; a person who has high dependent,or, and also by how well that book is doing relative to other books; a person with independent self-esteem writes a book and derives pleasure and satisfaction from writing better than he or she did in the past,from improving, as well as from self-evaluation of the book: this is good. A person who has unconditional self-esteem simply writes a book. Why? Because he or she once, if they have a good idea,a good book to be out there, they derive as much satisfaction, as much pleasure when they see another person's book,who is good They are interdependent. They see themselves as one with others. Once again,everyone has some components of dependence, some components of independence, and some components of unconditional self-esteem. The question is of degree.The model is epigenetic. It takes a lifetime very often to cultivate more and more of the unconditional self. Now one of the criticism is that I face and other writes who have written about unconditional self-esteem is that to be at this stage of "Well,I don't really care or don't care that much about whether I get criticism or evaluation" is that one becomes detached from others,that one does not care. But that is not the case. You see, there are many parallels between unconditional self-esteem and the Buddhist conception of detachment. Let me read to you something. This was written by the Buddhist nun,Thubten Chodron, and I quote: "Ordinarily, we become very upset when we are criticized or insulted. We are angry when our possessions are stolen; we are jealous if someone else gets the promotion we wanted; we are proud of our looks or athletic ability. By contrast,when we reach the state of detachment, our mind becomes clearer and more capable of enjoying things for what they are. We live more in the present,appreciating things as they are now, without fantasies about what they are or will be. We become less ego-sensitive to every action other people do in relation to us." Now at the same time,detachment or unconditional self-esteem which is the parallel that I'm drawing, does not mean being indifferent or rejecting other people's feelings. She continues,"On the contrary,when we are not attached, our relationships with others are harmonious, and in fact,we care more about them. We become more compassionate,more empathetic toward others." Detachment or unconditional self-esteem simply means that we are distancing ourselves or not experiencing as much feelings of jealousy, feelings of envy,constant superiority or inferiority, ongoing comparison to others. It means,on many levels,that we are one with them. This is what the research shows. You know,in fact,you can think about unconditional self-esteem as parallel to going to a movie. When you are going to a movie,what happens? You are empathizing with the characters there. When they go through a hard time, you experience a hard time viscerally; when they thrive and succeed,you thrive and succeed. You are one with them. Why? Because your ego is not threatened you are not threatened by their success; their good looks are not threatening to you; their successes are not a threat to you. Why? Because it's just a movie. Now imagine: if we could have these emotions, feelings with as opposed to against, imagine we could have these emotions in real life, how much more powerful would they be? This is the experience,again of a movie, but so much more powerful because it's real of a person who has high levels of unconditional self-esteem. Cultivating self-esteem,unconditional self-esteem takes time. It's a lifelong process. In many ways,it's parallel to learning how to walk. What happens when we learn how to walk? Initially we can't. After a while we are able to get up,but we need some help; we are dependent on a chair,on our parent to hold us, dependent on other people. Next level - after a while,is independent. We are able to walk by ourselves. But we walk still by thinking about picking up this foot and we are precarious. We are uncertain,but we are independent. Later on we simply and naturally walk. We don't need to think about it constantly. When it comes to a sense of self, initially there is no sense of self when we are born. After a while,the sense of self is dependent on other people, other people's evaluation. Then,after a while, we become independent of what other people say, or we try to assert our independence, but we are constantly evaluating ourselves, constantly comparing ourselves. And then finally,after a while, when we cultivate the strong sense of independence, we simply and naturally exist. That is if nature is allowed to take its course. And that takes time. David Schnarch talks about the average person at the age of 50 becoming known rather than validated strong unconditional self-esteem. Maslow talks about the self-actualized person at the age of 45 or 50. That's unconditional self-esteem. It takes time; it's epigenetic. But the process itself,as we improve and grow, is or can be as enjoyable, as pleasurable as learning how to walk. I'll see you next week. 



 Chapter 21: 自尊与自我实现


Harvard Learning Challenged Association And we are hosting a forum inspired by this class entitled Learning Disabilities Learning Challenges and Positive Psychology A lot of students on campus are registered with learning disabilities and even more have learning challenges which can include a difficulty studying or chronic procrastination Also, a lot of learning disabilities are associated with higher rates of depression and low self-esteem So in this forum, we hope to ask questions like "How can we think positively about learning disabilities?" And "How can we use positive psychology to further explore this field of studying?" All are welcome, whether you have learning challenge or your friend does or you just have a tough time studying or you are just interested Please come and join us It's convenient time one week from now, Tuesday 11:30 at the Adams House Conservatory which is between the entrance and the dining hall of Adams House So mark your calendars It should a good discussion. We hope we'll see you there Thank you so much My name is Holly And I'm the president of an organization on campus called the Leadership Institute at Harvard College And David and I want to just quickly mention what the club does One of our founders actually is one of your TFs-John Deutch over here helped get the group started a few years back So very briefly what the club has-forming programs all aimed up promoting leadership on campus We have a development program where we bring in speakers to work on workshops and interactive seminars that help all of us on really useful skills like running a meeting and negotiation and public speaking They are all free and open to all undergraduates We also enable collaboration between student presidents chief editors captains on campus through luncheons and discussion forums We have an outreach program where we train Harvard undergraduates as instructors for leadership curriculum And we run a one year program on Saturdays with middle school students here at Cambridge And lastly, we are starting a student leadership focused magazine that will be distributed in the future Hey guys, My name is David Tebaldi I'm the leadership development initiative director at the Leadership Institute I'm here to give you a little bit of idea of what's in store for the fall First of all we have the Presidents Forum which is a banquet that brings together the students all across the students leaders from all across the campus to discuss their own experiences with leadership and challenges related to that Afterwards we had a very first magazine coming out which is pretty exciting It'll have a lot of articles about leaders that we hosted the past events and their own experience with leadership We have a lot of other events following that as Holly mentioned before with negotiations and a lot of public speaking events are in store If you'd like to know more you can just google leadership institute at Harvard college and you should be able to find our website Thank you for your time And I hope to see you at some of our events next year So we had a breakfast this morning with the teaching staff of this class It was our final breakfast get-together And I'm a little bit sad So hopefully I'll be happier by the end of the class Today we'll finish up on self-esteem and the next time is the last time we meet for this semester at least And I'll summarize what we have done where we have been and all the places that we will go Just a recap on what we did which is on the slide now There's been a lot of research a lot of talk of how important self-esteem is and it is important There's research suggesting that it's connected to our well being to our success that is inversely related to crime substance abuse unhappiness, anxiety, depression So self-esteem is important - we know that However, not all was well in self-esteem land as we discussed last time Part of the problem is that there is contradictory evidence On the one hand self-esteem is associated with benevolence and generosity and empathy on the other hand high self-esteem has been shown to be associated with hostility lack of cooperation, defensiveness There's also misunderstanding about or about how self-esteem affects performance how it affects happiness and where that comes from The paradox of self-esteem Sometimes we feel like we are doing so well we are getting so many accolades our self-esteem increases only to go back to its base level only worse because now we have to do even more to come back to our base level of self-esteem have to get more accolades more achievements Nothing is enough anymore So there are these contradictory evidence where self-esteem comes from and its consequences And one of the ways to explain it is by drawing on the work of people like Maslow people like Nathaniel Branden people like Carl Rogers, Rollo May. Lovinger to see how we can perhaps break down self-esteem into its components that's what my dissertation did this is what I presented to you in the previous class basically take the ideas of the select field researchers who had been thinking about it people like Robert Kegan across the road from the Ed school thinking about self-esteem more developmentally And I presented the epigenetic model – epigenetic once again, meaning that one level has to be fulfilled or at least partly fulfilled before we can go the next level And the three levels are dependent self-esteem independent self-esteem and unconditional self-esteem Dependent self-esteem - the two components of it first of all person with high dependence needs the accolades of others constantly chooses whether it's a career path or what to do this afternoon based on how much approval that will gain him or her Person with dependent self-esteem when it comes to competence always compares him or herself to others Am I better or am I worse? Superior or inferior? Independent self-esteem is self-esteem that's contingent on the self in terms of how I evaluate myself that's my internal voice that's speaking In terms of how my levels of competence are determined it depends on how much I have improved how much better I've got how much I feel that I have fulfilled my potential That's independent self-esteem not contingent on what other people say or think Unconditional self-esteem is the highest level the level that Maslow would talk about - "the self-actualization" what David Schnarch talks about as "differentiated" or at the level of being known rather than desiring to be validated Unconditional self-esteem is when our self-esteem is high enough we feel good enough about ourselves not to be concerned with evaluations with others or even with self evaluations In terms of comparison we don't compare; we are inter-dependent connected to others So the example that I gave last time is of a book Let's say I publish a book and I have high dependent self-esteem First of all, I write it I publish it so that I can get accolades My primary motivation is external approval My primary motivation is wanting to bring out a book that will be better than the other books out there so relative competence as well as externally other-determined So if I bring in a book and write a book and I have high independent self-esteem I write it and I evaluate it myself "this is good work, " or "this is not so good needs improvement In terms of comparison I compare to myself - "I've improved a lot since I started writing This book is actually better than my previous book My work has become more authentic, more real. " That's independent self-esteem evaluation Unconditional self-esteem the highest level that we know of: I write a book and I'm not concerned about evaluation whether it's good or bad - of course I want to be better and better but that doesn't affect how I feel about myself I simply exist I write the book; I'm in a state of flow experiencing the experience In terms of whether it's better than others or better than I've written it doesn't matter What I'm happy about what makes me happy is bringing a good book into existence And I would be as happy if someone else wrote the book I'd be as happy or happier that someone else wrote a better book that can help others more Important thing to understand about this model the three levels is that we all have all three basically from a very young age It's not that the Dalai Lama or Mother Teresa or Nelson Mandela or Margaret Mead that people who we know have been are self-actualized it's not that they don't care about what other people say However, they are mostly most of their lives, most of the time self-determined - do what they believe in feel a sense of connection to others want to make the world a better place But it's not that they don't care it's not that they don't evaluate themselves relative to themselves or relative to others That's part of human nature My error, when I started with this research was that I said to myself "OK,I just want to have independent and later when I understood what unconditional self-esteem I said, "Wel, I want to have unconditional self-esteem." And I situated those two on the good side and dependent self-esteem, bad And what then happened? It only intensified my dependency on others Because when we fight nature nature fights back and we can't win You know, it's like going back to the second class If I say to myself "Tal, don't be nervou, Don't be nervo, Don't be anxiou." What happens? The pink elephants begin to come out And I become even more anxious and more nervous whereas I accept it is part of my nature Let it be – permission to be human It loses a lot of its vitality and force and control Cause I can say "OK. Yes, I care that this person didn't like my book didn't like my class And I accepted it, It's nature, It hurts me I would much rather that they all like it But I can move on then, and said "OK,what would the most authentic life that I can lead? How can I the teacher who is known as opposed to constantly concerned about validation?" Active acceptance. Revisited Accepting my nature and then deciding what would the most appropriate action to take One of the, my role models is Warren Bennis Warren Bennis has done a lot of research and a lot of speaking and a lot of work in the area of leadership He teaches audit in University of Southern California was before he was at Harvard and MIT And he came to Harvard Business School for three years and the first year - as a visiting professor The first year I took his class which was an extraordinary experience The second year when he taught it I was his teaching assistant And I used to work a lot with him and interact with him and was constantly amazed by Warren Warren, at the time was 80 years old - now he's 83 would walk into the room and the room would light up It was his smile, his posture, his openness his expressiveness was there about his interacting with people and making the other person just by being there feel better about themselves And he was confident and strong and what I would classify as self-actualized as a person with very high unconditional self-esteem And we became very close and he helped me in many areas most of all just by being himself - me observing him learning from him, assimilating what he had to give the world and what he was giving day in and day out to thousands and millions of people who have read his books who have been to his lectures who've had the privilege of interacting with him And one day after a couple of years I was his TA and we were close I said to him "Warren, how is it that you are like this?" How is it that you are like this? And his response was put his hand on my shoulder looked at me with his calm accepting, giving smile, and said "Tal. I wasn't always like this" And that's where he left it And this is what I needed to hear Because in his response where two very important - many more but two very important messages the first message is that it evolves it takes time; you don't become third level self-actualized individual overnight at the age of 20 or even at the age of 40 It takes time; it takes work; it takes self-awareness it takes falling down and getting up learning to fail then learning from that failure It takes learning to accept oneself it takes being open and being vulnerable and making mistakes it takes being human, fully human I was not always like this The second message that I got from this is that Warren was genuine He was real. He didn't say to me "Oh Tal, stop Not really. Come on. Thank you" But no He was real. He knows his worth He's confident There was no false modesty involved and it reminded me that when I started to think about self-esteem and the true meaning of self-esteem as you read in Branden's work by the way, he and Nathaniel Branden are good friends When I started reading Branden and when I realized what real self-esteem was about I realized that people with high levels of self-esteem are modest You don't have the need to show off You know, arrogance narcissism is the exact opposite of self-esteem hubris, foolish pride is the exact opposite of what a true sense of self is So when I understood that one of my important goals was to become more importantly to be - modest And it was incredibly important for me that everyone knows how modest I was You know. Francis Bacon, the British philosopher said that modesty is but another form of ostentation And for me that certainly was the case it's not always the case I think Warren Bennis is modest and truly modest I think Nelson Mandela when he is being modest, he really is modest But the question is: how do you get to that level of modesty? And you get to this level of modesty by being authentic by being real by going through the process And the process in many ways as we described last time is like learning how to walk Initially when we are born we have no idea what walking even is Then later on we are able to get up but we need support either of another person or something to lean on And we take our first precarious steps around a desk, for example And after a while we can walk without help But we are still thinking about every step and we fall down and get up again learn to fail or fail to learn And then we continue walking and we are very conscious of how we pick up this leg When you watch a baby learn how to walk it's fascinating So many things have come together for this simple seemingly simple action And then after a while the baby becomes more confident And she begins to run And she no longer has to think about walking or running because then she naturally she simply walks Same with the sense of self: initially we have no sense of self there's no differentiation between the "me" and the mom or other objects in the world Gradually, we develop a sense of self but that sense of self is completely dependent physically as well as psychologically we are dependent on our parents significant adults older sibling And then after a while that usually happens when we are teenagers we begin to assert our independence That's when we begin to desire want to hear our own voice want to make our own voice heard That's the difficult teenage years difficult for the teenager difficult for the parent But it's natural It's part of evolution And we need our boundaries at that time And at the same time we need to sometimes break boundaries We need to test reality Assert ourselves And then over time when we do that over time we begin a new process simultaneously And that is the process of real differentiation where the independent self becomes so strong that we are able to connect to others as well Once again, going back to relationship Nathaniel Branden: the more independent we become the more interdependent we can be And then we evolve and that takes a long time And if we have missed out on the dependent side – for example if we didn't get any accolades and any praise and unconditional self-regard in the words of Carl Rogers when we are younger then we have that need - remember the model of epigeneti we can't jump over a stage And very often it would take a therapist to provide us with unconditional self-regard so that we can go to the next level Or we need a relationship or relationships where we cultivate unconditional self-regard so that we can go to the next stage And if we were when we were teenagers constantly told to be quiet to behave, prevented from asserting ourselves being ourselves then we are unlikely to get to the next level in a smooth way And then very often later on in life we need to do that first to assert ourselves like teenagers did or do so that we can make it to the next level But regardless this is not a smooth transition Why? Because there are no perfect parents because there is no perfect environment there are no perfect teachers and for us to evolve naturally and smoothly through the stages it's just unrealistic doesn't exis, not here on earth And then we evolve over time through the hardships through the difficulties making mistakes, falling getting up again gradually the interdependent self the unconditional self-esteem emerges And we feel much more comfortable in our skin Maslow said that he didn't find people below the age of 45 who were self-actualized And even those self-actualized people still have remnants of independent as well as dependent self-esteem It never really goes away But it's only weaker now It's not dominant; it's not what they are about the next accolade, the next praise being devastated when someone doesn't like them being devastated when they are not the best They accept it. They say "O, it would be nice to win this." And then they move on And they ask "How can I make the world better place? How can I be a conduit for positive emotions?" Maslow didn't find anyone below the age of 45 Schnarch talks about how it's in the 50s and 60s that the individuals become differentiated and where the highest potential for passion is within a relationship It takes time I was not always this way it was not always like this as Bennis pointed out very important lesson Many people ask about the universal nature of this theory because you know independence is very much or individualism is very much a Western construct or American, West European construct You know you go to Africa - very differen the concept of we of a group is much more central to who they are You go to Asia the concept of the we, collectivism the group is much more central to who they are So what about other areas? Is this a Western centric theory? And the answer is "not necessarily" You see, if our goal is to become fully actualized or to strive toward that to be in the process of becoming a person in the words of Rogers then the final that final stage of interdependence is same in all cultures All cultures value it They value it just the same the process may look different for a person in Japan and for a person in United States for a person in Israel or Egypt compared to a person living in Zimbabwe The process may look different However, it will have many similarities Remember I talked about the Dalai Lama on the third class or so who said that one of the problems he sees in Western psychology is that we focus too much on cultural differences And again, Dalai Lama is very extremely sensitive culturally But he says there are differences; we need to study them At the same time we need to study even more so the similarities that which brings us together that unites us And there are a lot of similarities And hopefully soon there'll be more and more research on this topic applying it to different cultures and twigging and seeing how it relates outside the Western tradition Cause most of the research that I'll mention in a minute has been done in United States some of them in UK Will be interesting to see what the process looks like elsewhere But at its core, at its core it is much more similar than different Why is it important to be independent? Why is it that we should strive for this evolution? Shouldn't we stay of the conformity dependence level? Now I will argue and the research shows as well as historical incidents show that it is important to cultivate independence as a way to cultivate interdependence First of all because of moral behavior if you think about the worst atrocities throughout history the worst atrocities throughout history were conducted by people conforming by obedience to authority and by racist or ethnocentric beliefs and behaviors Now look at these three things that I just obedience to authority - a person with high dependence self-esteem is much more likely to be obedient to an authority figure Why? Because he or she seeks accolades they seek approval They don't feel strong enough themselves They need that very charismatic leader to tell them "Oh,you are fine, You are OK, You are superior" Because that's where their sense of self is dependent on because we are much more likely to conform to what a group is doing if we need constantly the accolades of that group You think about the Milgram experiment you think about Asch experiments those of you who've taken Psych 15,or Psych 1 You think about racism. What is racism? Racism is about comparison and wanting to assert superiority on the base of some external factor In other words I'm not good enough as I am You know, to prove how good I am I have to compare myself to another whether I choose you know, place of residence whether I choose upbringing whether I choose the color of the skin It's about relative competence Whereas people who are independent don't have the need or have less of that need for comparison as well as less of that need to conform They are true to principles their own principles Now this is not a panacea This is not always good because I'm sure there are also Nazis who are true to their principles But as I'll show later in research those who are true to their principles are more likely to follow their heart And unless their heart is damaged I mean that in a true sense of the word, damaged they will seek to do good They will seek to help Their levels of empathy will increase And this is the paradox of empathy It's actually when we cultivate empathy or rather when we cultivate for lack of a better term and I actually don't want to use a new term When we cultivate self-love when we cultivate self-esteem that's when we are most likely to be empathic and to love others Look at the golden rule love your neighbors as you love yourself What does that what is the prerequisite of loving your neighbor? The self You are the standard we are the standard of how we evaluate others because our behavior toward others very often not always very often - mirrors our behavior toward ourselves So people cultivating independent sense of self who have a strong self identity are better able to identify with others In addition to moral behavior better cognitive performance - you see people who have a strong dependent self-esteem or are primarily driven by what other people say will follow the rule that has already been taken They will, can potentially be great mechanics because they'll work hard for these accolade and that's a good thing, to work hard But they'll basically remain within the box whereas the people who have a stronger sense of independent self-esteem think outside the box choose the path that hasn't already been taken That doesn't mean that they can't walk in the pat that has been taken if that is what they really really want to do with their lives So you know it's just as much sign of dependence when we say "Wel,I am gonna do the opposite of what everyone else does." because I'm still dependent on what everyone else does So that's not independent self-esteem That's just more dependence But if I sit down and I say "Ok, what do I really, really want to do with my life?" And I think about it truly Put myself in a world that no one would know what I was doing I'm much more likely to identify that thing which is my passion my core, my calling - be it in investment banking or work in the UniLu It doesn't matter The question is "What is the source of that" Person with independent self-esteem is committed to continuous learning Remember the John Carlton's study – what differentiated the HBS grads the extraordinary ones from the rest was that, they were always asking questions They always wanted to learn more They didn't get out of – you know graduate from college or graduate from business school or from a PHD program or wherever it is, and say "OK,I know enough" Or "Now I'm a manager; now I'm the leader I'll tell people how they should… This is the amazing thing about Warren Bennis He's always asking questions He's always interested in what people are doing He's always learning Happiness, levels of happiness are higher and I'll show you the research in a minute when we experience a sense of independent self-esteem We are much calmer when we don't constantly have to prove ourselves to others It is enervating to constantly be on the guard Is this person gonna like me? How do I gain their validation? We are much calmer when we say "Let me express myself And yes it may hurt me It will hurt me, if they don't like me That's OK. I'm resilient I'm strong, I can deal." Much calmer - sense of being when we express rather than constantly try to impress Imagine how much lighter our lives can be if, when we are here or when we walk out of here we experience the sense of being more and more of the time again, not perfectly because that's not human but more and more of the time to just be, to exist to celebrate our existence and the existence as a whole Let me share with you just some of the research There hasn't been a lot And I wanna share with you just some of the work that I did for as part of my PHD and a little bit beyond The first research that was really able to deal with the paradox of self-esteem of how some people get so much accolade and yet their self-esteem decreases or how some people have high self-esteem or hostile versus others that are generous and benevolent The first research that was done was by Kernis who back in 1995 came up with the concept of self-esteem stability And he said what actually can predict whether a person will be hostile or generous whether their self-esteem over time will be high or whether it will lower over time is not a self-esteem per se but rather is the stability of their self-esteem And what he showed - he followed people you know, for example, for a week or two weeks and he would measure their state rather than trait their state self-esteem at the time So there were certain people who if this is the self-esteem level and this is time There were people whose self-esteem at this point was here and then the next day here, and then here and then here again, and then here and here and here and he measured, let's sa, ten times And what he wanted to see to measure - the standard deviation of the spread How close was it? How stable was it? So this would be someone with maybe on average high self-esteem but with a lot of fluctuations Other people were more like this Again, ups and downs but sometimes large fluctuations but overall pretty stable Same level of self-esteem trait self-esteem but state self-esteem fluctuated far less And what he showed was that it was the stability rather than self-esteem per se that determined whether or not a person would be hostile or benevolent People with unstable self-esteem were more likely to be hostile People with more stable self-esteem were more likely to be generous and benevolent resolving a lot of the contradictions misunderstanding in the literature When I saw this, I had a eureka personal eureka experience And I said "This is it! He's onto something." And what I did in my master's thesis back in 2000 was created a questionnaire a very simple questionnaire that measured dependent versus independent self-esteem And I measured students mostly Harvard students - I did also cross sectional in Singapore I was spending a lot of time there at the time - similar results Asia and here at least in Singapore and in United States And what I found was that dependent self-esteem was associated with instability independent self-esteem was associated with stability In other words I came up with one measure that instead measuring ten times whether that kind of self-esteem would lead to hostility anxiety, versus calmness or generosity I used just one measure And that's what I found very high correlation between dependent self-esteem and self-esteem instability positive correlation and a positive correlation between independent self-esteem and self-esteem stability Then some of my students at the time did research on it For example, Mellisa Christino who you'll meet at least some of her writing later on in this class did her senior thesis as an undergrad here on showing the connection between independent self-esteem and happiness and independent self-esteem and flow Those who had high independent self-esteem were most likely to experience flow on athletic field which is where her research was - Harvard athletics also connected to higher levels of happiness Then my dissertation was trying to pin down these exact characteristics that were problematic in self-esteem literature Remember, high self-esteem means narcissism How do you differentiate? Well, what I found in the dissertation was that narcissism is connected actually to high dependent self-esteem There was no correlation between independent self-esteem and narcissism When it comes to generosity this was probably the most surprising result of the study people with independent self-esteem were actually more generous and benevolent both in terms of self report and in terms of their actual behavior toward other people - a strong sense of self Remember, love your neighbor as you love yourself Do not do unto others which you would not have done to yourself And when you have a high standard for the self there is a high standard for the other And that usually happens automatically because we mirror our behavior toward the "I" And then hostility no correlation between hostility and self-esteem per se because some people have with high self-esteem, have high levels of hostility some people with high self-esteem have low levels of hostility and more generosity But dependent and independent self-esteem predicted hostility Those with high self-esteem that was mostly dependent were more likely, not always, not every person but on average, were more likely to display hostility those people with high self-esteem that is mostly independent were much more open, cooperative and generous Perfectionism - two of my students at that time Tiffany Ignaczyk and Kate Richey who is a TF in this class did fantastic work showing the connection between perfectionism and self-esteem - how people with high independent self-esteem were less likely to be perfectionistic Why? Because it is about self expression it's about constantly learning and growing And part of learning and growing is falling down and getting up again no other way to learn Whereas dependent self-esteem were more concerned the words of Mihnea Moldoveanu that I quoted last time we say we want the truth what we mean is that we want to be correct more dependent on how they perceived more perfectionistic, more afraid of failure So this applies also - and we talked about before but I just want to point it out again - to relationships That's work on the topic David Schnarch again where we talked about how do we get to the stage of being known rather than being validated And that doesn't mean that at the age of 70 or 80 when we are fully evolved we don't enjoy or need at times the validation of our partner We do But at the same time we are much more about self expression Here is what David Schnarch has to say "Differentiation is your ability to maintain your sense of self when you are emotionally and/or physically close to others especially as they become increasingly important to you Differentiation permits you to maintain your own course when lovers, friends and family pressure you to agree and conform Well-differentiated people can agree without feeling like they're 'losing themselvs' and can disagree without feeling alienated and embittered." This is what being known is all about being yourself, being differentiated This is what independent self-esteem is this is what ultimately interdependence is all about easier said than done But again it's very helpful to have that as a heuristic the back of your mind to notice that it's happening Because at the age of 20 you are also experiencing moments of interdependence real connection with a friend, family just walking in the yard and admiring the beauty of it all and  these are precious moments that over time we can have more and more of if we follow the natural path the natural evolution Going back to the analogy of walking I'm very often when - we know these you know stories through history people were put in you know shoes that were too small for them or were not allowed to try and walk such as very often the case was in Romanian under Ceausescu where people were not allowed to develop naturally when our natural development is hindered and it can be hindered we don't evolve as we can So the question is also on the psychological level how can we evolve as we can? And some of the tools that you learned throughout the semester whether it is the cognitive tool of learning the permission to be human or the tools that you can actually apply such as keeping a journal such as exercising such as doing the gratitude exercise such as meditating, or doing yoga All these things as you'll see are ways of becoming more self-actualized of expediting the process And when we expedite the process it means that right now right here we are able to experience that sense of being much more often we don't need to wait until we are 50 or 60 or 70 We can on that healthy journey way before that So how do we do it? How do we do it? Let me go back to the model we talked about when we discussed change And we talked about the ABC of change Affect. Behavior, and Cognition And I mentioned that the most important approach to change the most effective approach to change is the B, the Behavior And I introduced this model of how attitudes change behavior and in turn how behavior changes attitudes Remember self-perception theory if you want to improve in one area in our lives the best thing to do is to behave as we would If I want high self-esteem I need to behave like a person with high self-esteem behaves Why? Because self-esteem is simply an attitude it's the attitude I have toward the self it's the I evaluating the me And to enhance that attitude I need to engage - or the most effective way not the only way but the most effective way is to engage in behavior of a person with high self-esteem which is why it's so important to have role models And I'm saying that in plural It's important to have role models people we can look up to and say "I want to have that chara... No. I want to have the calm and the acceptance and the generosity of spirit that Warren Bennis has I want to have the passion for teaching that Marva Collins displays integrate that aggregates of role models so that we can behave and over time achieve that attitude that we are looking for So let me go over a few of them of how to enhance self-esteem We've discussed most so this is a good summary of some of the things that we went through First, people with high independent self-esteem generally as we saw before from the research Melissa Christino's research and others' are generally calmer So independent self-esteem is the attitude calm is the behavior which also means that people who behave calmly will increase over time their independent self-esteem And we see that in related research on meditation for example on mindfulness as we induce more of it our self-esteem and it is the independent part of self-esteem because they are not about accolades "Oh I meditated so well today Everyone, clap." It's not about that It's about inducing calm being centered, being myself Or physical exercise physical exercise induces calm because it releases certain enzyme certain chemicals in the body so that over time it actually strengthens our independent self-esteem indirectly because behavior experiencing the calm leads to a changing attitude Imagine that a spell of anonymity has been cast on you From now on and for the rest of your life no one will know what you are doing no one but you will know how good you are how generous you are how benevolent you are No one but you will know how wealthy and powerful and important you are You and you alone will know about all your accomplishments you and you alone will know about how ethical moral and wonderful you are In such a world where a spell of anonymity has been cast on you what would you do? Familiar, anyone? What would you do? Now as I mentioned in the response paper this does not mean that this is what I need to do with my life - what I would do in this anonymous world What it is saying though is in such world or doing this exercise it can help us hone in on what we would do regardless of the accolades and praise and prestige I do this exercise regularly - as you know no exercise in this class that I assign to you is foreign to me I do them all I'm going through this class just as you are And I do this class, this regularly And for example, when I did it as a graduate student here my response was that in such a world I actually would not get a PHD I would not get a PHD because it wasn't that pleasurable to me - very meaningful but less pleasurable to me I wasn't that good at it didn't feel like I was thriving But I also said to myself that in our world not in that world where no one would know what I was doing but in a world where people know what I'm doing I would need a PHD in order to teach at a university which is why I continued and eventually got my PHD I did this exercise just before I graduated And I was thinking about different areas to pursue And I said, what would I do in such a world where no one would know what I was doing? And the answer to that was I would teach The answer to that was I would not do research That was very clear And that's when I decided to get out of the tenure track option even though there was a lot of pressure on me from the outside from people who cared about me And they said "Look, two or three articles and you'll get into a great place, and the tenure track You can do it. You know your PHD, can be published." But I knew that wasn't the life that I wanted to lead Is there a price for it? Yes I mean one of the price is that, you know this is my second last class at Harvard But what kind of world what kind of life did I want for myself And that exercise helped me hone on that What are your passions? What you really really want to do with your life? Where do you see yourself 10 years from now or 20 years from now? What's really important for you? What's important for you that you would do regardless of other people's approval nods, accolades or cheering or disapproval, or criticism? What would you do in such a world? It's an important question to ask People who experience who have high independent self-esteem pursue their passions people who pursue their passions enjoy higher levels of self-esteem People who enjoy a lot of flow their independent self-esteem will increase as well Ask yourself: where do you experience flow? Where do you lose yourself? Is it when you read? Is it over dinner when you are sitting next to your block mates? Is it when you write? Is it when you are standing in front of a class speak in an after school program? When do you experience it? When did you experience it in the past? Ask yourself Because that very often is the best predictor of future flow What kind of life do you want to lead? What do you really, really want to do? People with high independent self-esteem put themselves on the line They cope, they stretch themselves constantly Because they are always about learning and growing improving making more of difference touching more people And people who cope remember, self perception theory people who cope over time will enjoy higher levels of independent self-esteem Even if they fall while doing it even if she says no four times they get up again and they get stronger And their independent self-esteem strengthens over time The graph doesn't look just like this the ups and downs with spikes It looks with same ups and downs but with an upward trajectory of well being happiness and self-esteem Humble behavior - genuine humble behavior One of my favorite texts and I think one of the most important texts in my tradition Pirkei Avos, the Chapter of the Fathers There's a sentence there a proverb  that I've been reading over and over and over again and never could understand until I heard an interpretation of a well-known Rabbi Rabbi Mitchell Wohlberg about this interpretation And here is the sentence I'm translating: those who chase after honor honor will run away from them those who run away from honor honor will chase them Let me repeat: those who run after who chase honor honor will run away from them those who run away from honor honor will chase them And it didn't make sense to me until I put it in the context the result of the lecture by Rabbi Wohlberg of self eteem Honor is essentially honoring the self believing in one self And if I'm constantly about chasing honor the next accolade, the next prize the next approval, the next validation then honor will run away from me And then I'll have to push that stone up steeper incline the next time And I continue to chase that honor and I get there and then the rock rolls back down again And Sisyphus continues on and on with the steep becoming... with the incline becoming steeper Whereas if I run away from honor - behave humbly over time honor, true honor internally generated honor will chase me Behavior can change attitude It takes time And again at the beginning as I mentioned to you before I wanted to be modest and I wanted everyone to know how modest I was and how humble I was And I understood that well that's not genuine but I can still behave and act in a humble way And over time it becomes more and more part of who we are Behavior changing attitude doesn't happen overnight And again it doesn't mean that a person at 80 who is evolved and actualized does not look for honor at all does not feel good when he or she is praised That's natural - part of who we are This is an important one We've talked about it a lot in the class about simplifying The... I've often wondered the why is it that in a county like the United States such an individualistic country - self-reliance most of you read it in high school by Emerson so much about individualism and the self why is it that there's such high levels of conformity? Why is it that so many people go on the path that has been already taken and prescribed by others? That doesn't mean that everyone who goes on the path conforms Again, you can be highly conforming choosing to work as a consultant or choosing to be a volunteer at a homeless shelter You can be equally other determined or equally self determined It's not about choosing a particular path But why did I why do we see so many people who conform? And I think it's because of their right raise I think it's because people in the United States Western world in general do not take enough time to reflect and to think about those questions such as "what do I reall, really want to do with my life? to ask questions such as "what would I do in a world where no one would know what I was doing?" to go through the three question process - the meaning "what is meaningful?"; "what is pleasurable?" "what do I enjoy?"; and "what am I good at?" "What are my strengths?" To go through these questions and to ask those important questions because when we take a step back and take the time that's when we become ourselve that's when we identify the path that is right for me Let me illustrate this by showing you a stage model And this is based on the work of Daniel Gilbert indirectly refers to it his work on cognitive dizziness And what he and others have shown is that people behave very differently when they are cognitively busy when they are in a hurry versus when they have time they can focus on whatever it is that they are doing So also connected to Tim Kasser's work on time affluence So the first stage is the stage where we don't have time we are in a hurry; we are rushed our reaction is automatic This is the part where we conform This is time when we conform to the group as in the Asch experiments this is when we conform to the man with a white coat telling us the experiment must go on And we push the button and shock an innocent victim This is where conformity to obedience conformity to a group is when we don't have time when we are busy when we don't really think about what it is that we want to do and can do This is our dependent self - stage one We very often at this moment can reach stage two don't need to wait a long time At this moment, if we take the time because when we take the time that's when we engage in deliberate reflection combining reflection and action where we think about what we do we think about what we think We take our time This is where the self is autonomous this is where the independent self-esteem emerges when we have the time That's where we are much less likely to conform that's when we are cultivating and expressing our independent core self Think of the, of the following experiment It cannot be done today unfortune... Well I mean it's not unfortunate but it cannot be done today And that is to retry the Milgram experiment with one difference Imagine this - some of you know the Milgram experiment We've spoken about it here You are sitting on the chair with your hand on the buttons Or in front of you, you have the panel And you go up to sixty volts And there's no real reaction from the other person, the learner And you go up to 75 volts a 15 volt increment And you get to 120 volts and the confederate whom you think is really being shocked says "Ouch! That hurts" And you go and you look up at the person with the white coat and he says to you "the experiment must go on" And you go up and up; and the person is screaming and telling you he has a heart condition And you look up at the experimenter who looks like this And he tells you - I never noticed him until now I'm glad I've never noticed him He says to you "the experiment must go on" And you go on And they start to whimper and say "I have a heart condition, Get me out of here!" And you look up And the experimenter says "no answer is wrong answer Raise the voltage. The experiment must go on." Now 63 percent of participants went above 350 volt which is beyond the level where the person was not even heard anymore They continue to shock them until the point of xxx beyond the very dangerous because he told them that the experiment must go on Now imagine the same experiment with a slight difference You give them 75 volts and they say "Ouch! That hurts" And then the experimenter tells you "The experiment must go on Why don't you come back in 15 minutes" And you go out for 15 minutes And you come back again And it's now at 90 And you go up - let's say - you go up to 120 And 120, the person is screaming "Get me out of here! You have no right to keep me here!" And you look up at the experimenter and the experimenter says "The experiment must go on But why don't you take a 15 minute break?" What do you think would happen if people were given 15 minute breaks between shocks? Do you think 63 percent would go to extremely dangerous and beyond? Probably not, because during these 15 minutes we are no longer in a hot state but rather in a cold state the words of George Loewenstein When they are in a cold state, they'll think "Am I out of my mind? What am I doing here?" And they will go and call the police as opposed to going back 15 minutes later and "Ok, now I'm willing to kill them" which is essentially what they presumably did in that experiment But when they didn't have those 15 minutes when it was "the experiment must go on" "the experiment must go on" it went on And they paid a price of losing themselves And this is what happens to us in modern life not with such dire consequences potentially could have been with Milgram and we are not doing immoral things as the cases with obedience to authority But we are hurting ourselves very often because we are running around and we are conforming and we are doing what they think we should do we are doing what that voice or voices are telling us to do We are not doing what we are meant to be doing You know what I think the most important part of this class? Its sections and response papers This is not out of modesty yes, I want you to think that I'm modest but that's not why I'm why I'm saying it It's because that is when you get the time to reflect to talk about it with your teaching fellows with your fellow students to think about it You are "forced" to take a timeout It's when you sit down and write those response papers about these questions that I mentioned it's when your real autonomous shining self comes ou it's when you talk to your friends about this class or your block mates in the dining hall when you take the time to share with your parents That's when it is happening Finally, integrity Nathaniel Branden Nathaniel Branden did this with many of his clients - he's a therapist where he would bring them in and tell them "Ok, for the next week, stop No lies, Be fully integrated; be fully honest" And what he found was when he applies to especially people who would lie a little bit more that enhanced their self esteem I remember back in 1996 - I think it was 96 or 97 when the whole Clinton impeachment trial was going on On CNN they brought on DePaulo she is a professor at University of Virginia and she does research on lying And they interviewed her and it was the first time that I was exposed to her work And she said on CNN that her research shows that basically everyone lies - many times little lies intended to impress others many times, bigger lies And what she found was that people lie in average 3 times a day And when I heard it I scoffed, I said "Wel, maybe other people lie three times a day I don't lie" And let me explain to you why I don't lie And this is true Because I wrote my senior thesis in college on the concept of honesty pays I was a joint philosophy and psychology concentrator was interested in ethics, self esteem, motivation And what I showed based on research based on philosophical works by Aristotle, by Adam Smith that we pay a high psychological and emotional price whenever we lie whenever we cheat whenever we are dishonest And then I said to myself "But let me try DePaulo's exercise." What she does is have people evaluate their conversations for honest or dishonest content right after it finishes so when it's still fresh in their mind what they talked about So they keep a journal which is completely anonymous So I said "But I'm gonna do , even though I don't lie" because I know the consequences of lying because I wrote my thesis on it I'm an expert on honesty I said I'll still do it Cause I like to try experiments As it happens I went on a date that night someone whom I never met before - was not Arianna someone that was whom my mom set me up with My mom and her mom talked together in the same school And I heard wonderful things about her I was very excited and became even more excited when we met And we were sitting down and having a lovely dinner and talking And she is an economist very successful economist And she asked me what I was doing and I told her that I was a psychologist And I was really impressing her with all my knowledge of psychology And she said:"You know I'm also interested in psychology." And I said:"This is going really well" To myself, not to her I learned not to say those things on earlier dates So we were sitting down and - you know learn to fail So we were sitting down and talking Then she said "Oh, you know,I just read about the psychologist" And she said the name you know, it's a very famous psychologis "You know him,right?" Now I didn't have the faintest clue who was she who she was talking about - no idea And I remember pausing for a second and looking at her and just smiling "Hmm, mHmmm" And the conversation continued to flow Now I would not have noticed this except for the fact that afterwards I went home and went over the conversation Then I said "Hey wait a minut, I just lied to her!" And ever since then I've been doing this regularly - lying that is No, I've been doing this regularly Ever since then I've been keeping doing the integrity exercise that DePaulo talks about that Nathaniel Branden talks about to be very conscious about my conversations Am I just saying things to impress which are not authentic? Am I having those little lies? Because you see, when we are telling the truth the message that we communicate to ourselves the message that we communicate to ourselves is that my words are worthy my words are important; I matter And when we don't do that when we tell lies or we are about impressing constantly we are saying "I'm not good enough as I am." I need to be someone else so that the other person likes I need to know that psychologist because otherwise she won't like me instead of being authentic and real instead of being known rather than validated and doing it and being conscious of it for a week  at a time until the behavior changes our attitude and I begin to value my words much more when I communicate myself - who I am rather than trying to impress others When I assert myself when I say no at times so that I can simplify my life a little bit when I say yes when it's appropriate even it's not the most popular yes in the world but it's right for me And it's about expanding it in time as well as in space It is started first of all by myself why does journaling help so much? Why does therapy with an empathic therapist why does it work so well? Because we are ourselves we don't try impress the therapist After a while we open up We don't try to impress our journal We are ourselves And expanding it from our journal which makes us feel good to close relationships, to others from doing it one day one conversation at a time to a week of integrity treatment so to speak to lifelong Imagine leading this life how freed up do we feel when you no longer need to express or impress ourselves constantly where we can just be known where we can just be ourselves how much lighter how much more power how much more integrity and authenticity we will experience how much happier will we be? I want to end by reading you an excerpt from Melissa Christino's journal which she cited in her senior thesis This, of course is with her permission Melissa Christino was an undergraduate here, class of 2002 And this is what she writes "Your true potential lies way way down in the depths of your soul... in the pit of your stomach past your knowledge, beyond your nervousness and buried under your fears and anxieties As hidden as it may be it is still there I know it's there because I've felt it before and I know it's there in others too because I've seen others perform miracles There is a faint glow of unparalleled potential in all of us and when we find it — it shine." It's there in each and every one of us - this glow And if we feed it, if we cultivate it, it grows And it grows to the level that expands beyond the self where people like Warren Bennis where people like Nelson Mandela where people like Anita Roddick people like mother Teresa - just their presence just their presence, their being shines a light onto others So what I'd like you to do now we have 4 more minute here's what I'd like to do now I'm going to play a song for yo usually played at the beginning I want to play it at the end today If you feel comfortable you can close your eyes and listen to the words of the song and what they mean to you what they mean in the context of your life So if you feel comfortable close your eyes, and listen really listen to the following words [SONG: Gloria Gaynor "I Am What I Am"] I am what I am I am my own special creation So come take a look Give me the hook Or the ovation It's my world That I want to have a little pride in My world And it's not a place I have to hide in Life's not worth a damn Till you can say I am what I am Open your eyes! C'mon! Get up I am what I am All right. Let's go down Let's join them 



 Chapter 22: 收获交流


Hello Hi, My name is Pearl Hoddling And I'm a senior in Kirkland House And I'm here to ask you to join me this Saturday from 10 to 2 for free pancakes from Hendriana's table and Maquat Nine years ago my dad was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease a neurological disorder Though he, my family and I have gone through many ups and downs both physical and emotional I finally found a way to help a definitive op I want to put on this event ＂Pancakes for Parkinson's＂ for a few years now And I didn't get the guts to do it until this year Thank you. Tal for helping me to get over my procrastination and start building a positive spiral for finding a cure for Parkinson's disease All donations will go directly to Michael J.Fox foundation for Parkinson's research So please come between 10 and 2 this Saturday to enjoy pancake for a good cause Thank you Hi, My name is Maureen Hilton And I'm a fellow student of this class And I work here at Harvard College I would like to invite you all to my positive psychology presentation which is next Friday May 9th at 2 pm in Harvard Hall The main goal hope for next Friday is bring together in one room people interested in positive psychology here at Harvard This includes Harvard administrators of all levels the class's teaching staff, students whether they are alumni of past positive psychology class or current students of this class whether college or extension school or students who hope that there's positive psychology here in the future and certainly anyone you would like to invite Please let this be an opportunity for you to share your stories and the reasons why this class has impacted your life And in addition to help the networking and socializing part of this gathering the Harvard Callbacks will be singing the seniors who you may know - Gina Skylar and Kedar will be singing their solos for possibly the last time here at Harvard And there will be free food Again, please feel free to bring and invite anyone you like especially fellow students who are hoping there's another positive psychology course in the future No RSVP's necessary Just come Because what we'll definitely leave a lasting impression on the Harvard administration is if together we create a little peak experience and fill a room of people who come together for the promotion of positive psychology Please come next Friday May 9th at 2 pm at Harvard Hall Thank you I don't really know what to say So I ask someone to say it for me [VIDEO: THE MUPPET SHOW ＂Saying Goodbye＂] Saying goodbye going away Seems like goodbye's such a hard thing to say Touching our hands wondering why It's time for saying goodbye Kermit! Goodbye! Goodbyyyyyyyye! Saying goodbye why is it sad? Makes us remember the good times we've had Much more to say foolish to try It's time for saying goodbye Don't want to leave but we both know Sometimes it's better to go Somehow I know we'll meet again Not sure quite where and I don't know just when You're in my heart so until then It's time for saying goodbye Somehow I know we'll meet again Not sure quite where and I don't know just when You're in my heart so until then Wanna smile Wanna cry Saying goodbye~~~La la la la la la la la It's time for saying goodbye La la la la la la la la La la la la-la la la So I need your help I'm so very nervous What can I do? Meditate? Thank you Exercise? Now? You mean dance? OK Tell a joke You tell a joke What else? Any suggestions? Hug someone! Good idea At least 12 hugs, right? Yeah Anything else? Deep breath! OK. Good So it's OK to be nervous? Thank you Feel better already So this is for me the last class at Harvard Who else is in the same boat? Wow. Your last class What I'd like to do today is summarize what we've gone through some of the journey as much as possible And what I'd like to do is to share that the responsibility of summarizing to share it with you so I'd like to start with you thinking and reflecting about the course In other words, we are going to run the class today like a small intimacy section Afterwards I'll go through what I think of some of the highlights main points from the semester So I want to start with a time-in an opportunity for you to reflect And specifically I would like you to reflect on the following things and actually write them down So go over your notes or go over your mental notes and write down at least two things that were particularly meaningful or interesting for you from this semester whether it's something that you heard in lecture something you discussed in section something that you read something that you talked about with your friends after class and somehow was connected to your experience here anything or at least two things that were personally meaningful and interesting to you So this is the first thing The second thing that I'd like you to write down and you may have done it before You may have written it before at least two commitments that you are making two behavioral changes or attitudinal changes two commitments that you are taking upon yourself now that the semester is almost over So again, two meaningful or interesting ideas at least and at least two commitments whether it's in the form of rituals attitudinal change or behavioral change So take just a few minutes to do that in a time-in OK Now what I'd like you to do - and this is completely voluntary of course is share some of the things that you've learned or at least one thing that you learned that was personally meaningful or interesting to you from this semester and if you feel comfortable the one of the two commitments or both commitments that you've taken upon yourselves with the person next to you or with two people next to you So take just 5 minutes to share with one another one interesting or meaningful thing and one commitment or two OK I hope you continue the rest of your day for the rest of your life sharing what you've learned what you are learning how you are growing Now what I would like to do is hear some of you just talk about you know one thing perhaps that you find found interesting or meaningful that could be directly from the class or something tangential but what was meaningful or interesting for you this semester And we have some microphones spread around the room So if anyone would like to be the first one, to volunteer remember courage is not about not having fear it's about having fear and going ahead anyway If courage was about not having fear I would not be teaching this class Elizabeth I think for me what the most important thing was was the idea of self-concordant goal not being frivolous or selfish but actually being something that one should actively pursue and can help the people around you more than by pursuing that what you are told to pursue Great. So essentially dissolving this divide between self and the other And remember the Dalai Lama - how surprised he was when he came to the west and he heard our word for compassion means essentially compassion toward others whereas Sawai in Tibetan means compassion toward others and compassion toward oneself They go hand in hand; they are intertwined So identifying our self-concordant goals is very much about helping ourselves and ultimately making the world a better place Wonderful. Thank you I found the Roger Bannister story really meaningful to me especially because now I know nothing is impossible even there are scientists telling you things are impossible You can still achieve them Right. You know so often people tell us that it's impossible you can't do it And we have that voice at the back of our mind those limiting beliefs whether it's limiting beliefs about how we can feel can feel; and what we can achieve And what Roger Bannister's story does what it helps us do is chip away some of these limitations and understand our potential Thank you. Yes The day when you told the story about your grandmother and how she was able to still see so much beauty in the world after everything she had been through was very, very moving for me And that was a very unique experience to be so emotionally moved in this academic setting So that was really powerful And that really made me reevaluate the way I look at my life and the way that I appreciate the things that I have Thank you, Thank you I really like the idea that we can get over things bad things a lot quicker than we would anticipate I just think that you know so often we cheat ourselves of so much success so much potential, pleasure but I think, you know just the idea of going forward and that we will ultimately get over it if it doesn't work out That's really important Right, yes. So you know just like when we achieve something good we go back to base level and feel like as we did before also when we fail And it's a real liberating feeling to know that that we are resilient that we will recover Thank you Yes For me, it was important to realize balance between the rat racer and the hedonist finding the balance between short term benefit and long term benefit Right. You know so much of our lives is about ＂either or＂ Either I'm a successful rat racer or I'm a hedonist who has given up essentially on success Whereas what we can very  often do is reconcile the two You know, eat the cake and leave it whole - so it seems Future benefit and present benefit in one Thank you To seek to be known and not validated - and the way you taught the class opening up, let's say each individual failure you had in your life I found myself my own failures - they are different but they are the same I felt less lonely Thank you. You know when what I shared at I think the very first class here was what Carl Rogers said which is ＂what is most personal is most general＂ Because deep down humanity is humanity, is humanity And when we live in the world with the desire to be known expressing ourselves that's I think when we can reach out most to others whether it's in a romantic relationship whether it's in friendships whether it's in a classroom Thank you Yes One thing I would take away from this class is to be conscious about being grateful because sometimes I feel that you take for granted the people you love the most To be grateful - there are so many treasures of happiness of well being all around us and within us And the challenge is just to open our eyes to appreciate them Yes What was really amazing to me was how open others where not in the class such as family and other friends not in the class to also take on this change in their life They didn't see it as some cookie self-help thing but really as ＂Oh yeah, maybe I should take note of all the things I'm grateful for in my life＂and other exercises Yeah, you know this is paying it forward Sometimes we are so afraid to talk about things that matter to us And when we do and when we are real when we are genuine when we express ourselves these things are contagious And we pay it forward And then they pay it forward Thank you. Yes Before taking this class I blame my mood and my happiness a lot on those going around me like my circumstances So taking this class really helped me aware the circumstances really don't control your happiness level that I have more than an active role like how I feel Right. You know remember one of the things we talked about is that at least I don't believe that things necessarily happen for the best You know there are some times where there are bad circumstances poor circumstances hard circumstances the challenge though is how can we make the best of that which have happened And we do have much more control over it than we think Yes The class allowed me so many times during almost every day to understand something is part of me being human as part my permission to be human rather than conceive it as my feelings or something that I wasn't doing well enough So the permission - you know I've repeated it for so many times and I'll continue to repeat it until use every last minute that I have to do it because it's really on so many levels the foundation of well being And unfortunately too much in our culture today what is going on is what I call ＂the great deception＂ where we think well everyone is doing great except for me So I'm going to pretend that I'm doing great too And then we become part of that great deception reinforcing it The permission to be human Yes The whole piece about perfectionism I have never seen myself as a perfectionist and I think it's just kind of self denial So through the exercises in the course as well as you know in the book different readings that we've done have really allowed me to explore that, and accept that and make proactive changes in my life to grow away from that Great. You know perfectionism is again another thing that so many people hide because perfectionist almost by definition doesn't want to show the weakness And as I mentioned in the class unperfectionism for me has been the most important in terms of my progression toward becoming happier Accepting failure as an inevitable accepting that life is not a straight line but rather a spiral with ups and downs along with the general trajectory as improvement, growth and permission So for me one of the things that really resonated was the idea of reframing the question At the very beginning you spoke about the fact that there was the 21 to 1 ratio of negative to positive research And as someone who will be going into research in neurobiology it was really interesting just reframing of a world view just start thinking of well perhaps start looking at what is working in terms of research And, so I will take that with me into my academics The importance of questions - questions create our reality Remember the question of the children on the bus which most people completely missed remember years and years of research that was done in the inner cities with at risk population where they missed the answer to how can we improve their lives They missed it because they did not also ask the positive question And it applies into every area of our lives as I'll talk about soon Yes Before, I always procrastinate That is my big problem for my academic Now I improved a lot Thank you very much Procrastination - you know 70 percent of students in universities complain about procrastination It's a huge issue And one of the ways to overcome it the best way to overcome it is to just do it Just start - remember the five minute take-off That's so important Thank you Yes I was just really really impressed with the reading that we read by Gilbert that was talking about how the good luck in your life and the wonderful circumstances you find yourself in are really your own making And by changing your outlook and your patterns you can really make a difference in your happiness day to day Yeah. You know so many people live lives and think ＂well…＂ only I didn't meet that person if only this hasn't happen to me I would have been happy And understanding that so much of it is determined by our perception is very empowering Yes What has been most meaningful for me has been in fact that this class exists and that there are so many people interested in happiness cause you know the culture here at Harvard we don't always get the chance to really think about it And as you said, you know it's you are just reminding us what we already know but it's also letting us know that we are not crazy for knowing it Yeah, we are not We are not alone And we need that reminder and other people need that reminder And by reminding other people we also remind ourselves Thank you Yes For me it's the concept of integrity because I think we are all honest people but it's the little things at times each day when we compromise our beliefs or act in a way that doesn't align with how we think we should and that that really takes toll on our self esteem And so the idea of being constantly aware of and maintaining our integrity I think really stands to helps us feel better about ourselves Because when we tell the truth we are communicating a certain message to ourselves when we express ourselves we are communicating a certain message to ourselves And the message is my words count; I count When we express ＂we are good enough＂ don't need to put on a facade or impress Then the message the self perception theory actually enhances how we feel about ourselves not to mention that it helps interpersonal communication And the world would be a better place if more and more people acted with integrity And again, self and others divide dissolves Yes One the the phrases that you shared with us in your lectures that's really impacted me and I've actually embraced it as a kind of personal mantra is ＂learn to fail or fail to learn; there's no other way＂ And I kind of realized throughout the course, this class what a perfectionist I have been and how much time throughout my life my earliest memories have stuck really torturing myself the anxiety and fear of making a mistake and to reframe that and really look at those inevitable moments where I messed up as you know fuel for moving forward, as opportunities has been wildly liberating So I thank you for that Thank you The notion of ＂learn to fail and fail to learn＂ as you know is my personal mantra as well It's very liberating It's liberating within the context of relationship within the context of our academic performance within the context of an organization on every level And it's important to understand that there is no other way to learn whether it's to draw a circle or to walk It's just part of life And if we accept it we are much happier for it Thank you Elizabeth What's really been really meaningful to me in deciding what concentration to pursue is the idea of happiness is ultimate currency and trying to kind of eliminate outside influences and really think about what is meaningful to me and what will make me happy in what I study So thank you The ultimate currency you know many people say about Americans that one of the reasons why the levels of depression are on the rise one of the reasons why there are so many unhappy people is because Americans have too high expectations And that's not true I disagree with it; and the research disagrees with it It's not about having high versus low expectations it's about having right versus wrong expectations And it applies to, to many areas but one of the things to understand is that where do we look to gain gratification from our life Is it from, again getting the next accolade the next promotion or the people tell us how wonderful our concentration is? Or is it from doing what we want to do in other words, being determined by the ultimate currency and understanding that happiness is the ultimate currency? Thank you Yes I feel that all this semester and all this year in fact I have been trying to I have been either going to class or running to lab or just finding some way to fill up every hour of my day And it seems like I'm constantly running from one place to another And it seems all my life I have been just essentially trying to fill up every hour of my day And I feel what's really important and what I really got from this is what you said about doing less is more And that's something I'm definitely going to take like keep in mind the next three years when I'm here Yeah, less is more Quantity affects quality And we so often wonder you know ＂how come I am unhappy?＂ I have so many things in my life that are wonderful and amazing And that could be part of the problem Because more is not always better Not easy to simplify - that's so very important So very important Yes The concept of simplicity on the other side of complexity is so awful for me, because you know when you grow up in life you add all these variables and it becomes more and more complicated And as a is certain frustration about not being able to simplify But when you say at the top of the complexity is when you realize the beauty realizing that the simplicity comes after complexity not before complexity And the knowledge of complexity that's an amazing concept So Oliver Wendell Holmes talks about the simplicity on the other side of complexity And that applies whether it's to ideas - and again this class most of it is very simple And there were no very complicated concepts here But many of them are the simplicity on the other side of complexity Same on the individual level Very often we go through hardships and our life is so difficult We go through a crisis, through a crucible And what we need to do to understand when we are going through that complexity and hardship and the crucible and the difficulties is that there is simplicity on the other side Very often all we need to do is hang on Just wait a little bit longer And there'll be more clarity more growth more development more joy at the end of it Yes On your passing on the mic I was like ＂Oh my God, I don't really have anything to say There are so many people, I will never do that.＂ And then you said courage is not about fearless but about having fear and doing it anyway So I just threw my pack over the wall I was like＂Give me that mic! I'm gonna do it!＂ And it's in my hand and I'm speaking So thank you for that That's what it is about It's about behavioral change Not in theory. Good Yes You've spoken in the past few lectures about in an anonymous world and about how we would live if our action is anonymous And I think that knowing what we want and actually pursuing what we want is or can be really challenging even frightening It just seems like you really know what you want and pursued and pursue what you want And I think that is something to be really proud of And you definitely seem to practice what you preach and teach And I have enormous amount of respect for you because of that Thank you Thank you There are many things but one thing I'm really learned from this class is it is important to focus on what we really, really like to do You said many time in the class teaching is your calling And I can see how much you enjoy teaching And it was really inspiring to me So I think I will remember that and I will keep looking for my calling and what I really, really like to do Thank you Yes Let's take someone with the microphone And we'll get it to you Anyone has a microphone? Wait. OK I used to be the kind of person who like run away from my problems and I used to try to ignore them until they went away And I don't do that anymore Cause I know that if I'm unhappy the only person who can do something about it is me And I need to make a change And this class has given me all sorts of tools to do that So thank you Thank you I just wanted to thank you for the idea of the power of commitment because it helped me get my job you know and something that I want to do which is journalism versus something that I wasn't excited about doing which is like PR So I wanted to thank you for that because you know I decided to jump into it and throw my pack over the wall And that's why I got it. So thank you You know Hi. Neiman fellows Yes I remember that you talked about when you stretch a muscle it gets stronger and brought up the idea of stretch zone And I didn't realize how much stronger I would become when I stretch myself and do things that weren't in things in my stretch zone and my panic zone I just thank you because I think this class has really been the road map A lot of us have needed to change and becomes happier So thank you Thank you Good afternoon, everyone I'd like to first of all say you are great. Yeah And also I am a proud educator in the Milwaukee public school system Are there any future educators in the room? ＂Milwaukee!＂ And what you speak of as Albert Bandura and the theory of self efficacy is so very important And anyone who is interested in youth empowerment or education it's very, very important No.1 to have high expectations for our children especially children of color cause as an educator I see what Bandura talks about and what Dweck talks about this diminished sense of reality for these kids that produces whole other world for them So you know I just want to really focus and kind of stress that And thank you for sharing that That's important to have high expectations for children and for yourselves of course Right. Beliefs in self-fulfilling prophecies so often create the world our world and the world of those around us based on our beliefs Let's take a couple of more And I'll do my quick summary Yes OK Go for it I know this has been mentioned a couple times already but it's so easy to blame others for our unhappiness or others' actions or even our own actions for our unhappiness But you've talked so many times about what's going on in our own subconscious and how what subconscious may be doing is might actually preventing our unhappiness preventing our happiness rather And it just brought me back to Marva Collins and how if a student did something wrong she made them go through the alphabet and say these are all good things about me And it's really been enlightening to try to think about how am I thinking what am I not doing to others or what others are doing to me but what am I thinking that's preventing me from being a happier person That's wonderful. Thank you Let's take two more So up there I guess two things that really stuck with me from the class is the little clip you showed of the baby learning to walk And just like what you conveyed the idea like this baby has no reason to like have a sense of why he's falling down and it should be anything that he should be ashamed of And that was just like a very effective way to kind of convey like we always saying kind of learn to fail and fail to learn That really stuck with me And also your own willingness to describe your own kind of rises and falls as you went through your studies of psychology and your experiences at Cambridge and Harvard and just your willingness to be very open about it It's kind of empowering like, for me is I'm about to graduate and I go forward kind of maybe don't know what exactly you want to do and you consider different options and obviously that fear of failures especially when you come from a place like Harvard is maybe especially xx You just you are willing to share these experiences and empowering I feel as I kind of question the choices I am going to make So I really appreciate that Thank you Yes Every day is a beautiful day And to be grateful for that somehow makes it easier to go out and try to do things that maybe even we didn't like And common sense is not that common And these are all - a lot of things that I've learned I already knew but now I learned it at Harvard Great. All right Let's take one more So I'm senior and I'm leaving So this is my last lecture class at Harvard So I apologize if this message seems a little more geared towards the undergrads in the class one of the things that I'm very impressed with is a large lecture class that is so far reaching as far as the number of people who want to take it and the diversity of students in the class But I guess this experience that I like to share is that I came into this class admittedly because I value honesty I will say I took it because I thought it would be a nice complement to an otherwise a difficult senior spring And I thought,＂Well, it'll be nice class to have.＂ And my sophomore year I had gone through kind of a self discovery post depression that made me kind of value things in a different way So I've been I've been using these lessons that I learned sophomore year And I thought＂Well maybe this class will just be redundant＂ Turns out I went through another really difficult time during my senior spring And um... Sorry I guess what I'd like to relate to especially the undergrads here is that it's very important if you are a freshmen if you are a sophomore it's not even too late as juniors it's very important to prioritize what's really important to you at this school And let me tell you it's not the paper it's not the problem set it's not getting a full 8 hours sleep when your friends need your attention for an hour because the people here matter the most And you'll miss them And if you don't spend time with them now you won't have time to spend time with them later on So it's very important prioritize what is meaningful for you and what you really, really want to do in this school because before you know it it will be over So thank you for helping me remember that and making it meaningful semester Thank you. Thank you. Thank you Let me summarize All of these things that you already mentioned before these are not necessarily the most important These are the ones that for me without looking back on my notes came up First the questions that you ask will very often determine the quest that you take And if we only ask the negative questions such as ＂why do so many of these individuals fail?＂ Then we won't see the potential for greatness that exists in each individual if we only ask ＂How can my relationship be improved?＂ Then we will not see all the wonders and the treasures and the miracle that exist in the person next to us We also need to ask the positive question what is good about my relationship? What is great about my partner? What is wonderful about myself? What is meaningful to me? What is pleasurable to me? What am I good at? Questions start a quest And the kind of the quest they start depends on the quality of the question that we ask The four minute mile - beliefs create reality Not only beliefs, but to a great extent how we perceive reality is what actually comes true Marva Collins believed in her students believes in her students and miracles happen Those unteachable ones become extraordinary because of beliefs Remember John Carlton's study once again about business school graduates Two thing distinguish the extraordinary from the rest One was that they were always asking question always wanting to learn more having that humbleness that's so important for growth and well being and self esteem And second they believed in themselves They had the confidence They had the self efficacy to succeed and to thrive How do we improve the belief? By putting ourselves on the line, by coping by taking risks by showing ourselves that we can do it through visualization There are no short cuts to success Learn to fail or fail to learn It is no coincident that the most successful extraordinary people in history were also the ones who failed the most whether it was in sports, Babe Ruth who struck out more than any other players of his time but also hit the most home runs whether it was Michael Jordan who described his failures time and time again whether it's taking the game winning shot where he didn't make it or practicing over and over and over again It's no coincident that Thomas Edison the person who had more patents than any other scientist in history is also the scientist who had failed the most times Remember Dean Simonton's work on scientists as well as the artists The most successful ones were also the ones who failed the most There is no other way to learn Moreover if we accept this if we accept this growth mindset as opposed to fixed mindset that Carol Dweck talks about it Not only we will be, improve more we will also be happier because then not every experience is a threat to our ego to our self, to our self esteem If we accept the failure is inevitable whether in a relationship there are disappointments and arguments or in individual life or on a national level no perfect country, no perfect person no perfect organization And if we understand that life is about this as opposed to about this we'll be so much happier so much calmer and paradoxically so much more successful The permission to be human - there are two kinds of people who don't experience painful emotions Who are they again? The psychopath and dead people I'm so glad none of you are psychopath and that you are all alive It makes the class so much better so much safer You are not going to come out of this class experience a constant high No one experiences a constant high You are going to continue to have those ups and downs The only difference I hope that you will experience now is that when you experience a painful emotion you will look at it and say ＂Oh, I'm human. It hurts I wish it weren't that way but I accept it just like you accept the law of gravity because the law of gravity is as much part of physical nature as painful emotion is a part of human nature Permission to be human We talked about many interventions that work in this class Most interventions don't work as we've seen whether it's with the Somerville study or others Journaling works When we write, when we open up whether it's in writing or sharing with a person we care about And it can be a therapist It can be our best friend, our partner When we share, when we open up we are able to make sense create ＂a sense of coherence＂ in the words of Antonovsky about the experiences of our lives and enjoy higher levels of happiness It works There are so many treasures of happiness all around us and within us And the question is do we notice them? Or do we take them for granted? Remember the word, appreciate It has two meanings: one is to say thank you for something which is a nice thing to do again, sister called the gratitude is the highest of virtues It's a nice thing to be grateful The second meaning is no less important Appreciate means to grow And when we appreciate the good in our lives when we appreciate the good in our relationship when we appreciate our partner our friends, our classmates when we appreciate our country the good grows Unfortunately the opposite is also the case When we don't appreciate the good depreciates There is no perfect relationship no perfect person, no perfect country The important thing though is to focus on what is working Appreciate it so that it appreciates So many people wonder why they are not happy even though they have all the things that they want in their lives Why? Because there can be too much of a good thing Remember my favorite piece of music? Whitney Houston - And I Will Always Love You Straight 10 Second favorite: Beethoven's 9th, 9.5 Play together - play together: noise Not 19.5, not 10, not 5 Noise There can be too much of a good thing Easier said than done to simplify But remember that a much better predictor of well being than material affluence is time affluence Simplify. Assert yourself Say no at times when it's appropriate Find out what you really, really really want to do with your life and do it The No.1 predictor of well being - relationships The No.1 predictor of well being an intimate relationship that you cultivate now and in the future matters more than anything else in the world Yes, even more than a problem set even more than an exam even more than how wildly successful we are and how admired we are Yeah, that will lead to a spike in our well being very quickly will go back to base level just like the tenure professors went back to the base level Just like the lottery winners And the highly successful individuals who thought they had made it and went to the base level and below because they didn't know what would make them happier Well, this is what can one of the things that can make us happier And to cultivate relationship means to invest in them to put time into them To share, to open up Just like we would invest if we found our ideal job, ideal workplace we would start to invest then Same with relationship Remember movies end where love begins It's about cultivating the relationship after the screen comes down after the sunset - that's where the investment that's where the return of investment comes Our mind can only take us only so far You know I know positive psychology pretty well I apply everything that I talk about here However, I really think that if I was not cognizant of the body mind connection and applying the body mind connection to my life I would be far less happy than I am today Why? Because I would be compromising on my base level God's given gene's given level of well being Because when we don't  exercise it's like taking a depressant And we have to fight our nature And it's very hard to fight our nature It's very difficult to enhance our levels of well being as is to have to also fight against nature is incredibly difficult So remember the wonder drug Exercise at least four times a week for 30 minutes If you can, if you are interested do some formal yoga or mindful meditation sitting meditation If not, at the very least breathe -breathe deeply a few times a day Three deep breaths can make a big difference Now is not a bad time to do it Sleep - when possible 8 hours or somewhere around 8 hours a night of sleep And touch Hug, embrace - an underused sense is so important Be known rather than be validated And again, all of us have the need to be validated It's not about getting rid of our dependent self esteem but it is very much about first and foremost being known expressing rather than impressing Life becomes so much lighter, so much easier so much more exciting when we are about expressing ourselves Being known rather than being validated whether it's with our romantic partner our family, our friends, our colleagues, our class the foundation of the growth of intimacy and passion in long term relationships Easier said than done It's so important Now I tried to have top 10 but I couldn't. I had to have one more so you'll have to excuse me The last one and the one that brings together all the others on so many levels is the one about change Finally. You've been waiting the entire semester just for this - well was worth the wait I hope There are two types - I mean there are many types but there are also two types of graduates from 1504 or any other class or workshop that is about attaining higher levels of happiness One that at best enjoys a temperate high Or nice memory and goes back down to base level And the second that enjoys maybe the same temperate high which cannot last our entire lives but still enjoy continuous growth throughout their lives And the difference, the primary difference is whether or not you introduce behavioral changes Remember Peter Drucker - what he said whenever people came to him for a weekend - seminar intensive he said on Monday ＂Don't call me to tell me how wonderful it was Call me and tell me what you are doing differently.＂ Because in his 65 years of experience working with the most successful the most inspiring the best and the brightest people in the world what he's found that this is what extinguishes real lasting change from a temperate high Don't tell me how wonderful it was Tell me what you are doing differently on Monday Introduce behavioral changes now This is the core of change What you learned in this class hopefully is only the beginning only the beginning because remember once again Carlton's study The people who succeed, the most who are the happiest succeed the most in the ultimate currency in a long term ones who are lifelong learners always asking questions, always finding out more But there are many people with good intentions many people with good intentions but good intentions are not enough What we also need is the foundation the empirical, rigorous scientific foundation of things that work And when we know these things then we pay them forward then we share them In psychology among other social sciences and sciences in humanities "What you got here at Harvard? What are you getting here at Harvard?" is that foundation that can that can make the world a better place I don't teach this class only because it is fun for me it is fun; yes, it is very pleasurable to me I told you I can't wait for Tuesdays and Thursdays to share what I care about the most with you Yes it's fun But I don't do it just because of that I do it because I think the ideas of  some of the greatest psychologists that I have quoted and cited and discussed their ideas can change the world for the better Maslow back in 1954 wrote: ＂I am not only the disinterested and impersonal seeker for pure cold truth for its own sake I am also very definitely interested and concerned with man's fate with his ends and goals and with his future I would like to help improve him and better his prospects I hope to help teach him how to be brotherly cooperative, peaceful, courageous and just, I think science is the best hope for achieving this and of all the sciences I consider psychology most important to this end Indeed, I sometimes think that the world will either be saved by psychologists in the very broadest sense or else it will not be saved at all.＂ In the broadest sense of psychologists It doesn't mean that you now have to go on and get a PHD in psychology or to concentrate in psychology But it means to be constant cognizant to be self aware of what is going on in here the most wondrous and amazing entity in the universe to understand what's going on here and there, and here and how they are connected and to share it by being practical idealists And you can make a difference You can make a difference Because the one has incredible power Remember if you make three people smile and they make three other people smile After 20 interations you'll touch every single human being on the planet Happiness is contagious Let me show you one last video of how happiness and joy is contagious Dad is going to make you laugh now. Ready? What kind of world that they will grow into depends on you And it depends on whether or not you first and foremost take care of yourself In the words of Gandhi ＂Be the change you want to see in the world＂ If you want a happier world, be that change All the places you will go I would like to remind you that every time you go to a place and very often you will fly to a place that every time you go you will hear something that hopefully will trigger hopefully will remind you how important it is to take care of yourself because to take care of others you first and foremost need to take care of yourself You know when you fly and the flight attendant says in case of any emergency and the oxygen mask comes down first help yourself before you help others who need your help Because that is the source the foundation of the golden rule It is the foundation of a better world The ultimate currency So each time you go to one of those wonderful places exotic or otherwise remember to simplify remember to take care of yourself remember to exercise remember to assert yourself and say no when appropriate Remember to cultivate your relationships Remember what it is that is really really important for you in your life This experience this semester for me has been extraordinary And it was made extraordinary first by the amazing teaching staff that we have Won't you come up? Just a few minutes. A few minutes. Not more. OK? You have no idea what kind of work was going on behind the scenes You have no idea how much how much each and every one of the teaching staff the head TFs, Shawn and Debb and every one of the others How much they put into cultivating that relationship with you how many hours they spent how much, how many mindful and heartful moments they spent So I would like to thank them, and I would like you to thank them for their presence for who they are So thank you. Come up. Come up there are many of those to be made But I'd like to give our TFs a little token of appreciation The way to celebrate your hard work? Do you want to say something? It's your turn My turn.Thank you Quick, quick, quick. OK So I actually just want to say thank you to all of our TFs for their great work Thank you to all the students here, the extension students Most importantly I'd like to thank my mo... No! I'd like to thank Tal So firstly I want to thank Tal's grandparents for surviving for his parents for thriving for you know what, yeah? for you know what And I'd like to thank Tammy for putting a smile on Tal's face and Sherill and David for sharing him with us And for the opportunity for all of us to be a little more human because we are humanless. So thank you We are not the only one who are in tons of grateful to you You've touched so many people here this semester and always But your students this semester all sent in thank you notes and we've compiled them and bounded them for you For all the places you go to, take it with you thank you That is volume 1 of the gratitude book More letters are coming in So you can still send them And finally it wouldn't be... We want a token for you to always remember this class and this great opportunity something that you would hope to use every time you teach this class in the future I mean no pressure Because you are king leader, and this hat... Thank you. Thank you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you Just one more thing One more, one more Thank you. Thank you so much Just want to say two more things I know we are over time I'm really sorr.. Well one minute I want to thank just a few other people I would like to thank Barry Reid sitting at the back And the wonderful crew the wonderful crew who are bringing this class to your home to your computers And finally I would like to thank you Each and every one of you is an entire world a world in the making in the making of this world - your world our world a better place So thank you And take care Take a good care Thank you 
