


 Chapter 0: 谋杀背后的道德逻辑






 Chapter 1: 为生命标价


欲观看、下载高清视频，可移步
www.AprilSeason.com
www.AprilSeason.com 给生命贴上价格
Putting a price tag on life 上一次，我们讨论了
Last time, we argued about 英国女王与Dudley和Stephens案件
the case of The Queen v. Dudley & Stephens, 一个发生在救生艇上，人吃人的案件。
the lifeboat case, the case of cannibalism at sea. 我们讨论了发生在救生艇上的一些争论
And with the arguments about the lifeboat in mind, 关于支持还是反对Dudley和Stephens的做法的争论
the arguments for and against what Dudley and Stephens did in mind, 让我们回到哲学，边沁的功利主义哲学。
let's turn back to the philosophy, the utilitarian philosophy of Jeremy Bentham. 1748年，边沁生于在英国。在12岁时，他去了牛津大学。
Bentham was born in England in 1748. At the age of 12, he went to Oxford. 15岁时去了法学院。19岁时就拿到律师资格
At 15, he went to law school. He was admitted to the Bar at age 19 但他从来没有从事法律。
but he never practiced law. 相反，他毕生致力于法学和道德哲学。
Instead, he devoted his life to jurisprudence and moral philosophy. 上一次，我们开始谈到了边沁的功利主义。
Last time, we began to consider Bentham's version of utilitarianism. 其主要思想可以表达为：
The main idea is simply stated and it's this: 不论是个人或政治道德，道德的最高原则，
The highest principle of morality, whether personal or political morality, 就是为了将大众福利、集体的幸福最大化
is to maximize the general welfare, or the collective happiness, 或在快乐和痛苦之间找到平衡点;
or the overall balance of pleasure over pain; 一句话，效用最大化。
in a phrase, maximize utility. 边沁是经过以下的推理，得出这个原则：
Bentham arrives at this principle by the following line of reasoning: 我们都是受痛苦和快乐支配，
We're all governed by pain and pleasure, 他们就像统治我们的君主，所以任何道德体系
they are our sovereign masters, and so any moral system 都要把它们考虑进去。
has to take account of them. 怎么才能最优地把这两者都考虑到？通过最大化。
How best to take account? By maximizing. 这也就引出了：追求最多数人的最大利益的原则。
And this leads to the principle of the greatest good for the greatest number. 那么我们应该把什么最大化呢？
What exactly should we maximize? 边沁告诉我们，是幸福，或者更准确，效用 -
Bentham tells us happiness, or more precisely, utility - 将效用最大化，不仅是对个人
maximizing utility as a principle not only for individuals 还有集体，及立法者。
but also for communities and for legislators. “那什么是集体？”边沁问道。
"What, after all, is a community?" Bentham asks. 那就是组成这个集体的所有个人的总和。
It's the sum of the individuals who comprise it. 这就是为什么，在决定什么是最好的政策时，
And that's why in deciding the best policy, 在决定法律应该怎么制定，在决定什么是公正时，
in deciding what the law should be, in deciding what's just, 公民和立法者应该问自己一个的问题
citizens and legislators should ask themselves the question 如果我们把这一政策的所有好处加起来
if we add up all of the benefits of this policy 再减去所有的成本
and subtract all of the costs, the right thing to do 我们要做的就是平衡幸福和苦难后，找到最大值。
is the one that maximizes the balance of happiness over suffering. 这就是效用最大化的意思。
That's what it means to maximize utility. 今天，我想看看你是否同意这个观点，
Now, today, I want to see whether you agree or disagree with it, 功利主义的逻辑常常是
and it often goes, this utilitarian logic, 建立在成本和效益分析，
under the name of cost-benefit analysis, 企业和政府一直也是这么做
which is used by companies and by governments all the time. 它涉及到给所有东西赋予一个价值，
And what it involves is placing a value, 通常是用美元来表示
usually a dollar value, to stand for utility on the costs 成本和各种的收益。
and the benefits of various proposals. 最近，在捷克共和国，有人提议
Recently, in the Czech Republic, there was a proposal 增加吸烟的消费税。一家叫Philip Morris的烟草公司
to increase the excise tax on smoking. Philip Morris, the tobacco company, 在捷克拥有庞大的生意
does huge business in the Czech Republic. 他们委托做了个研究，进行成本效益分析
They commissioned a study, a cost-benefit analysis 分析吸烟为捷克的成本与效益
of smoking in the Czech Republic, and what their cost-benefit 分析发现，如果允许公民吸烟，政府将收益。
analysis found was the government gains by having Czech citizens smoke. 他们怎么获益？
Now, how do they gain? 虽然这对捷克的公共财政有负面的影响
It's true that there are negative effects to the public finance 因为吸烟者增多，患病人随之增多
of the Czech government because there are increased health care 对医疗问题的投入也要增多
costs for people who develop smoking-related diseases. 另一方面，也有积极影响
On the other hand, there were positive effects 这些积极的作用累积在账本的另一边
and those were added up on the other side of the ledger. 这些积极作用，主要包括，
The positive effects included, for the most part, 从销售卷烟产品中收取的各种税收
various tax revenues that the government derives from the sale 而且还包括
of cigarette products, but it also included 人们因病早死节省下来的医疗储蓄
health care savings to the government when people die early, 以及养老金储蓄（他们过早地死去，你就不用支付养老金）
pension savings -- you don't have to pay pensions for as long - 同时，节省了老人住房的费用。
and also, savings in housing costs for the elderly. 而当成本和收益都加起来，
And when all of the costs and benefits were added up, Philip Morris公司的研究发现，捷克政府的公共财政
the Philip Morris study found that there is a net public finance gain 将有1.47亿美元的净增益
in the Czech Republic of $147,000,000, 如果考虑到在住房、医疗、养老上的节省
and given the savings in housing, in health care, and pension costs, 对于那些因吸烟而早死的，政府能在他们每个人身上
the government enjoys savings of over $1,200 for each person 节省超过1,200元
who dies prematurely due to smoking. 成本效益分析。
Cost-benefit analysis. 现在，你们谁是支持功利主义的
Now, those among you who are defenders of utilitarianism 你可以认为这是一种不公平的测试。
may think that this is an unfair test. 报刊新闻攻击Philip Morris
Philip Morris was pilloried in the press 他们为这一无情的数字而道歉。
and they issued an apology for this heartless calculation. 你可能会说，功利主义缺少了一些东西
You may say that what's missing here is something that the utilitarian 也就是人的价值
can easily incorporate, namely the value to the person 以及这些死于肺癌的人所在的家庭。
and to the families of those who die from lung cancer. 如果把人的生命价值也考虑进去会怎样？
What about the value of life? 一些成本效益分析纳入了对生命价值的考量。
Some cost-benefit analyses incorporate a measure for the value of life. 其中一起是有名的Ford Pinto案件。
One of the most famous of these involved the Ford Pinto case. 你们之中有没有人读过这个案件？
Did any of you read about that? 这是早在20世纪70年代。
This was back in the 1970s. 你还记得Ford Pinto是什么？
Do you remember what the Ford Pinto was, 是一种的车吗？有没有人知道
a kind of car? Anybody? 这是一种小型车，超小的车，很受欢迎
It was a small car, subcompact car, very popular, 但它也有问题，问题出在它的油箱
but it had one problem, which is the fuel tank 因为油箱设在汽车的背部，与后方碰撞，
was at the back of the car and in rear collisions, 油箱爆炸，炸死了一些人
the fuel tank exploded and some people were killed 不少人严重受伤。
and some severely injured. 这些受害者把福特告到法院。
Victims of these injuries took Ford to court to sue. 而到了法庭上，结果是
And in the court case, it turned out that Ford 福特早就知道油箱有问题
had long since known about the vulnerable fuel tank 并且已做了成本效益分析，以确定是否应该
and had done a cost-benefit analysis to determine whether it would be 要把它设在一个特殊的挡板里
worth it to put in a special shield that would 保护油箱，来防止爆炸。
protect the fuel tank and prevent it from exploding. 他们做了成本效益分析。
They did a cost-benefit analysis. 计算每增加一个零件的成本
The cost per part to increase the safety of the Pinto, 他们算出来，每个零件要11.00美金。
they calculated at $11.00 per part. 在法庭上，福特呈上了成本效益分析
And here's -- this was the cost-benefit analysis that emerged in the trial. 12.5万辆轿车和卡车，每辆车多花11美元
Eleven dollars per part at 12.5 million cars and trucks 加起来一共要1.37亿美元的成本，来使其更安全。
came to a total cost of $137 million to improve the safety. 不过，他们还计算了，用这笔钱来
But then they calculated the benefits of spending all this money 做出一辆更安全的汽车，计算得出会有少死180人
on a safer car and they counted 180 deaths 如果每个死者分到20万元
and they assigned a dollar value, $200,000 per death, 180个死者，每人6万，然后维修的费用，
180 injuries, $67,000, and then the costs to repair, 更换2000辆车的费用，
the replacement cost for 2,000 vehicles, 这些无安全装置的车将被销毁，每辆700元。
it would be destroyed without the safety device $700 per vehicle. 因此，收益变成只有四千九百五十万
So the benefits turned out to be only $49.5 million 所以他们没有安装该设备。
and so they didn't install the device. 不用说，当福特的这个备忘录
Needless to say, when this memo of the 在开庭审理时呈上时，
Ford Motor Company's cost-benefit analysis came out in the trial, 让陪审团感到震惊，这些陪审员都获得了巨额的补偿金。
it appalled the jurors, who awarded a huge settlement. 这是功利主义的一个反面例子吗？
Is this a counterexample to the utilitarian idea of calculating? 因为福特公司在计算的时候把生命价值也包括在内。
Because Ford included a measure of the value of life. 现在，谁来为这个成本效益分析作辩护？
Now, who here wants to defend cost-benefit analysis 这是一个明显的反例
from this apparent counterexample? 谁要为其辩解？
Who has a defense? 或者，你是否认为这完全违背了
Or do you think this completely destroys the whole 整个功利主义的计算（原则）？
utilitarian calculus? Yes? 嗯，我想，他们又一次犯了同样的错误
Well, I think that once again, they've made the same mistake 跟以前的情况一样，他们为每条性命赋予了
the previous case did, that they assigned a dollar value 一美元的价值单位
to human life, and once again, 他们再次忽略了死伤者的家庭
they failed to take account things like suffering 所遭受的痛苦。
and emotional losses by the families. 我的意思是，他们不仅失去了家庭的收入来源，而且还失去了亲人
I mean, families lost earnings but they also lost a loved one 这些不是20万美元能衡量。
and that is more valued than $200,000. 对 - 等一下。你说得不错。你叫什么名字？
Right and -- wait, wait, wait, that's good. What's your name? Julie Roteau
Julie Roteau . Julie，如果20万美元是一个偏小的数字
So if $200,000, Julie, is too low a figure 因为它没有考虑到失去亲人的损失
because it doesn't include the loss of a loved one 以及这些年死去的生命
and the loss of those years of life, what would be - 你认为，多少才算是一个比较准确的数值？
what do you think would be a more accurate number? 我不认为我可以给一个明确的数字。我认为这种分析
I don't believe I could give a number. I think that this sort of analysis 不能应用于与生命有关的问题。
shouldn't be applied to issues of human life. 我认为不能用金钱来（解决）。
I think it can't be used monetarily. 因此，Julie说，他们不只是给的数值太小
So they didn't just put too low a number, Julie says. 而是，用数字来计算本身就是错的。
They were wrong to try to put any number at all. 好吧，让我们听听其他人
All right, let's hear someone who - 你还要考虑到通货膨胀。
You have to adjust for inflation. 你还要考虑到通货膨胀。
You have to adjust for inflation. 好的，很好。
All right, fair enough. 那么，现在这个数目应该是？
So what would the number be now? 这是35年前。
This was 35 years ago. 200万美元。
Two million dollars. 200万美元？你觉得要200万美元？
Two million dollars? You would put two million? 你叫什么名字？
And what's your name? Voytek
Voytek Voytek说，我们把通胀考虑进来。
Voytek says we have to allow for inflation. 我们要更慷慨一点。
We should be more generous. 那么，你对这样思考关于正义的问题
Then would you be satisfied that this is the right way of 满意吗？
thinking about the question? 我想，不幸的是，现在
I guess, unfortunately, it is for - 需要给出一个数字，我不肯定
there needs to be a number put somewhere, like, I'm not sure 这个数字应该是多少，但我同意
what that number would be, but I do agree that 用数值来衡量生命也是有可能的。
there could possibly be a number put on the human life. 好的，在这里，Voytek不同意Julie的想法
All right, so Voytek says, and here, he disagrees with Julie. Julie说，我们不能用数值来衡量生命
Julie says we can't put a number on human life 来做一个成本效益分析
for the purpose of a cost-benefit analysis. Voytek说，我们不得不这么做，因为我们必须作出某种决定。
Voytek says we have to because we have to make decisions somehow. 其他人怎么想呢？
What do other people think about this? 有没有人准备为这个成本效益分析辩护的？
Is there anyone prepared to defend cost-benefit analysis 是不是数字越准确越好？是吗？请继续。
here as accurate as desirable? Yes? Go ahead. 我认为，如果福特和其他汽车公司
I think that if Ford and other car companies 没有使用成本效益分析，他们最终会歇业
didn't use cost-benefit analysis, they'd eventually go out of business 因为他们无法实现盈利
because they wouldn't be able to be profitable and millions of people 数百万人将无法开车上班，
wouldn't be able to use their cars to get to jobs, 赚钱养活孩子。
to put food on the table, to feed their children. 因此，我认为，如果不用成本效益分析，
So I think that if cost-benefit analysis isn't employed, 在这种情况下，会损害大部人的利益。
the greater good is sacrificed, in this case. 好的，让我补充一下。你叫什么名字？
All right, let me add. What's your name? Raul。
Raul. 劳尔，最近有项研究，关于开车时
Raul, there was recently a study done about cell phone use by a driver 是否使用手机，并且引起一场争论
when people are driving a car, and there was a debate 争论是否应被禁止开车使用手机。
whether that should be banned. 是啊。
Yeah. 因开车使用手机而死去的人
And the figure was that some 2,000 people die as a result 每年约有2000人
of accidents each year using cell phones. 然而，哈佛的风险分析中心
And yet, the cost-benefit analysis which was done by the 做了成本效益分析，发现
Center for Risk Analysis at Harvard found that 如果你看一下允许使用手机所带来的效益
if you look at the benefits of the cell phone use 和因此而失去的性命，它们的价值差不多
and you put some value on the life, it comes out about the same 由于，允许人们使用手机能带来巨大的经济利益
because of the enormous economic benefit of enabling people 人们可以充分利用时间，达成交易，
to take advantage of their time, not waste time, be able to make deals 与朋友交谈等。
and talk to friends and so on while they're driving. 这是不是表明，用金钱来衡量一个人的生命
Doesn't that suggest that it's a mistake to try to put 是错误的？
monetary figures on questions of human life? 嗯，我认为，如果大多数人都想着
Well, I think that if the great majority of people try to 计算出一个最大的效益值，
derive maximum utility out of a service, 例如，使用手机所带来的便利
like using cell phones and the convenience that cell phones provide, 为了得到这些便利，作出一些牺牲是必要的
that sacrifice is necessary for satisfaction to occur. 你是一个十足的功利主义。
You're an outright utilitarian. 是。好吧。
Yes. Okay. 好的，最后一个问题，Raul
All right then, one last question, Raul. - Okay. 我刚才问到Voytek一个问题，这个数字应该是多少
And I put this to Voytek, what dollar figure should 把生命的价值考虑进去，才足以决定要禁止使用手机？
be put on human life to decide whether to ban the use of cell phones? 嗯，我不想给出任意一个数字
Well, I don't want to arbitrarily calculate a figure, 我的意思是，现在，我认为 -
I mean, right now. I think that - 你一定要经过周密地考虑？
You want to take it under advisement? 是的，我要经过周密地考虑。
Yeah, I'll take it under advisement. 但如果粗略地计算，会是多少呢？如果是2,300人死亡。好。
But what, roughly speaking, would it be? You got 2,300 deaths. - Okay. 你要给每个生命赋予一个值，才能知道
You got to assign a dollar value to know whether you want 是否足以禁止开车时使用手机。 好的。
to prevent those deaths by banning the use of cell phones in cars. - Okay. 所以，你预感是多少？100万？
So what would your hunch be? How much? A million? 200万？ 200万是Voytek给的数字。 - 是啊。
Two million? Two million was Voytek's figure. - Yeah. 是不是差不多了？ - 也许是100万
Is that about right? - Maybe a million. 100万？ - 是啊。
A million? - Yeah. 很好。谢谢。 好吧。
You know, that's good. Thank you. -Okay. 这几天，出现了一些争议，
So, these are some of the controversies that arise these days 关于成本效益分析的争议，尤其是涉及到
from cost-benefit analysis, especially those that involve placing a 怎么衡量价值，最后加起来得到个数值
dollar value on everything to be added up. 那么，现在我想来谈谈那些的反对意见
Well, now I want to turn to your objections, 你不一定是反对成本效益分析
to your objections not necessarily to cost-benefit analysis specifically, 因为这只是功利主义在实际生活中的一个版本而已
because that's just one version of the utilitarian logic in practice today, 你可以，思考功利主义的整个理论
but to the theory as a whole, to the idea that the right thing to do, 政策和法律是建立在效用最大化的原则上
the just basis for policy and law is to maximize utility. 有多少人不同意功利主义，关于立法
How many disagree with the utilitarian approach to law 和公众利益的原则？
and to the common good? 有多少人同意？
How many agree with it? 同意的人更多。
So more agree than disagree. 因此，让我们听听那些批评的声音。
So let's hear from the critics. Yes? 我觉得它主要的问题在于，我觉得你不能因为
My main issue with it is that I feel like you can't say 少数人的利益和需求
that just because someone's in the minority, what they want 就比大多数的利益，价值要小
and need is less valuable than someone who is in the majority. 所以，我想，认为谋求最多人、最大化的效益
So I guess I have an issue with the idea that the greatest good 这个想法有问题
for the greatest number is okay because there are still - 那些占少数的人怎么办？
what about people who are in the lesser number? 这对他们不公平。
Like, it's not fair to them. 他们没有任何发言权。
They didn't have any say in where they wanted to be. 好的。这是一个有趣的批判。
All right. That's an interesting objection. 你担心的是那些占少数的人
You're worried about the effect on the minority. 是。
Yes. 你叫什么名字，顺便说一句？
What's your name, by the way? Anna。
Anna. 谁能给Anna一个回应？
Who has an answer to Anna's worry about the effect on the minority? 你会对Anna怎么说？
What do you say to Anna? 嗯，她说，少数派较少得到重视。
Um, she said that the minority is valued less. 我不这样认为，就个人而言，
I don't think that's the case because individually, 少数人和大多数人一样。
the minority's value is just the same as the individual of the majority. 只是它们人数多一点而已。
It's just that the numbers outweigh the minority. 我的意思是在某一点，你必须作出决定
And I mean, at a certain point, you have to make a decision 对不起啊，那些占少数的人。
and I'm sorry for the minority but sometimes, 有些时候，这样是为了大多数人的利益。
it's for the general, for the greater good. 为了多数人的利益。Anna，你怎么说？
For the greater good. Anna, what do you say? 你叫什么名字？
What's your name? 杨达。
Yang-Da. 你怎么回应杨达？
What do you say to Yang-Da? 杨达说，你不得不把所有人的利益加起来
Yang-Da says you just have to add up people's preferences 而且我们也把少数派的利益也加进去
and those in the minority do have their preferences weighed. 你能举一个例子吗
Can you give an example of the kind of thing 当你说，你对功利主义的担心
you're worried about when you say you're worried about utilitarianism 因为忽略了对少数人的尊重？
violating the concern or respect due the minority? 举一个例子。
And give an example. 好吧。之前我们已经讨论过的案件，
Okay. So, well, with any of the cases that we've talked about, 例如，那个沉船的案件，那个被吃掉的男孩
like for the shipwreck one, I think the boy who was eaten 他和其他人有同等的活着的权利
still had as much of a right to live as the other people 只是因为他是少数派，
and just because he was the minority in that case, 他活下去的机会比其他人少了（他当时病了）
the one who maybe had less of a chance to keep living, 这并不意味着，其他人就能
that doesn't mean that the others automatically 有权吃他的肉，
have a right to eat him just because it would give a 让更大人生存下去。
greater amount of people a chance to live. 因此，也许少数派也有一定的权利，
So there may be certain rights that the minority members have, 不应该拿他们的个人利益，来换取多数人的利益
that the individual has that shouldn't be traded off for the sake of utility? 是。
Yes. 是的，Anna？下面将是对你的想法的一个检验。
Yes, Anna? You know, this would be a test for you. 早在古罗马，他们把基督徒丢在斗兽场
Back in Ancient Rome, they threw Christians to the lions 的狮子群里。
in the Colosseum for sport. 你觉得，功利主义会如何计算
If you think how the utilitarian calculus would go, 是的，基督教被抛进狮子群里，承受着巨大的痛苦
yes, the Christian thrown to the lions suffers enormous excruciating pain. 但看看罗马人的狂喜！
But look at the collective ecstasy of the Romans! 杨达。
Yang-Da. 那么，在那个年代..我不..如果在现代这个年代，
Well, in that time, I don't -- if -- in modern day of time, 给那些围观的人，所得到的快乐
to value the -- to give a number to the happiness 赋予一个价值，我不认为，
given to the people watching, I don't think any, like, 政策制定者会说，一个人的痛苦
policymaker would say the pain of one person, of the suffering 一个人会比，我的意思是，相比较而言
of one person is much, much -- is, I mean, in comparison 获得的快乐要多，也就是-
to the happiness gained, it's - 不，如果有足够多的罗马人
No, but you have to admit that if there were enough Romans 他们都开心发狂，它甚至会超过了
delirious enough with happiness, it would outweigh even the 这些被仍在狮子群里的基督徒所忍受的惨痛
most excruciating pain of a handful of Christians thrown to the lion. 因此，在这里，我们有两种不同的反对功利主义的意见。
So we really have here two different objections to utilitarianism. 其中一种，考虑到是否要充分尊重
One has to do with whether utilitarianism adequately respects 个人或少数人的权利，而另一个种意见
individual rights or minority rights, and the other has to do with 考虑到怎么把整体的利益加起来。
the whole idea of aggregating utility or preferences or values. 是否有可能，把所有利益加起来，换算成美元价值？
Is it possible to aggregate all values to translate them into dollar terms? 在20世纪30年代，有个心理学家
There was, in the 1930s, a psychologist who tried 试图解决第二个问题。
to address this second question. 他试图证明功利主义的假设
He tried to prove what utilitarianism assumes, 我们可以将所有商品、价值、人文关怀
that it is possible to translate all goods, all values, 转换成一个统一的度量
all human concerns into a single uniform measure, 他给那些领取救济的年轻人，做了个调查
and he did this by conducting a survey of young recipients of relief, 这是在20世纪30年代，他问这些年轻人，
this was in the 1930s, and he asked them, 他列了一个不愉快体验的清单，然后他问他们，
he gave them a list of unpleasant experiences and he asked them, “付多少钱，你会愿意忍受这些体验？”
"How much would you have to be paid to undergo the following experiences?" 他一直跟踪调查。
and he kept track. 举例来说，你愿意付多少钱
For example, how much would you have to be paid 来拔掉你的一颗上门牙？
to have one upper front tooth pulled out? 或者，你愿意支付多少钱来换取你的一个小脚趾？
Or how much would you have to be paid to have one little toe cut off? 或者吞下一只6英寸长的活蚯蚓？
Or to eat a live earthworm six inches long? 或住在堪萨斯州的一个农场来度过你的余生？
Or to live the rest of your life on a farm in Kansas? 或者用亲手把一只流浪猫弄到窒息而死？
Or to choke a stray cat to death with your bare hands? 你猜这个清单上，最昂贵的是哪一条？
Now, what do you suppose was the most expensive item on that list? - Kansas! 堪萨斯？
Kansas? 是的，是堪萨斯州。
You're right, it was Kansas. 如果要他们选择住在堪萨斯州，别人要支付他们
For Kansas, people said they'd have to pay them - 30万美元。
they have to be paid $300,000. 你认为，接下来哪一条最贵？
What do you think was the next most expensive? 不是猫。
Not the cat. 也不是拔掉一颗牙。
Not the tooth. 不是切掉脚趾。
Not the toe. 是吞下蚯蚓！
The worm! 你得支付他们10万美元，他们才肯吞下蚯蚓
People said you'd have to pay them $100,000 to eat the worm. 你认为，哪条是最便宜？
What do you think was the least expensive item? 不是猫。
Not the cat. 是拔牙。
The tooth. 在大萧条时期，人们还是愿意
During the Depression, people were willing to have their 拔掉一颗牙来换取4,500元。
tooth pulled for only $4,500. 什么？
What? 下面是桑代克(著名的心理学家）从这个研究得出的结论
Now, here's what Thorndike concluded from his study. 任何一种欲望只要存在，就必须以一定的程度存在着
Any want or a satisfaction which exists exists in some amount 因此，它们都是可以衡量的。
and is therefore measurable. 狗、猫或一只鸡的生命
The life of a dog or a cat or a chicken consists of appetites, 由食欲、渴望、欲望、满足来组成。
cravings, desires, and their gratifications. 人类也是如此，虽然人类的食欲
So does the life of human beings, though the appetites 和欲望更加复杂。
and desires are more complicated. 你怎么看桑代克的研究？
But what about Thorndike's study? 它是否支持边沁的理论，
Does it support Bentham's idea that all goods, 所有的商品、价值都用一个统一的价值来衡量？
all values can be captured according to a single uniform measure of value? 抑或是，这个列着各式荒诞行为的清单
Or does the preposterous character of those different items on the list 提出了相反的结论，
suggest the opposite conclusion that maybe, 不论是生命、堪萨斯或蠕虫时，
whether we're talking about life or Kansas or the worm, 也许很多我们珍视的事情是不能
maybe the things we value and cherish can't be captured 用某种统一的价值来换取？
according to a single uniform measure of value? 如果是不能的话，结果是怎样
And if they can't, what are the consequences 功利主义的道德理论，结果会是怎样？
for the utilitarian theory of morality? 我们将在下一次继续讨论这个问题。
That's a question we'll continue with next time. 上一次，我们开始考虑一些
Last time, we began to consider some objections to 反对边沁的功利主义的意见。
Jeremy Bentham's version of utilitarianism. 人们提出了两种反对意见。
People raised two objections in the discussion we had. 首先是反对，功利主义
The first was the objection, the claim that utilitarianism, 只考虑最大多数人的最大效益
by concerning itself with the greatest good for the greatest number, 没有充分尊重个人的权利。
fails adequately to respect individual rights. 今天，我们讨论有关酷刑和恐怖主义。
Today, we have debates about torture and terrorism. 假设一个恐怖嫌疑人，在9月10日被捕
Suppose a suspected terrorist was apprehended on September 10th 你有理由相信，从疑犯身上能得到关于
and you had reason to believe that the suspect had crucial information 一起将会让3000人遇害的恐怖袭击的重要信息
about an impending terrorist attack that would kill over 3,000 people 但你现在还得不到这些信息。
and you couldn't extract the information. 为了获取信息，用酷刑来折磨嫌疑人是否合理
Would it be just to torture the suspect to get the information 或者你会说不可以，我们绝对要
or do you say no, there is a categorical moral duty 尊重个人的权利？
of respect for individual rights? 从某种意义上说，我们又回到我们一开始的问题
In a way, we're back to the questions we started with 关于Charlie Carson的器官移植。
about Charlie Carson organ transplant. 这是第一个问题。
So that's the first issue. 而且你们还记得，我们考虑了一些
And you remember, we considered some examples 成本效益分析的例子，但很多人对这样做不满
of cost-benefit analysis, but a lot of people were unhappy 当它用金钱
with cost-benefit analysis when it came to placing 来衡量人们的生命。
a dollar value on human life. 因此，这引出了第二种反对的意见。
And so that led us to the second objection. 我们质疑：是否有可能将所有东西都转化成
It questioned whether it's possible to translate all values into 一个统一的价值尺度。
a single uniform measure of value. 换句话说，它要求所有的东西是可度量、相称的。
It asks, in other words, whether all values are commensurable. 让我再举另外一个例子。
Let me give you one other example of an experience. 这实际上是一个真实的故事。
This actually is a true story. 它来源于个人的经历
It comes from personal experience that raises a question 它让我们思考，是否能无损失地将所有东西
at least about whether all values can be translated without loss 完全转换成功利主义里所说的效益。
into utilitarian terms. 几年前，当我还是一名研究生，
Some years ago, when I was a graduate student, 我当时在英国牛津，我们有男子和女子学院。
I was at Oxford in England and they had men's and women's colleges. 男女还是分开，而女子学院
They weren't yet mixed and the women's colleges 规定不准男生夜访。
had rules against overnight male guests. 到了70年代，这些规定很少得到执行
By the 1970s, these rules were rarely enforced and easily violated, 而且很轻易就违反了，有人这样告诉我
or so I was told. 到70年代末，当我在那里学习时
By the late 1970s, when I was there, 大家放松了这些规定，这些规定也成为了争论的话题
pressure grew to relax these rules and it became the subject of debate 在St. Anne's学院的教师当中，
among the faculty at St. Anne's College, St. Anne's学院也是一所女子学院
which was one of these all-women's colleges. 学院里年级较大的老师都比较传统
The older women on the faculty were traditionalists. 他们反对改变传统。
They were opposed to change unconventional moral grounds. 然而时代变了，他们也给不出一个合理的
But times have changed and they were embarrassed 反对的理由，所以他们
to give the true grounds for their objection and so they translated 用功利主义的论述来作为他们的论点。
their arguments into utilitarian terms. “如果男生在女生宿舍过夜”，他们称
"If men stay overnight", they argued, “学院的支出将会增加。”
"the costs to the college will increase." “怎么个增加法？”你可能想知道。
"How?" you might wonder. “嗯，他们要洗澡
"Well, they'll want to take baths 而且会消耗很多热水，“他们说。
and that'll use up hot water," they said. 此外，他们认为，
Furthermore, they argued, “我们将不得不，更加频繁地更换床垫。”
"We'll have to replace the mattresses more often." 支持改革的人，作出回应
The reformers met these arguments by adopting the following compromise. 每个女生每周，最多只能让男生夜访3次
Each woman could have a maximum of three overnight male guests each week. 他们没有明说，是同一个人或三个不同的人
They didn't say whether it had to be the same one or three different 这是支持改革者作出的妥协，
provided, and this was the compromise, 访客得为大学支付50便士的费用。
provided the guest paid 50 pence to defray the cost to the college. 第二天，全国的报纸头条就写着
The next day, the national headline in the national newspaper read, “St. Anne女生，50便士一晚。”
"St. Anne's Girls, 50 Pence A Night." 将所有东西换算成价值的困难之处
Another illustration of the difficulty of translating all values, 在这种情况下，凭借某种方法，来转换成功利主义的效益。
in this case, a certain idea of virtue, into utilitarian terms. 这些都阐述了，第二种反对功利主义的意见
So, that's all to illustrate the second objection to utilitarianism, 至少说明了一部分。关于功利主义
at least the part of that objection, that questions whether utilitarianism 是否能将所有东西的价值统一化的假设
is right to assume that we can assume the uniformity of value, 将所有价值、道德因素都同等地
the commensurability of all values and translate all moral considerations 转换成美元或金钱。
into dollars or money. 但这也有另外一个顾虑
But there is a second aspect to this worry about 怎么将价值叠加起来
aggregating values and preferences. 为什么我们要把所有人的利益叠加起来
Why should we weigh all preferences that people have without assessing 而没有考量到，哪些是好的，哪些是坏的？
whether they're good preferences or bad preferences? 我们是否应该区分较高层次的快乐，和低级快乐？
Shouldn't we distinguish between higher pleasures and lower pleasures? 现在，其中一个考虑点是，
Now, part of the appeal of not making any qualitative distinctions 是否不应区分开，人们价值好坏的问题，
about the worth of people's preferences, 另外一点是，它是公正和平等的
part of the appeal is that it is nonjudgmental and egalitarian. 边沁的功利主义认为，每个人的喜好都要考虑
The Benthamite utilitarian says everybody's preferences count 不管它们是什么，
and they count regardless of what people want, 不管是什么让不同的人快乐起来。
regardless of what makes different people happy. 对于边沁来说，所有的事情
For Bentham, all that matters, you'll remember, 都只是快乐或痛苦的强度大小、持续时间长短问题
are the intensity and the duration of a pleasure or pain. 所谓的“更高级的快乐，或更崇高的美德”
The so-called "higher pleasures or nobler virtues" 对于边沁来说
are simply those, according to Bentham, 都只是更强、更持久的快乐而已
that produce stronger, longer pleasure. 用一个很有名短语来形容就是
Yet a famous phrase to express this idea, 快乐不分多少，图钉跟诗一样好。
the quantity of pleasure being equal, pushpin is as good as poetry. 图钉是什么？
What was pushpin? 图钉是孩子玩的一种游戏，如tiddlywinks。
It was some kind of a child's game, like tiddlywinks. “图钉跟诗一样好”，边沁说。
"Pushpin is as good as poetry", Bentham says. 我认为这种想法的背后，
And lying behind this idea, I think, is the claim, the intuition, 它是一个假定，判断谁的快乐
that it's a presumption to judge whose pleasures 在本质上是更高级、更有价值，或更好。
are intrinsically higher or worthier or better. 有趣的是，如果你拒绝去做这一区分
And there is something attractive in this refusal to judge. 有些人喜欢莫扎特，有些人喜欢麦当娜
After all, some people like Mozart, others Madonna. 有些人喜欢芭蕾，其他人喜欢保龄球
Some people like ballet, others bowling. 边沁也许争辩说，
Who's to say, a Benthamite might argue, 谁敢说，这些快乐中，有些人的快乐更高级
who is to say which of these pleasures, whose pleasures are higher, 更有价值的，更高尚呢？
worthier, nobler than others? 但拒绝做定性的区分，是否就是正确的呢？
But is that right, this refusal to make qualitative distinctions? 我们能否完全不考虑
Can we altogether dispense with the idea that 我们在某些事情上的快乐，比其他更好或更有价值呢？
certain things we take pleasure in are better or worthier than others? 回想起之前在罗马斗兽场的例子。
Think back to the case of the Romans in the Colosseum. 这一做法困扰人们的地方在于
One thing that troubled people about that practice is that it seemed 它似乎侵犯了这些基督教徒的权利。
to violate the rights of the Christian. 另一个反对这一做法的
Another way of objection to what's going on there 就是这些罗马人在这场血腥中获得的快乐
is that the pleasure that the Romans take in this bloody spectacle, 这种快乐，是可耻的、堕落的、有辱人格的快乐
should that pleasure, which is abased, kind of corrupt, degrading pleasure, 是否应该，对某些快乐加以评价和权衡
should that even be valorized or weighed in deciding 在决定什么是大众的利益时？
what the general welfare is? 这是反对边沁的功利主义的一些意见
So here are the objections to Bentham's utilitarianism 现在，我们来看看，试图回应这些反对意见的人
and now, we turn to someone who tried to respond to those objections, 近代的功利主义者，约翰·密尔。
a latter-day utilitarian, John Stuart Mill. 现在，我们要看看约翰·密尔
So what we need to examine now is whether John Stuart Mill 给出什么令人信服的辩解。
had a convincing reply to these objections to utilitarianism. 约翰·密尔出生于1806年。
John Stuart Mill was born in 1806. 他的父亲，詹姆斯·密尔是边沁的徒弟
His father, James Mill, was a disciple of Bentham's, 詹姆士穆勒正着手给他的儿子
and James Mill set about giving his son, John Stuart Mill, 树立榜样。
a model education. 他3岁是会希腊语，8岁会拉丁文，
He knew Greek at the age of three, Latin at eight, 10岁时，他写了《罗马法史》
and age 10, he wrote "A History of Roman Law." 20岁时，他精神崩溃。
At age 20, he had a nervous breakdown. 这让他抑郁了5年，但在25岁，
This left him in a depression for five years, but at age 25, 让他走出抑郁
what helped lift him out of this depression 是他遇上了Harriet Taylor。
is that he met Harriet Taylor. 他们后来结了婚，一直过得很幸福，
She and Mill got married, they lived happily ever after, 正是在她的影响下，约翰·密尔
and it was under her influence that John Stuart Mill 试图把功利主义变得人性化
tried to humanize utilitarianism. 密尔试图
What Mill tried to do was to see whether the 完善功利主义
utilitarian calculus could be enlarged and modified to 使其融进人文关怀
accommodate humanitarian concerns, like the concern to 例如考虑到尊重个人权利
respect individual rights, and also to address the distinction 区分了高级和低级的乐趣
between higher and lower pleasures. 1859年，密尔写了一本关于自由的有名的书
In 1859, Mill wrote a famous book on liberty, 书中的主要论点是
the main point of which was the importance 维护个人和少数人的权利的重要性
of defending individual rights and minority rights, 1861年，当他接近生命的终点时，
and in 1861, toward the end of his life, 他写下了我们这门课的其中一本书，《功利主义》
he wrote the book we read as part of this course, "Utilitarianism." 他清楚地表明，效用是道德的唯一标准，
He makes it clear that utility is the only standard of morality, 所以他并没有违背边沁的假设。
in his view, so he's not challenging Bentham's premise. 而是坚定了他的观点。
He's affirming it. 他说，很明确地说：“证明某样东西是更令人喜欢
He says very explicitly, "The sole evidence it is possible 唯一证据就是人们都喜欢它”
to produce that anything is desirable is that people actually do desire it." 他留下了一个想法，我们真实存在的欲望
So he stays with the idea that our de facto actual empirical desires 是道德判断的唯一基础。
are the only basis for moral judgment. 但在第二章，第8页，
But then, page eight, also in chapter two, 他认为，功利主义是可以
he argues that it is possible for a utilitarian to distinguish 区分高级或低级的乐趣。
higher from lower pleasures. 现在，你们谁看过密尔的文章
Now, for those of you who have read Mill already, 根据他的理论，是怎么样作出这种区分？
how, according to him, is it possible to draw that distinction? 功利主义是怎样从定性上把高级的快乐
How can a utilitarian distinguish qualitatively higher pleasures 从低级的、可耻的、无意义的快乐区分出来？是的？
from lesser ones, base ones, unworthy ones? Yes? 如果你尝试过这两者，你会更喜欢更高级的
If you've tried both of them and you prefer the higher one, 很自然地，一直地
naturally, always. 很好。
That's great. That's right. 你叫什么名字？ - 约翰。
What's your name? - John. 就像约翰指出的，密尔说，我们是这样给它定性的：
So as John points out, Mill says here's the test. 既然我们不能走出实际的愿望，
Since we can't step outside actual desires, 因为它们会违反功利主义的假设，
actual preferences that would violate utilitarian premises, 检验一种乐趣是高级还是低级
the only test of whether a pleasure is higher or lower 需要你把这两种乐趣都体验过之后，更偏爱其中一种
is whether someone who has experienced both would prefer it. 在第二章，我们看到了
And here, in chapter two, we see the passage where 密尔指出来，约翰刚才所说的。
Mill makes the point that John just described. “两种乐趣之中，如果其中一种是
"Of two pleasures, if there be one to which 所有（或几乎所有）体验过这两者之后，还偏爱其中一种
all or almost all who have experience of both give a decided preference, 不管任何的道义责任，你还喜欢它 -
irrespective of any feeling of moral obligation to prefer it -- 换句话说，没有外部独立的标准
in other words, no outside, no independent standard -- then, 它是在比较之下，我们更喜欢的那一者。“
that is the more desirable pleasure." 大家对这种论点怎么看？
What do people think about that argument? 是否成功了？
Does it succeed? 有多少人认为，它成功地
How many think that it does succeed of arguing 在功利主义的框架中
within utilitarian terms for a distinction between 成功地区分了高级和低级的快乐？
higher and lower pleasures? 有多少人觉得这并没有成功？
How many think it doesn't succeed? 我想听听你的理由。
I want to hear your reasons. 但是，在我们给出我们的理由之前
But before we give the reasons 让我们按照密尔的说法，做一个实验
let's do an experiment of Mill's claim. 我们将会观看
In order to do this experiment, we're going to look at 三个娱乐的短片。
three short excerpts of popular entertainment. 第一个是一段哈姆雷特的独白。
The first one is a Hamlet soliloquy. 接着是两个其他方面的体验。
It'll be followed by two other experiences. 看看你是怎么想的
See what you think. 人类是一件多么了不起的作品！，如何高尚的理由，
What a piece of work is a man! How noble in reason! 能力如此无穷, 动作多么迅速
How infinite in faculties,In form and moving 动若天使，令人赞叹
how express and admirable, in action how like an angel, 思若上帝！
in apprehension how like a god! 世界之美，万物之灵
The beauty of the world, the paragon of animals - 可是，对于我，这点泥土里提炼出来的玩意儿算得了什么呢？
and yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust? 人类不能让我愉悦（下一句：不，女人也不行。 ）
Man delights not me.（no, nor woman neither. ） 想像这样一个世界里，你最大的担忧变成现实。
Imagine a world where your greatest fears become reality. 啊！他们正在吞噬着我！
Ahh! They're biting me! 每场演出，6名来自全国各地的参赛者
Each show, six contestants from around the country 表扬三个特技， 刀光剑影
battle each other in three extreme stunts. 呜！
Ow! 这些特技专门用来为难这些参赛者的
These stunts are designed to challenge the contestants 既是身体上的，也是心理上的
both physically and mentally. 6名选手，3项特技，1个赢家。
Six contestants, three stunts, one winner. 是！ Whooo！
Yes! Whooo! 《谁敢来挑战》
Fear Factor. 你好diddily-ho，pedal-to-the-metal-o-philes。
Hi-diddily-ho, pedal-to-the-metal-o-philes. Flanders，你是什么时候开始喜欢酷的东西？
Flanders, since when do you like anything cool? 嗯，我不在乎速度，但我无法得到满足
Well, I don't care for the speed but I can't get enough 这一安全装置。头盔，侧倾杆，警告标志...
of that safety gear. Helmets, roll bars, caution flags... 我喜欢新鲜的空气...
I like the fresh air... 看着内场的穷人。
and looking at the poor people in the infield. Dang，Cletus，为什么你把车停在我父母的车旁边？
Dang, Cletus, why'd you have to park by my parents? 亲爱的，他们是我的父母了。
Now, Honey, they's my parents too. 我甚至不用问你最喜欢哪一种。
I don't even have to ask which one you liked most. Simpsons，有多少人最喜欢Simpsons？
The Simpsons, how many liked The Simpsons most? 有多少会选莎士比亚？
How many Shakespeare? 《谁敢来挑战》呢？
What about Fear Factor? 有谁会选《谁敢来挑战》？
How many preferred Fear Factor? 真的吗？
Really? 超过半数的人更喜欢Simpsons，而不是莎士比亚
People overwhelmingly like The Simpsons better than Shakespeare. 好，现在，让我们看看投票结果
All right, now, let's take the other part of the poll, 这一次是选最开心的经历
which is the highest experience or pleasure. 有多少人选择莎士比亚？
How many say Shakespeare? 有多少人选《谁敢来挑战》？
How many say Fear Factor? 不，你不是认真的。真的吗？什么？
No, you can't be serious. Really? What? 好的，请继续。你可以说一下。
All right, go ahead. You can say it. 我发现它是最有趣的。
I found that one the most entertaining. 我知道，但你认为它是最有价值的，
I know, but which do you think was the worthiest, 最高贵的体验？
the noblest experience? 我知道，你会觉得它最有趣。
I know you found it the most entertaining. 如果一样东西是好的，因为它能带来快乐
If something is good just because it is pleasurable, 那样的话，你就不用在意觉得好的
what does it matter whether you have sort of an 别人是否会觉得不好？
abstract idea of whether it is good by someone else's sense or not? 好吧，你回到边沁。
All right, so you come down in the straight Benthamite side. 谁来做判断，我们判断的理由是什么，
Who is to judge and why should we judge, 除了把真实的喜好记下来，并叠加起来？
apart from just registering and aggregating de facto preference? 好的。你叫什么名字？
All right, that's fair enough. And what's your name? Nate，好的。
Nate, okay, fair enough. 好的，怎么很多人认为Simpsons
All right, so how many think The Simpsons is actually, 除了因为你喜欢它，它实际上也是一种高级的体验呢？
apart from liking it, is actually the higher experience? 而且是比莎士比亚高呢？
Higher than Shakespeare? 好吧，让我们再看看多少人投莎士比亚。
All right, let's see the vote for Shakespeare again. 多少人认为莎士比亚是高级的呢？
How many think Shakespeare is higher? 好的。那么，理由是什么？
All right. So why is it -- ideally, 我想听听，有谁是认为
I'd like to hear from someone, is there someone who thinks 莎士比亚是最高级的，尽管你也喜欢看Simpsons？
Shakespeare is highest but who preferred watching The Simpsons? 是的？
Yes? 我想，只是坐着看Simpsons，
Like, I guess just sitting and watching The Simpsons, 它是有趣的，因为给我们带来了欢笑
it's entertaining because they make jokes and they make us laugh. 但是，有人告诉我们，莎士比亚是伟大的作家。
But like, someone has to tell us that Shakespeare was this great writer. 我们必须要学会如何读他，如何理解他。
We had to be taught how to read him, how to understand him. 我们必须要学习Rembrandt（一位艺术家），
We had to be taught how to kind of take in Rembrandt, 学习如何分析的一幅油画。
how to analyze a painting. 你叫什么名字？
But let me -- what's your name? Anisha。
Anisha. Anisha，当有人告诉你说，莎士比亚是更好的 -
Anisha, when you say someone told you that Shakespeare is better -- 对。
Right. 您是否就深信不疑呢？
Are you accepting it on blind faith? 你选了莎士比亚
You voted that Shakespeare is higher 不仅是因为大众告诉你，
only because the culture tells you that 或者教师告诉你，还是你的确这样认同？
or teachers tell you that or do you actually agree with that yourself? 哦，在这个意义上，我不觉得会是莎士比亚
Well, in the sense that Shakespeare no, 但之前你提到了Rembrandt的例子。
but earlier you made an example of Rembrandt. 我觉得，看漫画时我更享受
I feel like I would enjoy reading a comic book 而不是看Rembrandt的分析
more than I would enjoy kind of analyzing Rembrandt 因为有人告诉我，这是伟大的 - 是的。
because someone told me it was great, you know. - Right. 因此似乎就是这样子，你的意思是
So some of this seems to be, you're suggesting, 一种文化的约定、压力。
a kind of a cultural convention and pressure. 我们被告知什么书、什么样的艺术作品是伟大的。
We're told what books, what works of art are great. - Right. 还有谁？
Who else? 是的？
Yes? 虽然我喜欢看Simpsons
Although I enjoyed watching The Simpsons more 但在这一刻，讨论到正义时，如果我要选择
in this particular moment, in justice, if I were to spend 在这3种不同的短片里，选择一种来度过我的余生
the rest of my life considering the three different video clips shown, 我不选择看Simpsons来度过我的余生
I would not want to spend that remainder of my life 考虑到后两个短片。
considering the latter two clips. 我想，我会获得更多的乐趣
I think I would derive more pleasure from being able to branch out in my 从这更深层次的愉悦和思考之中
own mind sort of considering more deep pleasures, more deep thoughts. 告诉我你的名字。
And tell me your name. 乔。
Joe. 乔，因此，如果你将在一个农场度过你的余生
Joe, so if you had to spend the rest of your life on a farm 在堪萨斯州，只有莎士比亚
in Kansas with only Shakespeare or the collected episodes 或者Simpsons的短片，你会倾向于莎士比亚？
of The Simpsons, you would prefer Shakespeare? 你从密尔的这个测试中，大概能得出什么结论
What do you conclude from that about John Stuart Mill's test that the test 检验它是否是高级的，就是体验过两者之后选择其一？
of a higher pleasure is whether people who have experienced both prefer it? 我可以举出另外一个简单的例子吗？
Can I cite another example briefly? 好啊。
Yeah. 去年的神经生物学，告诉我们
In Neurobiology last year, we were told of a rat 测试小白鼠大脑的某个部位
who was tested a particular center in the brain where the rat was able 这个区能刺激大脑，持续地让大脑兴奋
to stimulate his brain and caused itself intense pleasure repeatedly. 小白鼠不吃不喝，直到死亡。
The rat did not eat or drink until it died. 很显然，小白鼠体验了强烈的快感
So the rat was clearly experiencing intense pleasure. 现在，如果你问我，我是否愿意体验
Now, if you ask me right now if I would rather experience 这种强烈的快感，或一生都体验着高级的快乐
intense pleasure or have a full lifetime of higher pleasure, 我会觉得这种强烈的快乐是低级的
I would consider intense pleasure to be low pleasure. 虽然我会很享受强烈的快感，但
I would right now enjoy intense pleasure but - 是的，我会的。
-- yes, I would. 我当然会。
I certainly would. 不过，如果是一生，我想，我觉得几乎大多数人都会同意，
But over a lifetime, I think I would think almost a complete majority here would agree that they would rather 大多数人会同意，他们宁愿选择
a complete majority here would agree that they would rather 一个具更高级的乐趣，而不是像小白鼠强烈的、
be a human with higher pleasure than be that rat with intense pleasure 而又短暂的快感
for a momentary period of time. 在回答你的问题前，我认为这证明了 -
Now, in answer to your question, I think this proves that - 或者我不会说“证明”。
or I won't say "proves." 我认为，密尔的理论，结论是
I think the conclusion is that Mill's theory that when a majority 当大多数人被问道，他们愿意做什么时
of people are asked what they would rather do, 他们会回答，他们选择更高级的乐趣。
they will answer that they would rather engage in a higher pleasure. 那么，你认为，这支持密尔的观点？
So you think that this support Mill's you think Mill is onto something here? 是的。
I do. 好的，是否有人不同意乔的观点
All right, Is there anyone who disagrees with Joe and who thinks 认为我们的实验驳倒了密尔的测试，
that our experiment disproves Mill's test, 认为并没有一种适当的方式
shows that that's not an adequate way, that you can't distinguish 在功利主义的框架内，区分出更高级的快乐？
higher pleasures within the utilitarian framework? 是吗？
Yes? 如果它是好是坏，就是因为人们是否跟喜欢它
If whatever is good is truly just whatever people prefer, 它的好坏是相对的，并没有客观的定义，
it's truly relative and there's no objective definition, 那么，就会有些人更喜欢Simpsons。
then there will be some society where people prefer Simpsons more. 任何人都可以欣赏Simpsons，但我认为
Anyone can appreciate The Simpsons but I think it does take education 我们需要经过学习，才能欣赏莎士比亚。
to appreciate Shakespeare as much. 好的，你说需要学习
All right, you're saying it takes education 才能欣赏真正更高级的事情。
to appreciate higher true things. 密尔观点是，更高级的快乐确实需要
Mill's point is that the higher pleasures do require 经过培养、欣赏和教育。
cultivation and appreciation and education. 他不否认这点。
He doesn't dispute that. 但是，一旦被培养和教育，人们将会看到，
But once having been cultivated and educated, people will see, 不但可以看到高级和低级的快乐不同，
not only see the difference between higher and lower pleasures, 而且，事实上人们会选择更高级的，而非低级的
but will actually prefer the higher to the lower. 你能找到约翰密尔的一段很著名的话
You find this famous passage from John Stuart Mill. “宁可像人类那样饥渴，也不要像猪一样饱足
"It is better to be a human being dissatisfied than a pig satisfied; 宁可像让苏格拉底饿着，也不要把一个傻瓜喂饱。
better to be Socrates dissatisfied than a fool satisfied. 而且，如果傻瓜或猪有不同的意见，
And if the fool, or the pig, are of a different opinion, 这是因为他们只看到自己的那一面。“
it is because they only know their side of the question." 所以在这里，你试图去区分
So here, you have an attempt to distinguish 高级和低级的乐趣。
higher from lower pleasures. 因此，是去艺术博物馆，还是呆在沙发上
So going to an art museum or being a couch potato 喝着啤酒，在家看电视。
and swilling beer, watching television at home. 有时候，密尔也认同，我们可能会屈从于诱惑
Sometimes, Mill agrees, we might succumb to the temptation 选择了后者，选择了做电视迷 （呆在沙发上）
to do the latter, to be couch potatoes. 但即使在我们出于怠惰而这样做的时候，
But even when we do that out of indolence and sloth, 我们知道，我们在博物馆里凝视着Rembrandts的作品时
we know that the pleasure we get gazing at Rembrandts in the museum 那是更高级的乐趣，因为我们已经体验过这两种乐趣
is actually higher because we've experienced both, 看Rembrandts的作品是更高级的享受
and it is a higher pleasure gazing at Rembrandts 因为它运用到了人类更高级的能力。
because it engages our higher human faculties. 密尔是怎样回答有关个人权利的争议的呢？
What about Mill's attempt to reply to the objection about individual rights? 从某种意义上说，他使用了相同的论点，
In a way, he uses the same kind of argument, 第五章有讲到。
and this comes out in chapter five. 他说：“我反对任何主张假想出一个
He says, "I dispute the pretensions of any theory which sets up 关于正义的标准，而不是建立在效用的基础上”
an imaginary standard of justice not grounded on utility." 尽管如此，他认为正义是建立在效益上
But still, he considers justice grounded on utility to be what he calls 被他称作“是主要的、无可比拟、最神圣的
"the chief part and incomparably, the most sacred 所有道德的约束力”
and binding part of all morality." 因此，公正是更高级的，个人权利是优先的，
So justice is higher, individual rights are privileged, 这并不是从功利主义的假设引申出来的
but not for reasons that depart from utilitarian assumptions. 正义是一种名义，为了一定的道德准则
Justice is a name, for certain moral requirements, 其中，集体的效益是更高级的
which, regarded collectively, stand higher in the scale 社会利益是更重要的
of social utility and are, therefore, of more paramount 比其他任何义务都高级。
obligation than any others. 因此，正义，它是神圣的。
So justice, it is sacred. 这是先决的。它是优先的。
It's prior. It's privileged. 它不是一件容易兑换的东西
It isn't something that can easily be traded off against lesser things. 但密尔声称，最终都归结于功利主义
But the reason is ultimately, Mill claims, a utilitarian reason 一旦你考虑到人类长远的利益，
once you consider the long-run interests of humankind, 我们全人类的进步。
of all of us as progressive beings. 如果我们服从正义，如果我们尊重权利，
If we do justice and if we respect rights, 长远来说，整个社会的生活会有所改善
society as a whole will be better off in the long run. 这个观点有说服力吗？或者说，尽管密尔没有表面承认
Well, is that convincing or is Mill actually, without admitting it, 走出了功利主义的论调
stepping outside utilitarian considerations in arguing for 为了区分出更高一级、更神圣的快乐
qualitatively higher pleasures and for sacred 或特别重要的个人权利？
or especially important individual rights? 我们还没有完全解答这个问题，因为要解答这个问题，
We haven't fully answered that question because to answer that question, 在权利和正义的情况下，
in the case of rights and justice, 要求我们探索其它方法，
will require that we explore other ways, 不是用功利主义的方法
non-utilitarian ways of accounting for the basis 然后再看看这些方法是否成功。
of rights and then asking whether they succeed. 至于边沁，他提出了功利主义
As for Jeremy Bentham, who launched utilitarianism 作为一种道德和法律哲学的学说，
as a doctrine in moral and legal philosophy, 边沁在1832年去世，享年85岁。
Bentham died in 1832 at the age of 85. 但是如果你去伦敦，你可以今天就去“拜访”他。
But if you go to London, you can visit him today literally. 按着他的意愿，他的尸体还保留着，
He provided in his will that his body be preserved, 经过防腐处理，陈列在伦敦大学，
embalmed, and displayed in the University of London, 在玻璃柜中，用蜡做的头像
where he still presides in a glass case with a wax head, 穿着当年的衣服。
dressed in his actual clothing. 在他去世前，边沁对待自己
You see, before he died, Bentham addressed himself 跟他的哲学思想是一致的。
to a question consistent with his philosophy. 有什么能让死人活着？
Of what use could a dead man be to the living? 一个方法是，他说，将一个人的尸体
One use, he said, would be to make one's corpse 用来被解剖作研究。
available to the study of anatomy. 但是，对于一位伟大的哲学家，更好的保存方法是
In the case of great philosophers, however, better yet to preserve 留下身躯，勉励世人
one's physical presence in order to inspire future generations of thinkers. 你想看看，边沁是什么样子的吗？
You want to see what Bentham looks like stuffed? 下面是他的模样。
Here is what he looks like. 这就是他
There he is. 如果仔细地观察，你会发现
Now, if you look closely, you will notice that the embalming 他的头部，没有成功防腐
of his actual head was not a success, 所以，人们改用了蜡头像，更为逼真，
so they substituted a waxed head and at the bottom, for verisimilitude, 在底部，你可以在一个盘上看到他实际的头像。
you can actually see his actual head on a plate. 你看到了吗？在那儿。
You see it? Right there. 那么，这个故事的道德准则是什么？
So, what's the moral of the story? 这个故事的道德准则，顺带说一下
The moral of the story - and by the way, 在伦敦大学学院，董事会开会时，将他带出去，
they bring him out during meetings of the board 他的这份记录
at University College London and the minutes record him 呈上了，但没有表决。
as present but not voting. 这就是一个哲学家的一生
Here is a philosopher in life and in death 一生坚守着自己的哲学原则
who adhered to the principles of his philosophy. 下一次，我们将继续讨论权利。
We'll continue with rights next time. 千万不要错过，网上和其他观众交流的机会
Don't miss the chance to interact online with other viewers of Justice. 一起加入讨论，参加在线的投票 
Join the conversation, take a pop quiz, 回看你已经错过了的演讲，从中学习 
watch lectures you've missed, and learn a lot more. justiceharvard.org。
It's at justiceharvard.org. It's the right thing to do. 中文字幕：何_何
http://forum-network.org xiaolai 



 Chapter 2: 自由选择






 Chapter 3: 这是我的土地






 Chapter 4: 是否雇佣顶替自己服役的人






 Chapter 5: 小心你的动机






 Chapter 6: 谎言的教训






 Chapter 7: 公平的起点是什么






 Chapter 8: 平权行动的争论






 Chapter 9: 好公民


好公民
The Good Citizen 我们来讨论亚里士多德,
We turn to Aristotle 在讨论了
after examining theories, 正义的一些当代的理论
modern theories, of justice 这些理论试图把
that try to detach 正义和权利
considerations of justice and rights 从道德应得和美德的问题中分离出去。
from questions of moral desert and virtue. 亚里士多德不同意康德和罗尔斯。
Aristotle disagrees with Kant and Rawls. 亚里士多德主张，公正是关于让人们得到应得之物的问题。
Aristotle argues that justice is a matter of giving people what they deserve. 而亚里士多德的正义理论其中心观点就是
And the central idea of Aristotle's theory of justice 在思考正义和权利的时候，
is that in reasoning about justice and rights we have, 就不可避免地要思考这些行为的
unavoidably, to reason about the purpose,or the end, or the telos, 目的、目标、或泰罗斯（希腊语，指目标）
of social practices in institutions. 确实，正义要求我们对相同的人，给予相同的东西。
Yes, justice requires giving equal things to equal persons, 但一谈到正义，问题很快来了：
but the question immediately arises,in any debate about justice, 在什么方面相同?
equal in what respect? 亚里士多德说，要回答那个问题
And Aristotle says we need to fill in the answer to that question 就得看它的目标
by looking to the characteristic end, 或其本性，
or the essential nature, 或我们分配之物其自身的目的。
or the purpose, of the thing we're distributing. 于是，我们讨论了亚里士多德关于长笛的例子。
And so we discussed Aristotle's example of flutes; 谁该得到最好的长笛？
who should get the best flutes. 亚里士多德的回答是最好的长笛手。
And Aristotle's answer was the best flute-players. 最好的长笛手应获得最好的长笛，
The best flute-player should get the best flute 因为这样能彰显
because that's the way of honoring 卓越的长笛演奏
the excellence of flute playing. 这也是对伟大长笛手的奖赏。
It's a way of rewarding the virtue of the great flute-player. 有趣的是....
What's interesting though, (这就是我们今天要探究的)
and this is what we are going to explore today, 有趣的是，不用目的论来进行思考，并不那么容易，
is that it's not quite so easy to dispense with teleological reasoning 尤其当我们思考社会制度
when we're thinking about social institutions 和政治实践活动时。
and political practices. 当我们思考伦理、正义和道德时，
In general it's hard to do without teleology 一般来说，你很难不用到目的论。
when we're thinking about ethics,justice, and moral argument. 至少亚里士多德是这么认为的。
At least that is Aristotle's claim. 而我想通过两个例子
And I would like to bring out the force in Aristotle's claim 来解释亚里士多德的这一观点
by considering two examples. 一个例子是，亚里士多德花了相当的时间去讨论
One is an example that Aristotle spends quite a bit of time discussing; 政治生活的事例。
the case of politics. 例如，应该怎样分配国家官职、荣誉称号
How should political offices and honors, 和政府权力？
how should political rule be distributed? 第二个例子是，当代关于高尔夫球的争论。
The second example is a contemporary debate about golf 即职业高尔夫球协会是否应该
and whether the Professional Golfers Association 允许CaseyMartin
should be required to allow Casey Martin, 这位有残疾的高尔夫球手
a golfer with a disability, 允许他驾驶高尔夫球车。
to ride in a golf cart. 这两个事例都体现了
Both cases bring out 亚里士多德目的论的思考方式
a further feature 一个更深入的特点。
of Aristotle's teleological way of thinking about justice. 这个特点会出现在，当我们考虑目标或目的时，
And that is that when we attend to the telos, or the purpose, 有时会出现分歧，并争论
sometimes we disagree and argue about what the purpose 某个社会活动真正存在的目的是什么。
of a social practice really consists in. 当我们存在分歧时
And when we have those disagreements 那些分歧中的关键部分
part of what's at stake in those disagreements 不仅仅是谁将得到什么的问题
is not just who will get what, 不仅仅是一个分配问题，
not just a distributive question, 更是一个关于彰显荣耀的问题。
but also an honorific question. 具有怎样品质和才华的人，
What qualities,what excellences, 才配得到那份荣誉？
of persons will be honored? 讨论目的和目标
Debates about purpose and telos 常常同时要讨论关于荣誉的问题。
are often, simultaneously, debates about honor. 现在，让我们来看这些例子
Now, let's see how that works 亚里士多德叙述政治生活的事例，【】
in the case of Aristotle's account of politics. 这些天，当我们讨论分配公正时
When we discuss distributive justice these days 我们主要关注收入、财富、机会的分配。
we're mainly concerned with the distribution of income and wealth and opportunity. 亚里士多德对分配正义的关注
Aristotle took distributive justice 主要不集中在收入和财富上，
to be mainly not about income and wealth 而是在官职和荣誉称号上。
but about offices and honors. 谁才是有权利去统治的人？
Who should have the right to rule? 谁应该是一个公民？
Who should be a citizen? 政治权力应该怎样分配？
How should political authority be distributed? 这些都是他关于的问题。
Those were his questions. 那么，他是怎样回答这些问题的呢？
How did he go about answering those questions? 跟他对正义的目的论解释一样
Well, in line with his teleological account of justice, 亚里士多德主张，为了知道政治权力该如何分配，
Aristotle argues that to know how political authority should be distributed 我们首先要问政治生活的目的、要点、
we have, first, to inquire into the purpose, the point, 泰罗斯（目的）是什么
the telos, of politics. 政治生活是关于什么的？
So, what is politics about? 它怎样帮助我们决定，该由谁来统治？
And, how does this help us decide who should rule? 亚里士多德的回答是这样的，
Well, for Aristotle the answer to that question is, 政治生活在于
politics is about 塑造品格，
forming character, 塑造好的品格，
forming good character. 在于培养公民的美德，
It's about cultivating the virtue of citizens. 在于美好的生活，
It's about the good life. 那才是国家的最终目的、政治共同体的最终目的，
The end of the State,the end of the political community, 在《政治学》第三卷，他告诉我们，
he tells us in Book Three of the Politics, 政治生活不仅仅是生活，也不只是经济交易，
is not mere life, it's not economic exchange only, 不仅仅是治安，
it's not security only, 而是实现美好生活。
it's realizing the good life. 这就是亚里士多德所认为的，政治生活的目的。
That's what politics is for according to Aristotle. 现在，你可能会担心，你会说：
Now, you might worry about this. You might say, “嗯，也许这让我们看到，为什么那些关于正义和政治
"Well, maybe this shows us why those modern theorists of justice, 的现代理论
and of politics, 是正确的。”
are right". 还记得吗，对于康德和罗尔斯来说
Because remember,for Kant and for Rawls, 政治的要点不是塑造公民的道德品质。
the point of politics is not to shape the moral character of citizens. 它不是要让我们变好。
It's not to make us good. 而是要尊重我们自由地选择自己觉得好的东西、
It's to respect our freedom to choose our goods, 选择我们自己的价值和最终目标，
our values,our ends, 并拥有和他人一样的自由。
consistent with a similar liberty for others. 亚里士多德不同意这些说法。
Aristotle disagrees. “真正的城邦，
"Any polis which is truly so called, 那不仅仅是一个名字
and is not merely one in name, 她一定是献身于，提高美德的目标之中。
must devote itself to the end of encouraging goodness. 否则，政治的联合只沦为一种同盟而已。
Otherwise political association sinks into a mere alliance. 法律变成了一种协议，
Law becomes a mere covenant, 法律变成了个人权利的保证人
a guarantor of man's rights against one another, 而没有成为...它应该要成为...
instead of being - as it should be - 政治应该要让城邦里的成员们变得善良而公正。”
a way of life such as will make the members of a polis good and just." 这就是亚里士多德的观点。
That's Aristotle's view. 一个城邦不只是，人们共同居住的一个地方
"A polis is not an association for residents on a common site, 不只是为了阻止相互间的不正义行为。
or for the sake of preventing mutual injustice 不只是为了方便人们交易。”亚里士多德写道。
and easing exchange." Aristotle writes. “城邦目的和目标是为了美好的生活，
"The end and purpose of a polis is the good life, 而国家的建立，就是为了实现这一目标。
and the institutions of social life are means to that end." 如果这就是城邦和政治生活的目的，
Now, if that's the purpose of politics, of the polis, 亚里士多德说，我们就能以此得到
then, Aristotle says,we can derive from that 分配正义的原则；
the principles of distributive justice; 例如，谁该拥有最大决定权的原则，
the principles that tell us who should have the greatest say, 谁该拥有最大程度政治权力的原则。
who should have the greatest measure of political authority. 而他对此的回答是什么呢？
And what's his answer to that question? 那些最能
Well, those who contribute the most 建立这样一种机构的，也就是，
to an association of this character, 能帮助人们实现美好生活的人，
namely an association that aims at the good, 就应该在政治统治中获得最大份额，在城邦中享有荣誉称号。
should have a greater share in political rule and in the honors of the polis. 其理由是，
And the reasoning is, 在这个位置上，他们就最能实现
they are in a position to contribute most 政治共同体的本质目的
to what political community is essentially about. 所以，你能看到亚里士多德是怎样
Well, so you can see the link that he draws 把公民和政治权力的分配正义
between the principle of distribution for citizenship and political authority 和政治生活的目的联系起来。
and the purpose of politics. 你很快会问，“但为什么？”
"But why," you'll quickly ask, “为什么他会声称
"Why does he claim 政治生活，参与政治生活
that political life, participation in politics, 对于过上美好生活
is somehow essential 在一定程度上是必要的呢?
to living a good life?" 是否有可能
"Why isn't it possible 人们过着完美的生活，
for people to live perfectly good lives, 满意的生活，道德的生活，
decent lives,moral lives, 同时却不必参与到政治生活中？”
without participating in politics?" 对此，他给出了两个回答。
Well, he gives two answers to that question. 他给了一个不完整的回答，一个初步的答案，
He gives a partial answer, a preliminary answer, 在《政治学》第一卷中。
in Book One of the Politics 他告诉我们，只有生活在城邦中
where he tells us that only by living in a polis, 并且参与政治生活
and participating in politics, 才让我们完全实现，作为人类的我们的本性。
do we fully realize our nature as human beings. 人类，从本性上
Human beings are, by nature, 就意味着要生活在一个城邦之中。
meant to live in a polis. 为什么？
Why? 因为只有在政治生活中，我们才可以真正锻炼到
It's only in political life that we can actually exercise 我们的语言能力，
our distinctly human capacity for language, 亚里士多德认为，有了这种能力才能思考对与错，
which Aristotle understands is this capacity to deliberate about right and wrong, 思考正义与不正义。
the just and the unjust. 而且，亚里士多德在《政治学》第一卷中写道，
And so, Aristotle writes in Book One of the Politics, 城邦、政治共同体，
that the polis,the political community, 先于个体自然存在着，
exists by nature and is prior to the individual. 这不是说，它在个体出现以前就存在
Not prior in time, 而是其目的先于个体
but prior in its purpose. 人类离开政治共同体，
Human beings are not self-sufficient, 单靠自己
living by themselves, 是不可能做到自给自足的。
outside a political community. “那些孤立的人，那些不能分享到政治联合体的好处。
"Man who is isolated, who is unable to share in the benefits of political association, 那些不需要分享的人
or who has no need to share, 因为他已经自给自足，
because he's already self-sufficient, 这样的人，不是一头野兽，就是神。”
such a person must be either a beast or a god." 所以，我们要想全面实现我们的天性
So we only fully realize our nature, 要想全面发挥我们的能力，
we only fully unfold our human capacities, 就必须锻炼我们的语言能力，
when we exercise our faculty of language, 也就是说，要与其他公民思考
which means when we deliberate with our fellow citizens 善与恶
about good and evil, 对与错，正义与不正义。
right and wrong, just and the unjust. “但为什么，我们只能在政治共同体中，锻炼语言能力？”
"But why can we only exercise our capacity for language in political community?" 你也许会这样问。
you might ask. 亚里士多德在《尼各马可伦理学》中
Aristotle gives a second part, a fuller part, 给了一个更完整的回答
of his answer in the Nichomachean Ethics; 我们的阅读材料中，也其中的节选
an excerpt of which we have among the readings. 他解释说，政治的讨论、
And there he explains that political deliberation, 公民生活的行使、
living the life of a citizen, 统治与被统治之间的交替、权力的分享，
ruling and being ruled in turn, sharing in rule, 所有这些活动，对美德都是必须的。
all of this is necessary to virtue. 亚里士多德把幸福定义为
Aristotle defines happiness 不是最大程度的让快乐超过痛苦，
not as maximizing the balance of pleasure over pain 而是作为一种活动，一种与美德相一致的
but as an activity,an activity of the soul 灵魂的活动。
in accordance with virtue. 他说，每一个学政治的学生必须研究灵魂，
And he says that every student of politics must study the soul 因为塑造灵魂，是在一个良好的城邦
because shaping the soul is one of the objects of legislation 立法的目标之一。
in a good city. 但是为什么为了过上有道德的生活，
But why is it necessary to live in a good city 必须生活在一个好的城市里?
in order to live a virtuous life? 我们为什么不能从家庭中，学习好的道德，
Why can't we just learn good moral principles at home 或从哲学课堂，或从一本书里，
or in a philosophy class or from a book, 按照那些原则
live according to those principles, 那些规则，那些准则
those rules, those precepts, 来生活呢？
and leave it at that? 亚里士多德说，那种方法是学不到美德的。
Aristotle says virtue isn't acquired that way. 美德
Virtue 是只有通过实践，才能获得的
is only something we can acquire by practicing, 是只有通过运用，才能获得的。
by exercising the virtues. 它是只能通过做，才能学到的。
It's the kind of thing we can only learn by doing. 它不能从书本学到。
It doesn't come from book learning. 在这方面，它很像长笛演奏的例子
In this respect, it's like flute playing; 学习演奏乐器，你不能够只靠
you couldn't learn how to play a musical instrument well 读一本书来学，
just by reading a book about it. 你必须练习，
You have to practice, 必须聆听，那些有造诣的长笛手的表演。
and you have to listen to other accomplished flute-players. 还有其他一些实践也是如此，
There are other practices and skills of this type. 例如，烹调
Cooking; 我们有烹调书
there are cookbooks 但从来没有一位大厨，是仅靠书本来学习烹调的
but no great chef ever learns how to cook by reading a cookbook only. 它只能靠动手做来学习。
It's the kind of thing you only learn by doing. 讲笑话可能也是一个例子，
Joke-telling is probably another example of this kind. 但从来没有一位伟大的喜剧演员，只靠读关于喜剧原则的书，
No great comedian learns to be a comedian just by reading a book 来学会成为一个喜剧演员。
on the principles of comedy. 那样是不会成功的。
It wouldn't work. 为什么呢？
Now, why not? 讲笑话、烹调和演奏乐器，
What do joke-telling and cooking 这些事物其共同点就是
and playing a musical instrument have in common 我们不能完全靠领会书籍和讲座上的
such that we can't learn them just by grasping a precept or a rule 准则或规则来把它学会。
that we might learn from a book or a lecture? 它们的共同点是需要
What they have in common is that they are all concerned with 熟练地掌握它。
getting the hang of it. 当我们学习如何烹调、演奏乐器、或讲笑话时
But also what is it we get the hang of when we learn how to cook, 我们怎样精通它？
or play a musical instrument, or tell jokes well? 用心觉察细节，每种情况的特别之处。
Discerning particulars, particular features of a situation. 这里没有没有规则，没有准则
And no rule, no precept, 可以告诉喜剧演员、厨师或音乐家
could tell the comedian or the cook or the great musician 如何培养那种觉察细节、
how to get in the habit of,the practice of, 和每种情况的特别之处的习惯。
discerning the particular features of a situation. 亚里士多德说，美德也是那样。
Aristotle says virtue is that way too. 它与政治生活有什么关联？
Now, how does this connect to politics? 建立美好生活所需要的美德，其获得的唯一方法
The only way we can acquire the virtues that constitute the good life 就是去运用美德，反复的教导，
is to exercise the virtues, to have certain habits inculcated in us, 然后与其他公民们一起，
and then to engage in the practice of deliberating with citizens 讨论关于善的本性。
about the nature of the good. 那是政治生活最终要达到的。
That's what politics is ultimately about. 公民美德的获得
The acquisition of civic virtue, 与他人研讨的能力的获得
of this capacity to deliberate among equals, 这些都是在政治生活之外，无法独自得到的。
that's something we couldn't get living a life alone outside of politics. 这就是为什么，为了实现我们的本性，
And so, that's why, in order to realize our nature, 我们不得不参与政治生活。
we have to engage in politics. 这也是为什么，那些最具公民美德的人
And that's why those who are greatest in civic virtue, 比如伯里克利（古希腊的伟大政治家）
like Pericles, are the ones 值得享有最高国家官职和荣誉称号。
who properly have the greatest measure of offices and honors. 所以，关于分配官职和荣誉称号的争论
So, the argument about the distribution of offices and honors 不仅有这样目的论的特征，
has this teleological character, 而且还是一个关于彰显荣耀的问题。
but also an honorific dimension. 因为政治的一部分目的，就是为了给像伯里克利这样的人以荣誉。
Because part of the point of politics is to honor people like Pericles. 这并不是说，伯里克利之所以拥有统治权
It isn't just that Pericles should have the dominant say 是因为他有最好的判断力
because he has the best judgment, 能得出最好的结果，
and that will lead to the best outcomes, 给公民们带来最佳的结果。
to the best consequences for the citizens. 尽管这也是对的，而且很重要。
That's true, and that's important. 但一个更深层的原因，人们觉得伯利克里
But a further reason people like Pericles 之所以应该拥有最高的
should have the greatest measure 国家官职、荣誉称号和政治权力，
of offices, and honors,and political authority, 在城邦里具有支配的能力
and sway in the polis, 是因为政治的部分目的，就是要挑选并把荣誉归于
is that part of the point of politics is to single out and honor 那些最具有相关美德的
those who possess the relevant virtue, 最具有公民美德、公民优点、实践性智慧的人
in this case civic virtue,civic excellence, practical wisdom, to the fullest extent. 那就是关于荣耀彰显的这个方面
That's the honorific dimension 与亚里士多德的政治观之间的联系
bound up with Aristotle's account of politics. 这里有一个例子
Here's an example 当代的一场争论体现了这种联系
that shows the link in a contemporary controversy; 它体现了，亚里士多德所要告诉我们的
the link to which Aristotle draws our attention 正义和权利，以及社会生活的目的，
between arguments about justice and rights on the one hand 这两者之间的联系。
and figuring out the telos or the purpose of a social practice on the other. 不仅如此，CaseyMartin和他的高尔夫球车一案中
Not only that, the case of Casey Martin and his golf cart 也体现了另一种联系，
also brings out the link between 即一项社会活动或一项体育运动的目的，
debates about what the purpose of a social practice or a game is, on the one hand 以及何种品质应该获得荣誉，这两者间的联系；
and the question of what qualities should be honored on the other; 也体现了目的论与
the link between teleology 分配正义原则之间的联系
and honor-based principles of distributive justice. CaseyMartin是谁？
Who was Casey Martin? CaseyMartin是一个非常优秀的高尔夫球手。
Well, Casey Martin is a very good golfer. 能在最高水平的高尔夫球赛中竞技。
Able to compete at the highest levels of golf 除有一件事情
but for one thing; 他患有一种罕见的
he has a rare 腿部血液循环的疾病，
circulatory problem in his leg 这使得他行走非常困难。
that makes it very difficult for him to walk; 不仅困难，而且危险。
not only difficult but dangerous. 所以，他请求职业高尔夫球协会(PGA)，
And so he asked the PGA, 这个管理职业巡回赛的组织
which governs the pro tour in golf, 来允许他参赛时，
to be able to use a golf cart 能够使用高尔夫球车来代步。
when he competed in professional tournaments. PGA说不行，
PGA said no, 于是，他依据《美国伤残法案》提起诉讼，
and he sued under the Americans for Disabilities Act; 官司一直打到了美国最高法院。
he sued in a case that went all the way to the United States Supreme Court. 最高法院需要解决的问题就是，
The question the Supreme Court had to answer was, CaseyMartin是否有权利
does Casey Martin have a right 让PGA提供和允许他
that the PGA provide him, allow him, 在巡回赛上，使用高尔夫球车？
to use a golf cart on the tour, or not? 这儿有多少人认为
How many here think that, 从道德的角度来看
from a moral point of view, CaseyMartin应该
Casey Martin should 有权利使用高尔夫球车？
have a right to use a golf cart? 有多少人认为，他没有这个权利？
And how many think that he should not have a right to a golf cart, in the tournaments? 多数人赞同CaseyMartin具有这个权利
So the majority are sympathetic to Casey Martin's right, 尽管有相当一部分的少数派不同意。
though a substantial minority disagree. 让我们先听听
Let's first hear from those of you 那些不支持CaseyMartin的声音
who would rule against Casey Martin. 为什么你们认为，PGA不需要让他骑高尔夫球车？
Why would you not say that the PGA must give him a golf cart? 是的。
Yes. 因为起初提出高尔夫球
Since the inception of golf, 因为这项体育运动的其中一部分
because it has been part of the sport 高尔夫一个重要的环节
it is now intrinsically part of golf; 就是在高尔夫球场上行走，
walking the course. 所以，行走成为了打高尔夫球的内在的一部分。
And thus, because it's intrinsic to golf, 我会说，不能在球场上行走，
I'd argue that not being able to walk the course 就等于是不能完成这项运动的这个方面，
is just not being able to perform an aspect of the sport, 而对于职业级的水平，这是必要的。
which is necessary to performing at a professional level. 好的，等一下。
Good.Stay there for a minute. 你叫什么名字
What's your name? Tommy
Tommy. 顺便问下，你是高尔夫球手吗，Tom？
Are you a golfer, by the way, Tom? 不是经常打，但
Not so much but, yeah, 打一点
a little bit. 这里有没有打高球的，
Are there any golfers here, 我的意思是真正打高尔夫的？
I mean, real golfers? 谢谢你，教授，那是...
Thank you, professor, that was... 不，不
No, no. 我接受你的观点。
I'm just taking your word for it. 这里有没有人是高尔夫球队的？
Is there someone here on the golf team? 好的。
Yes? 请说你的名字，
Tell us your name, 再告诉我们你是怎么想的。
and tell us what you think. 我的名字是Michael，
My name is Michael 而且我通常会开一部高尔夫球车。
and I usually take a cart. 所以...
So . . . 可能你不该问我
I'm probably the wrong person to ask. 当我发问时，你的手举很慢，是不是这个原因？
Is that why your hand went up slowly when I asked? 是的。
Yes. 好的，但是Tom说，
Alright, but Tom is saying, 先前Tom说，至少在职业球手的级别上，
Tom said a minute ago that at least at the professional level 在球场上行走是打高尔夫球所必不可少的。
walking the course is essential to the game. 你同意吗？
Do you agree? 我同意，是的。
I would, yes. 真的？那你为什么要开球车？
You do? Then why do you take a cart? 而且，你自称是打高尔夫球的？
And you call yourself a golfer? 不，不。
No, no, no. 我在开玩笑，玩笑。
I'm kidding, I'm kidding. 对此你怎么说？
What do you say to that? 当我在球场上用腿走之后
When I have walked the course 这确实给这项运动增添了很多
it does add tremendously to the game. 这样比赛就更加难了，真的。
It makes it a lot harder. It really does. 是吗？
Yeah? 好吧，Michael和Tom留在那儿。
Alright let's hear, Michael and Tom stay there, 让我们听听那些
let's hear from people who 认为他有权骑球车的人的意见
say that he should have a right to a golf cart. 以及为什么？谁准备为这个立场辩护？
Why? Who is prepared to defend that position? 说吧。
Yes. 嗯，我想肯定应该要求PGA
Well, I think the PGA should definitely 允许他骑车一辆球车。
be required to give him a golf cart 因为这场争论，不只是关于
because they argue in the decision that it's not just a matter of, 他是不是也体验了这种疲劳。
he's not experiencing fatigue. 对他而言，他也是走了将近一英里，
For him he's still walking about a mile, 球车不能在随便开，
the cart can't go everywhere with him, 在这一英里，他仍感受到比一个健康的球手
and in that mile he is still experiencing more fatigue and pain 更多的疲倦和痛苦。
than a healthy player would. 所以，这不是说他想免掉自己的劣势。
So, it's not as if you're removing the disadvantage. 你叫什么名字?
What's your name? Riva
Riva. Riva，对于Tom的观点，认为
Riva, what do you say to Tom's point 在球场上行走是比赛必不可少的，你怎么看？
that walking the course is essential to the game? 这就像一位残疾人
It would be as if 在美国篮球职业联赛上打球，
a disabled player could play in the NBA 却不必在球场上跑来跑去一样。
but not have to run up and down the court. 对此我有两个回应。
Well, I think there are two responses to that. 首先，我不认为行走是这项运动不可缺少的，
First, I don't think it's essential to the game, 因为绝大多数高尔夫球手，尤其是平常休闲娱乐时，
because most golfers who play,particularly recreationally, 都会开车。--就像Michael一样
play with a cart. -- Like Michael. 而且，在某些巡回赛上
And on several of the tours 你是可以骑车的。
you can play with a cart; 例如PGA元老级职业高尔夫巡回赛，
on the Senior PGA Tour, 耐克巡回赛，
on the Nike Tour, 以及许多的大学赛事
in a lot of the college events. 这些赛事，也几乎和PGA巡回赛一样
And those events are just as competitive 高水平、高竞技性。
and just as high level as the PGA Tour. 所以，如果你争辩说，这是该运动的一个重要部分，
So, really it's just a matter of selective reasoning 那只是一次有选择的推论。
if you argue it as an important part of the sport. 哪怕你非得让他走这段路，
But, even if it is he still does have to walk, 他还是站着打高尔夫球，
he still plays golf standing up, 这并非说他就可以在轮椅上打高尔夫了。
it's not as if he's playing golf from a wheelchair. 好的，
Alright. 还有谁？
Who else? 说吧。
Go ahead. 我想比赛的整个目的
I think the whole point of a competition 就是从第二名、第三名中，挑选出最好的。
is that it calls out the best, you know, from the second best or from the third best. 而当我们谈论国家级水平，
And when we're talking about the national level, 我们是在谈论最高级中的最高级。
we're talking about the highest of the highest. 我想，我们的争论点在于比赛的目的是什么。
I think what they're arguing about here is the purpose of competition. 而我认为，为了竞赛，你不能改变规则。
And I think in the sake of competition you can't change the rules. 所以，竞赛的目的需要包括行走？
So, the purpose of the competition includes walking? 行走是它的一个关键点。你同意Tom.
That's an essential, you agree with Tom. 你叫什么名字？
And what's your name? David。
David. 最高法院裁决
The Supreme Court ruled PGA得准予CaseyMartin使用球车，
that the PGA did have to accommodate Casey Martin 而判决的理由是，如Riva所说
and they did it on grounds that Riva mentioned, 行走并不是这项比赛的真正关键的部分。
that walking isn't really part of, an essential part of the game. 最高法院的证词说，在高尔夫球场上行走
They cited testimony saying that walking the court 所消耗的卡路里，比吃下的一个巨无霸（快餐）还少
consumes no more calories than you get eating a Big Mac. 多数法官都是这样认为。
That's what walking is in golf, according to the majority. 但Scalia持有异议。
Scalia was in dissent. Scalia法官赞同David，
Justice Scalia agreed with David. 他说
He said 这里根本不存在什么目的，
there is no purpose, 试图找出高尔夫运动的本质目的，不是我们应该的做法。
and it's certainly not your course to try to figure out the essential purpose of golf. 像任何一项体育运动一样，高尔夫完全是为了娱乐。
Golf is like any game, it's strictly for amusement. 而如果有某个团体，打高尔夫为了其他目的，
And if there's a group that wants to have one version of the game 他们可以那样做。
they can have that version of the game. 市场可以决定人们是否从中得到娱乐，人们是否喜爱、
And the market can decide whether people are amused 是否会去现场看或看电视转播。
and like and show up for that and watch the television broadcasts. Scalia的观点是反亚里士多德派的，
Scalia's dissent was an anti-Aristotelian dissent, 因为注意看看他的论点的其中两个地方。
because notice two things about the argument; 其一，我们在讨论的是高尔夫球的
first we're thrust into a discussion about what the essential nature, 真正本质和目的
or purpose,or telos of golf really is. 高尔夫包括行走吗？
Does it include walking? 我认为这场争论的背后是在讨论
And, here's something I think is rumbling beneath the surface of this debate, 行走是否在一定程度上决定了，高尔夫是否算是一项真正的运动竞赛？
whether walking partly determines whether golf is really an athletic competition. 毕竟，在高尔夫球是静止的
After all, the ball sits still. 你必须把它打进洞里。
You have to put it in a hole. 高尔夫球是否更类似于篮球、棒球和橄榄球？
Is it more like basketball,baseball, and football? 它是否真的算是一项体力运动竞赛？
Golf, an athletic competition? 还是说它更像台球？
Or is it more like billiards? 台球也是静止在那里。
The ball sits still there too. 就算你身体不好，也能参加。
You can be out of shape and succeed. 它包含了技巧
It involves skill 但不是体力运动的技巧。
but not athletic skill. 会不会是那些擅长高尔夫的人职业球员认为，
Could it be that those professional golfers, who excel at golf, 把高尔夫作为一项运动项目来被世人认可和尊敬，是十分重要的，
have a stake in golf being honored and recognized as an athletic event, 而不只是被人当作一项类似于桌球的技巧游戏？
not just a game of skill like billiards? 假如那是关键的问题，我们就会有一场
And if that's what's at stake, then we have a debate 关于目的，从目的论的角度的讨论
about the purpose, the teleological dimension, 以及关于荣誉的讨论。
and also a debate about honor. 是哪种美德真正
What virtues, really, 让高尔夫运动值得被荣誉和认可？
does the game of golf honor and recognize? 亚里士多德的这两个问题引起了我们的关注
Two questions to which Aristotle directs our attention. 我们下次继续这个案例。
We'll continue on this case next time. 上次结束时，我们在谈论
When we ended last time we were talking about CaseyMartin是否有权利在PGA巡回赛中
whether Casey Martin has a right to ride in a golf cart 以高尔夫球车代步
in the PGA Tournament. 大家最好回忆一下我们上次的讨论，
And it's worth remembering how we got into this debate 而什么才是理解政治哲学的关键点。
and what's at stake for an understanding of political philosophy. 还记得，我们在谈到亚里士多德的正义理论，
Remember, we were looking at Aristotle's theory of justice 其正义理论的取向
and one way of describing his approach to justice, 我们称其为“目的论”
we've called it 'teleological'. 从目的论的角度看来，为了分配权利
Teleological, because he says to allocate rights 首先我们不得不弄清关于其社会活动
we first have to figure out the purpose, or the end, 的目的或最终目标。
of the social practice in question. 其正义理论的另一个取向
Another way of describing Aristotle's account of Justice 对于亚里士多德来说，关于适宜度的问题；
is that justice is, for him, a matter of fit; 即让具有美德和才华的人
it's a matter of fitting persons with their virtues and excellences 配上合适的角色
to the appropriate roles. 现在，我想先结束关于CaseyMartin
Now, I want to finish our discussion about Casey Martin 争取以车代步的讨论。
and his claim for a golf cart, 然后，再回到另一个更深远意义的问题。
and then go back to one more consequential application in Aristotle, 即奴隶制的问题。
namely, the question of slavery. 对于CaseyMartin的请求，你是怎么看的？
What do you think about Casey Martin's request? 我们是否应该为他提供这个方便（以车代步）
Should there be an accommodation or not, 考虑到这项运动及巡回赛的本质
given the nature of the game and of the tournament 以及其目的?
and its purposes? “如果不提供他一部球车，算不算歧视呢？”
"Isn't it discrimination if he's not provided the golf cart as an accommodation", 一些人说。
say some. 其他人回应说，“那不算歧视，如果他可以骑车，对其他选手不公平
Others reply, "No, if he got a cart it would be unfair to the other golfers 因为他们都得花力气，
because they exert themselves, 在球场上行走，变得气喘吁吁、疲惫
become winded, fatigued,walking the course". 我们上次讨论到此
That's where we left it. 大家怎么看关于公平的问题？
What about the fairness argument? 好，Jenny
OK, Jenny. 我的问题是
My question was 为什么PGA不让所有球手都可以
why doesn't the PGA just make the option of a cart 选择开或不开球车？
available to all golfers? 通过阅读材料我了解到，许多不是PGA组织的高尔夫巡回赛，
From our readings I learned that there are many golf tournaments, other than the PGA, 并不禁止使用球车。
where using a cart is not prohibited. 比如元老级巡回赛，就允许并鼓励使用。
For instance, the Seniors Tournament it's even allowed and encouraged. 所以,为什么PGA不这么做呢？
So why doesn't the PGA just do that? 为什么不让所有人都使用球车呢？
Let everybody use a cart? 允许给所有人使用球车，
Give everyone the option of using a cart 然后大家选择用还是不用
and let them pick. 这样的话，那些比较守旧的人可能依旧会说，
So then the traditionalists can then still say, “好吧，我仍然选择在球场上行走。
"Well, I still choose to walk the course 尽管我知道，这样会比那些
but I do that knowing that I will be more tired at the end 开车的人更累。
than the people who took the cart." 好
Good. 好的，大家觉得Jenny的提议怎么样？
Alright, so what about Jenny's solution? 为了公平，
For the sake of fairness, 为了避免说只给CaseyMartin有（开车的）优势。
don't give Casey Martin an advantage, （如果开球车真的算是一种优势的话）
if indeed there is an advantage to riding in a cart. 那就让所有想开球车的人
Let everyone who wants to 去开吧。
use a cart. 是不是所有人都对这个方案满意呢？
Is everyone happy with that solution? 这是否就能平息整个两难困境呢？
Does it put to rest this whole dilemma? 谁想回应一下Jenny？
Who has an answer for Jenny? 说吧。
Yes. 正如上节课提到的
As was brought up last time, 如果你那样做，你就是有损高尔夫的精神。
if you do that you kind of ruin some of the spirit of golf 而这种精神是许多人乐意看到的。
as a lot of people like to see it. 如果你允许每个人开球车，
If you let everybody take a cart. 就算这样能给予每个人同样的比赛条件，
Even though it gives everybody the same playing field now, 它让高尔夫更不像一项运动项目，
it sort of makes golf less of an athletic game, 像上节课有人指出的那样。
like people pointed out last class. 这就像如果有人决定参加一项体育赛事，
It's just like if someone decides to go into another sport 而他们想要占点优势。
and they want an advantage. 比如，假设你去游泳，
Like, if you have swimming 然后你说，“好吧，他想把脚蹼也穿上
and then you say, "OK, he wants flippers 为什么我们不允许，所有人在游泳时都穿上脚蹼呢？
so why don't we just allow everyone to have flippers when they're swimming?" 假设在奥运会游泳赛事上，让人们自由使用脚蹼，
And what would that do to the Olympic Swimming Competition, 又会发生什么呢？
if people were free to use, Jenny，我们最好让Jenny来回应这个问题。
Jenny, we better let Jenny reply to this. Da说，那样好像有损运动竞赛的精神
Da says it would sort of spoil the spirit of the athletic competition 就好像奥运会游泳项目，你让所有人都可以
as if in Olympic swimming you let anyone who wanted to 穿上脚蹼比赛。
swim with flippers. Jenny，你怎么对Da说？
Alright, Jenny,what do you say to Da? 那会破坏运动的精神。
It would spoil the spirit of it. 你同样会破坏高尔夫的精神，
You're also ruining the spirit of golf 如果你不允许一个真正热衷于、而且非常擅长这项运动的人参赛
by not letting people who are really passionate about the game, and very good at it, 只因在高尔夫的一个方面（他不能达标）
compete simply because of an aspect of golf which is not, 高尔夫运动的核心是用高尔夫球杆击打球
the main point of golf is you use the club to make strokes 并把它打入洞中。
and hit it into a hole. 对不起，我不打高尔夫，
I'm sorry, I'm not a golfer 但就我所看到的，那才是它的要点。
but that's basically the gist of the game from what I see it. 我读了PGA和CaseyMartin的裁决
And I was reading the PGA versus Casey Martin decision 判词中，他们说，
that was one of the sentences that they said 因为在球场上行走，不是高尔夫的本质部分，
is because walking the course is not an inherent part of golf, 只有挥动球杆才是。
only swinging the club is. 好，Jenny回答了Da的问题。
Good. So, Jenny replies to Da, 那么，在球场上行走真的不是必要的吗？
well, it isn't really essential anyhow to walk the course. 那么，我们回到对目的的讨论
So, we're back to the purpose. 我的意思是，我确信，像轮椅篮球一样
I mean, I'm sure there are, like wheelchair basketball, 我们会有许多不同的竞赛
there are certain different competitions 允许那些残疾人只需要动动他们的手臂也能参赛
that can be made for people who may only be able to use their arms. 好的，是
Right. Yes. Michael你怎么认为？
Michael what do you think? Jenny刚才说，像轮椅篮球
Jenny just said that there is stuff like wheelchair basketball 假如你不能打篮球，你还有这个选择
where if you can't play basketball there is another option. 我想，在PGA巡回赛里有着另外的选择，
I think there are other options in the PGA Tour. 但PGA巡回赛是最好的、顶级的。
But the PGA Tour is the best,is the pinnacle, 而你不得不尽全力来完成比赛的要求。
and you have to have certain requirements fulfilled to perform. 好的，Michael，你想对CaseyMartin说，
Alright, Michael, you want to say to Casey Martin 我们有残奥会
there is such a thing as a Special Olympics 供那些残疾人参加。
for those who are disabled. 去参加残奥会版本的高尔夫赛事吧。
Go play in the golfing version of the Special Olympics. 那就是你要说的？--是的。
That's what you would say Michael? -- Yeah. 我认为，行走是高尔夫运动的一部分。
I think that walking is part of the sport of golf. 而对于CaseyMartin，如果他不能在球场上行走，
And Casey Martin, you know if he can't walk the course 我不认为他能在PGA比赛。
then I don't think he should be able to play in the PGA. 好的，非常谢谢你们的争论，
Alright, well thank you very much for that exchange. 这场争论的什么结论
What comes out of this exchange 让我们又回到亚里士多德的正义理论？
that goes back to Aristotle's theory of justice? 其中一点就是
Well, one thing is the question, 行走是高尔夫的本质部分吗?
is walking an essential part of golf? CaseyMartin是否拥有，PGA必须去尊重的权利，
And the very fact that deciding whether there is a right 要决定这件事似乎取决于
for Casey Martin that the PGA must respect, seems to depend, （这也是亚里士多德所建议的讨论和解决问题的方式）
as Aristotle suggests it must, on debating and resolving the question, 行走是高尔夫的本质部分吗?
is walking essential to the game of golf? 这是该故事的其中一个道德问题。
That's one moral of the story. 而这里还有第二个道德问题，
But there's a second moral to the story 按照亚里士多德的观点来看。
from an Aristotelian point of view. 这场讨论的关键之处
What's at stake here, 也是亚里士多德提出的第二个的关键之处
this is the second Aristotelian stake in this debate, 就是荣誉。
is honor. CaseyMartin想争取骑车参赛，那样他就能
Casey Martin wants the accommodation so that he can compete 去争取PGA这项顶级赛事的荣誉
for the honor of winning the best tournaments. 现在，为什么
Now, why is it 那些职业高尔夫球手，那些优秀的球手，
that the professional golfers,the great golfers, 例如JackNicklaus、TomKite，他们上庭作证时
testified in this case - Jack Nicklaus, Tom Kite - 在这次阅读材料中，我们看到
in the readings, 他们反对让他用球车，
against letting him use a cart 而且我相信，他们同样会强烈反对Jenny
and they, I would suspect,would be equally vehement, Jenny, 你的让每个人驾驶球车的建议。
in opposing your suggestion of letting everyone ride in a cart, 从某种意义上，它回到了Da的观点。
and this goes back, in a way,to Da's point. 让高尔夫轻松点怎么样?
How to put this gently? 职业高尔夫球手对于
Professional golfers are sensitive 他们所参加的运动是否是一项真正的运动是十分敏感的。
about whether their sport is really a sport. 假使每个人都骑着一辆球车，或允许大家这么做
Because if everyone rode around in a cart, or could, 很显然
then it would become clear, or clearer, （取决于你们各自的看法）
depending on your point of view, 高尔夫就不算是一项真正的运动竞技。
that golf is not really an athletic competition 而只是一个游戏
but rather a game; 一项技巧的游戏，而非运动。
a game of skill but not a sport. 这不仅是在讨论目的、目的论的问题
And so not only the question of debating the purpose, the teleological feature, 而且是在讨论从什么角度，来讨论高尔夫的目的。
but also from the standpoint of viewing debates about the purpose of golf. 高尔夫球的本质是什么？
What's essential to golf? 亚里士多德建议说，这些讨论
Those debates, Aristotle suggests, 都会不可避免的讨论到关于分配荣誉的问题
inevitably are also debates about the allocation of honor. 因为高尔夫球的部分目的，
Because part of the purpose of golf 不仅仅是娱乐观众；
is not just to amuse spectators; 从亚里士多德的观点来看，Scalia在这点上错了。
Scalia's wrong about that, from Aristotle's point of view. 它不仅仅是提供娱乐，
It's not just to provide entertainment, 不仅仅是让人们快乐，
it's not just to make people happy. 它不仅仅是一项娱乐。
It's not a mere amusement. 它是荣誉，是奖赏，
It's honoring, it's rewarding, 它在认可一种特定的运动才能，
it's recognizing a certain kind of athletic excellence, 至少那些取得过高尔夫最高荣誉的人，
at least those who have achieved the highest honors 都会强烈地支持这种观点。
have a powerful stake in maintaining that view. 你们中有些人站在了Scalia的立场。
Now, some of you took the position the Scalia position. Scalia说：“这是一个非常困难的、愚蠢的问题。”
"This is an incredibly difficult and silly question", Scalia said. “高尔夫的本质是什么？”
"What is the essential nature of golf?" 那不是美国最高法院能够回答
It's not the kind of thing that the United States Supreme Court 或者应该回答的问题。
is equipped to decide,or should decide. 那就是Scalia的观点
That's Scalia. 而他说...
But he only he says that 对于高尔夫的本质是什么这个问题，
because he takes a very strong,and as it happens, 他碰巧采取了一种强烈的反亚里士多德派的立场，
anti-Aristotelian position on what a game is. “一项游戏的真正内涵是没有目的的，”
"It is the very nature of a game to have no object, " （即没有所谓的关键点）
no point, “除了娱乐（的目的）”，Scalia说。
"except amusement" says Scalia, 他说，“那是游戏和生产活动之间的区别所在。”
"That is what distinguishes games" he says, "From productive activity." 你可以想象，Scalia会是哪种体育的爱好者。
You can just imagine what kind of sports fan Scalia must be. “还有”，他说，
"And so", he says, “我们不能说，游戏的任何一种主观的规则就是其本质。”
"It's impossible to say that any of the game's arbitrary rules is essential." 然后，他援引了马克·吐温关于高尔夫的
And then he quotes Mark Twain's disparaging remark 贬低性评论。
about golf. 他说：“许多人视行走为高尔夫的首要特征。”
He says, "Many consider walking to be the central feature of golf. 这里是马克·吐温对其的经典批评：
Hence, Mark Twain's classic criticism of the sport ‘一次的好好散步被破坏了。’”
'a good walk spoiled'." 但是Scalia忽略了
But Scalia misses 游戏的一个重要特点
an important feature of games 还有当讨论到权利和公平的问题时
and the arguments about rights and fairness that arise from games, 他说游戏、体育、运动性竞技，
when he casts games,sports, athletic competitions, 只是单单为了娱乐
as solely for the sake of amusement; 只是一项功利主义的消遣。
as solely an utilitarian activity. 而一个持亚里士多德观点的人会说
But an Aristotelian view of sports says, 不，这不只是关于娱乐。
no it's not just about amusement, 真正的体育，真正的运动项目，
real sports,real athletic events, 还是一种欣赏，不只是娱乐。
are also about appreciation,not just amusement. 那些看体育的、关心体育、参与体育的人
And people who follow sports and care about sports 都了解这一点。
and play sports know this. 换句话说，
Which is another way of saying, 观赏体育和纯粹看大场面是有区别的，
there's a difference between a sport and a mere spectacle. 区别在于，体育是一项实践活动，
And the difference is that a sport is a practice 它召唤力量、荣誉和奖赏，
that calls forth and honors and prizes 还有特定的才能、特定的美德。
certain excellences,certain virtues. 而那些会欣赏这种美德的人
And the people who appreciate those virtues 才是真正的、有见识的体育迷。
are the true fans, the informed  fans, 对于他们，看体育比赛不只是娱乐，
and for them watching the sport is not mere amusement. 而这意味着，我们总是能找到
But that means that it's always possible to make sense of the debate about 什么是一项体育的本质特征
what feature of a sport is essential to it. 我们是可以弄清这些争论的。
We can make sense of these arguments. 而无需在意是否应该由法庭做这个判断。
Never mind the question whether the court should decide. PGA在自己内部的审议里
The PGA in its own internal deliberations 能够弄清这个问题，
can make sense of that debate, 这就是为什么，他们会非常在意他们的观点，
which is why they cared very much about their view, 坚持他们的观点，
insisting on their view, 坚持认为行走、（以及其带来的）费力、疲劳，
that walking,an exertion, and fatigue 是体育的本质部分，而非无关紧要的。
are essential, not peripheral,parts of sport. 这些阐释了
Well, this is all to illustrate 目的和荣誉的这两个特征。
the teleological and the honorific feature of debates about rights, 亚里士多德说，我们在思考正义时要考虑到这两点。
which Aristotle says we need to take account of in thinking about justice. 现在，我想让大家思考
Now, I want to begin for us to consider 亚里士多德的正义理论
whether Aristotle's theory of justice 是否正确。
is right or wrong; 是否有说服力
whether it's persuasive or unpersuasive. 我要听听你们对此的想法。
I want to get your thoughts about that. 我希望看到有人提出鲜明的、重要的反对意见。
But I want to anticipate one obvious and important objection. 如果公正是关于适宜度的问题，找到人们合适的角色。
If justice is about fit,fitting persons to roles, 让那些具有美德的人
matching virtues 找到合适的荣誉和承认。
to the appropriate honors and recognition. 如果那就是正义，
If that's what justice is, 那么，它还留下自由的空间吗？
does it leave room for freedom? 这是对亚里士多德的正义的目的论说法
And this is one of the main objections 主要反对意见之一，
to Aristotle's teleological account of justice. 如果某些特定的角色、社会角色，
If certain roles,social roles, 就是我恰当的、合适担当的角色。
are fitting,or appropriate, to me 那么，我还有权为自己选择
where does that leave my right 我的社会角色,
to choose my social roles, 和我的生活目标吗？
my life purposes,for myself? 目的论给自由留下了空间吗？
What room does teleology leave for freedom? 事实上，你可能会记得，
And in fact,you may remember, 罗尔斯否认正义的目的论说法。
Rawls rejects teleological accounts of justice 因为他说，
because he says that 正义的目的论的理论
teleological theories of justice 威胁到了
threaten 公民们平等的基本权利。
the equal basic rights of citizens. 所以，让我们开始检验一下
So, let's begin to examine 亚里士多德是不是正确的？
whether Aristotle is right, 特别是，他思考正义的目的论方法
and in particular, whether his teleological way of thinking about justice 是否与自由相冲突。
is at odds with freedom. 现在，一个明显需要我们担心的理由是
Now, one obvious reason to worry 亚里士多德为奴隶制的辩护。
is Aristotle's defense of slavery. 他维护奴隶制。
He defends slavery, 奴隶制是他那个时代雅典的一种制度。
which existed as an institution in the Athens of his day. 他是怎样为奴隶制辩护的呢？
Well, what is his defense of slavery? 要让奴隶制是公正的，
Two things, two conditions,have to be met 需要满足两件事、两个条件，
for slavery to be just. 首先，奴隶制是必须的。
First, it has to be necessary. 亚里士多德说，至少在我们的社会中，
and Aristotle says,at least in our society, 奴隶制是必须的。
slavery is necessary. 为什么它是必须的?
Why is it necessary? 如果要让其中一些公民无需参
If there are to be citizens 手工作业，以及奴仆性的、家务性的杂活，
who are freed from manual and menial and household chores 从而去参加集会，去研讨政治。
to go to the assembly,to deliberate about politics, 那么，就不得不让另一些人去干那些奴仆性的工作，
there have to be some who look after those menial tasks; 这些维持生活所必须的工作。
the mere necessities of life. 他说，除非你们能发明一些科幻的，
He says, unless you could invent in some science-fiction 或技术设备，
a technological fix 然后让它们代替那些奴隶
then there are going to be those who have to do 去完成这些艰苦的家务活。
the hard and difficult and menial labor 假如一些公民们要去研讨善
if there are going to be citizens deliberating about the good 要想实现自己本性。
and realizing their nature. 所以，奴隶制是必须的
So slavery is necessary 那是为了过上城邦生活，
for the life of the polis 为了让一些公民有这个机会
for there to be open to citizens. 为了参与研讨、辩论的、实践智慧的生活，
The life of deliberation,of argument, of practical wisdom. 当然，这里需要满足一些更为深入的条件，
But there's a further condition that has to be met. 奴隶制不仅是作为维持整个社群所是必须的，
Slavery has not only to be necessary for the community as a whole to function, 而且它现实就是如此。还记得刚才关于适宜度的那个标准吗？
but it also has to be the case, remember the criterion of fit? 不得不有奴隶制，因为对于一些人来说
It also has to be the case that there are some people 成为一个奴隶，是公平的，或者说是恰当的，
for whom being a slave is the just, or the fitting, 或者说这些人具备了适合的条件。
or the appropriate condition. 亚里士多德按照他自己的标准，
Now, Aristotle agrees that by his own standards, 赞同说，想要奴隶制是公平的，
both of those conditions must be met, must be true, 就必须满足这些条件。
if slavery is to be just. 在一段凄惨的文字中，
And then,in a deplorable passage, 他说，确实有一些人，他们的天性就适合去做奴隶，
he says, well, it is true that there are some people who are fit by nature 他们有成为奴隶的素质。
who are cut out to be slaves. 而另外有些人，他们则有别于一般人，
These are people who differ from ordinary people 尽管有同样的身躯，却有不一样的灵魂，
in the same way that the body differs from the soul. 有些人就是要被统治，
These are people who are meant to be ruled, 对于他们来说，
and for them 成为奴隶，就是实现他们本性的最佳途径。
their nature is best realized if they're slaves. 他们可以从其他人身上认识到理性，
They can recognize reason in others 但他们无法参与其中，也无法运用理性。
but they can't partake of it,they can't exercise it. 而我们多多少少了解到这点。
And somehow we can know this. 亚里士多德一定料到，这样说是危险的，
Now, Aristotle must have known that there was something dodgy, 这种说法是有压力。
something strained about this claim, 因为他很快知道，那些不支持他的人会有一个观点。
because he quickly acknowledges that those who disagree may have a point. 而那些不同意的人，会指出一点
And what those who disagree point out is 在雅典，有许多人是奴隶，
that there are a lot of people in Athens who are slaves 不是因为他们生来就是奴隶，或适合当奴隶，
not because they were born to be slaves, or fit to be slaves, 只因为他们被俘虏了，他们是战争的失败者。
but because they were captured, they were losers in a war. 所以，亚里士多德承认，在现实中，古代雅典里
And so, Aristotle admits that as practiced in ancient Athens, 奴隶身份不一定是他们真的合适
slavery didn't necessarily line up with who actually is fit 或天生做奴隶。
or born to be a slave, 因为一些现实中的奴隶，只是因为不走运，
because some actual slaves just were slaves by bad luck, 在战争中被俘虏而成为了奴隶。
by being captured in a war. 按亚里士多德的论述，
And on Aristotle's own account 就算是因为公民的缘故，必须要有奴隶制度，
even if it's necessary to have slavery for the sake of citizenship 但如果一个人不适宜当奴隶，而被分配到这个角色，
it's unjust if people who aren't properly slaves 那是不公平的，
are cast in that role. 是不合适的。
There is a misfit. 亚里士多德承认，让那些不适合的人成为奴隶，这样的奴隶制度
Aristotle recognizes that slavery for those who aren't fit for the task 是一种强迫。
is a kind of coercion. 说奴隶制是错的原因，不在于它是强迫的。
The reason slavery is wrong is not because it's coerced. （尽管）强迫也是表明它就是错的一个指标，
Coercion is an indicator that it's wrong, 因为这种奴隶身份并非出于本性。
because it's not natural. 假如你不得不强迫某些人担当一个角色，
If you have to coerce someone into a role 这明显说明，他们不属于那里，
that's a pretty good indication that they don't belong there, 这个角色不适合他们，
that that role isn't fitting for them. 而亚里士多德承认这点。
And Aristotle recognized this. 所有这些，关于亚里士多德
So, all of this is to say the example of slavery, 为奴隶制辩护的例子，
Aristotle's defense of it, 并非说明了，目的论的原则、
doesn't show that there isn't anything wrong in principle 人和角色之间要匹配的这种正义的观念
with teleological argument,with the idea of justice as fit 其中一些地方是错误的，
between persons and roles, 因为我们完全可以用亚里士多德自己的说法，
because it's perfectly possible within Aristotle's own terms, 来解释这个实际应用的问题
to explain what's wrong with this application, 错在哪里。
this practical application that he made of his theory. 我想以自由的名义，来对亚里士多德进行一个更大的挑战。
I want to turn to the larger challenge to Aristotle in the name of freedom. 但在那么做之前，
But before I do that 我想看看，人们是怎么想的
I want to see what people think 对于亚里士多德的这个正义即适宜度的说法，
of Aristotle's account of justice as fit, 他的这种目的论的方式，
his teleological way of reasoning about justice 以及荣耀彰显的角度
and the honorific dimension of rights 还有我们对
and of distributive justice 长笛、政治生活和高尔夫的讨论中出现的分配正义问题。
that immerged in our discussion of flutes and politics and golf. 你们可以借此弄清楚没听明白的地方。
Questions of clarification about Aristotle 或者提出反对理由。
or objections to his overall account. 说吧。
Yes. 我反对亚里士多德的理由在于
My objection to Aristotle 他想帮人们匹配到一个相应的角色。
is that he wants to match a person to a role. 如果你像个海盗一样走路和说话，
And, you know, if you walk like a pirate and you talk like a pirate, 那么，你应该去当海盗。这是正确的。
you know, you should be a pirate.And that is what is right. 我觉得，亚里士多德的观点
And so what's strange and seems paradoxical to me 其奇怪和自相矛盾的地方在于
about Aristotle's view point 如果你像一个海盗一样走路和说话，
is that if you walk like a pirate and you talk like a pirate 你就不能当投资银行家，
you shouldn't be an investment banker, 因为那不是你本性该要做的。
because that's not what you're inherently supposed to do. 假设你有一条假腿、一个眼罩
If you have a peg leg and an eye patch 和一副不满的性格，
and a disgruntled disposition,you know, 你应该去到海盗船上远海航行。
you should be on a pirate ship on the high seas. 所以他没有...
So he doesn't... 但有些人会说
Some would say 这两种职业之间的差别
that the distinction between the two vocations 不像你说的那么大
is not as clear as you suggest. 不过你说的很好。
Alright, but that's good. 我理解你的观点。
I take your point. 好的，继续。
Yes, go ahead. 这似乎忽视了个人权利。
It just seems to ignore individual rights. 我也许是全世界最好的看门人。
So, I might be the perfect janitor in the whole world 我能把那份工作干得最有效率，
and I can do that job the most efficiently 好过现今世上的所有人。
out of anybody that exists right now, 但也许我不想从事它。
but I might not want to do that. 也许我想从事其他某种职业，
I might want to do any other number of pursuits 对我来说似乎不是一个真正好的选择。
and it seems to say that that isn't really a good option for me. 好的，你的名字？
Alright, and what's your name? --Mary-Kate。--好。
-- Mary-Kate. -- Good. 让我们再听两个人的发言。
Alright, let's take a couple more. 说吧。
Yes. 我想，在高尔夫球车的争论中
I think that the golf cart exchange 提到了一点，是我反对
sort of brought up what I see as my main objection 这种目的论的推论模式的主要理由。
to this teleological mode of reasoning. Michael，我想那是你的名字，对吧？
I mean, Michael, I think that's your name, right? Michael认为，行走是高尔夫的内在部分。
Believes that walking is an inherent part of golf. 而我自己则认为，行走不是其内在部分。
Myself, I believe that walking is not an inherent part of golf. 我感觉，无论花多长时间，
And I feel that no matter how long 去争论这一点，
we debate this particular point of contention 都永远不会达不成一致的意见。
we're never going to reach an accord. 我认为，目的论的推论方式
The teleological framework of reasoning,I believe, 不会真正地让我们达成任何一致的意见。
doesn't really allow us to come to any sort of agreement. 好的，你的名字？
Alright,and what's your name? --帕特里克。--帕特里克，
-- Patrick. -- Patrick. 让我来试着回答这些反对的理由。
Alright, let me try to address this set of objections to Aristotle. 先从Patrick的理由开始。
Let me start with Patrick's; 那是一条重要的反对理由。
it's an important objection. 我们争论了行走是否是高尔夫的本质，
We had a debate about whether walking is essential to golf, 就是在这样一个看上去微不足道的小事中，
and even in so seemingly trivial,or at least contained, a case as that, 我们都不能够达成一致的意见。
we couldn't agree. 那么我们怎么可以期待，
How can we possibly hope to agree? 在一些更重要的事情上
When the stakes are higher 例如政治共同体的基本目的、最终目的时
and when we're debating the fundamental purposes, or ends, 达成一致的意见？
of political community. 因此，如果我们不能对
And so, if we can't agree in 公众生活的目的达成一致的意见，
what the ends or the goods of our shared public life consist in, 那我们怎么能根据
how can we base justice and rights 什么是它们的目标、目的、美德所在，
on some notion of what the end, 来判读正义与否呢？
or the purpose,or the good consists in? 这是一个重要的反对理由，
That's an important objection. 以致当代的政治理论担心
So much so that much modern political theory takes that worry 人们会在这些问题出现分歧，
about disagreement over the good as its starting point, 于是得出一个结论：正义、权利和宪法
and concludes that justice and rights and constitutions 不能依附于任何一个善的观念、
should not be based on any particular conception of the good 或政治生活的目的上。
or the purposes of political life, 相反，我们应该提供一个
but should, instead,provide a framework of rights 让人们自由选择他们自己所认为的善
that leaves people free to choose their conceptions of the good, 选择他们自己的生活的目的。
their own conceptions of the purposes of life. 现在，Mary-Kate说，“如果一个人非常适合做某个角色，
Now, Mary-Kate said, "What if a person is very well suited to having a certain role, 比如，看门人的角色。
like the role of being a janitor, 但他却想做其他角色，想达到更高的成就，
but wants something else, wants to reach higher, 想要选择另外一种生活，那该他怎么办？”
wants to choose another way of life?" 所以，这就回到了关于自由的问题。
So, that goes back to this question about freedom. 如果我们确定
If we take our bearings as persons 某些角色就是适合我们的天性，
from roles that are said to fit our nature, 那么，这个角色是什么至少应该由我们自己决定？
shouldn't it at least be up to us to decide what those roles are? 应该是由我们自己决定，什么角色是适合于我们的？
In fact, shouldn't it be up to us to define what roles are suitable to us? 这就让我们回到了
And that's going to take us back 亚里士多德
to the confrontation between Aristotle on the one hand 与康德、罗尔斯，这两种观点的对峙。
and Kant and Rawls on the other. 康德和罗尔斯认为，Patrick讲的是有道理的。
Kant and Rawls think Patrick has a point. 他们说，正是因为在一个多元社会中，
They say precisely because people disagree in pluralist societies 对于美好生活的本质这个问题，会有分歧，
about the nature of the good life, 我们就不应该试图将正义建立在任何一种特定的看法，
we shouldn't try to base justice on any particular answer to that question. 所以，他们拒绝目的论。
So they reject teleology, 他们拒绝，将正义与某个善的概念联系在一起。
they reject the idea of tying justice to some conception of the good. 罗尔斯式、康德式的自由主义者们说
What's at stake in the debate about teleology, 在讨论目的论时，其关键之处
say Rawlsian and Kantian liberals, 如下：
is this; 如果把正义的判断标准依附于某个特定的对善的看法，
if you tie justice to a particular conception of the good, 如果你把正义看作是，一个人和他/她的角色之间的匹配的话，
if you see justice as a matter of fit between a person and his or her roles, 你没有给自由留下空间，
you don't leave room for freedom, 而想要自由就是要不依赖于
and to be free is to be independent of 从我的父母或者我所在的社会，所留下来的
any particular roles, or traditions, or conventions 任何特定的角色、传统、习俗约定。
that may be handed down by my parents or my society. 为了在这两大观点之间做出选择，
So, in order to decide as between these two broad traditions, 究竟是亚里士多德是正确的，还是康德和罗尔斯?
whether Aristotle is right, or whether Kant and Rawls are right, 我们需要详细研究：权利是否优先于善？
we need to investigate whether the right is prior to the good, 这是问题一。
question one, 我们还需要研究，成为自由人，一个自由的道德主体
and we need to investigate what it means to be a free person, 意味着什么。
a free moral agent. 自由是否要求，作为一个选择主体的我，
Does freedom require that I stand for toward my roles, 就得去坚守我自身的目的？
my ends, and my purposes as an agent of choice? 还是说，我得去寻找发现我真正的天性？
Or as someone trying to discover what my nature really is? 这两大问题，我们下次会继续讨论。
Two big questions and we'll take them up next time. 英文字幕：http://forum-network.orgxiaolai
中文字幕：蓬云道意
校对：何_何
http://forum-network.org  xiaolai 



 Chapter 10: 共同责任的辩论






 Chapter 11: 同性婚姻的争论



