


 Chapter 0: 课程介绍


这里是哲学176课
All right, so this is Philosophy 176. 这门课的内容是关于死亡
The class is on death. 我的名字是雪莱·卡根
My name is Shelly Kagan. 首先
The very first thing 我要说的就是  希望你们称呼我雪莱
I want to do is to invite you to call me Shelly. 也就是说  如果我们在街上碰见了
That is, if we meet on the street, 或是你来办公室找我谈话
you come talk to me during office hours, 请教我问题
you ask some question; 我会回应雪莱这个名字
Shelly's the name that I respond to. 当然  我也会回应卡根教授这个称呼
I will, eventually, respond to Professor Kagan, 不过我会反应慢一些
but the synapses take a bit longer for that. 因为对于这个称呼我并不敏感
It's not the name I immediately recognize. 我发现  过去这些年
I have found that over the years, 喜欢叫我雪莱的同学越来越少了
fewer and fewer students feel comfortable calling me Shelly. 我年轻的时候  还有不少人这么称呼我
When I was young, it seemed to work. 现在我"德高望重"了
Now I'm gray and august. 如果你们觉得这样叫顺嘴的话
But if you're comfortable with it, 我还是更喜欢你们这样称呼我
it's the name that I prefer to be called by. 现在  如我所说
Now, as I say, 这是一门关于死亡的课程
this is a class on death. 这是一门哲学课
But it's a philosophy class, 这就意味着我们在这门课
and what that means is that the set of topics 要讨论的一系列问题
that we're going to be talking about in this class 与其它关于死亡的课程
are not identical to the topics 所讲授的东西截然不同
that other classes on death might try to cover. 所以  首先我要说的是
So the first thing I want to do is say something 我们不会谈论那些
about the things we won't be talking about 你们可能强烈希望在
that you might reasonably expect or hope 死亡课程上听到的东西
that a class on death would talk about, 如果那样的话  这不会是你喜欢的课程
so that if this is not the class you were looking for, 你还有时间去选修其他的课
you still have time to go check out some other class. 我想要讲的东西是你们在
So here are some things that a class on death 其他死亡课上听不到的
could cover that we won't talk about. 首先我想到的是一些关于
What I primarily have in mind are sort of psychological 死亡本质和死亡现象的
and sociological questions about the nature of death, 一些心理学和社会学问题
or the phenomenon of death. 因此  一堂死亡课
So, a class on death 也许要好好讨论一下死亡的过程
might well have a discussion of the process of dying 以便让你们接受
and coming to reconcile yourself with the fact 人终会死去的事实
that you're going to die. 也许你们有人知道
Some of you may know 伊丽莎白·库伯勒·罗斯
about Elisabeth K��bler-Ross' discussion 所谓的死亡五部曲论述
of the so-called five stages of dying. 否认  愤怒
There's denial, and then there's anger, 然后是妥协
and then there's bargaining. 实际上我记不清这五个步骤
I actually don't remember the five stages. 我们也不会去讨论它
We're not going to talk about that. 同样
Similarly, 我们也不会讨论美国的丧葬行业
we're not going to talk about the funeral industry 以及他们如何敲诈百姓
in America and how it rips off people, 实际上就是这样
which it does, 在他们悲伤脆弱的时候
in their moments of grief and weakness 对他们提供的各种服务漫天要价
and overcharges them for the various things that it offers. 我们不会去讨论那些
We're not going to talk about that. 我们不会去讨论丧失亲友时悲伤的过程
We're not going to talk about the process of grieving or bereavement. 我们不会去讨论在我们的文化中
We're not going to talk about sociological attitudes 面对死亡的社会学态度
that we have towards the dying in our culture 以及我们如何试着去避免面对死亡
and how we tend to try to keep the dying hidden from the rest of us. 这些都是十分重要的话题
These are all perfectly important topics, 但是  如我所讲 它们不是
but they're not, as I say, 我们在这堂课上要讨论的话题
topics that we're going to be talking about in this class. 那么  我们要讨论什么呢
So what will we talk about? 我们要讨论的是当我们思考
Well, the things we'll talk about are philosophical questions 死亡本质或诸如此类的问题时  所产生的
that arise as we begin to think about the nature of death, 哲学疑问
like this. 大致说来
In broad scope, 这门课首先会讲到形而上学
the first half of the class is going to be metaphysics, 你们当中  熟悉哲学术语的人
for those of you who are familiar with 一定知道这个词
the philosophical piece of jargon. 课程的第二部分大致会谈到价值论
And roughly, the second half of the class is going to be value theory. 所以  课程的前半部分将会集中在
So, the first half of the class is going to be concerned 死亡本质的问题上
with questions about the nature of death. 我们死亡时发生了什么
What happens when we die? 事实上  要解决这个问题
Indeed, to get at that question, 我们首先要考虑的是  我们是什么
the first thing we're going to have to think about is what are we? 人是一种什么样的实体
What kind of an entity is a person? 特别是  我们有灵魂吗
In particular, do we have souls, 在这节课上   我所说的灵魂
and for this class when I talk about a soul, 是哲学中的术语
what I'm going to mean is sort of a bit of philosophical jargon. 我的意思是指某些非物质的东西
I'm going to mean something immaterial, 某些区别于我们身体的东西
something distinct from our bodies. 我们有非物质的灵魂吗
Do we have immaterial souls, 会有东西能够从身体的死亡中幸存吗
something that might survive the death of our body? 如果没有  那么死亡的本质意味着什么
And if not, what does that imply about the nature of death? 怎么样才称得上死亡
What kind of an event is death? 幸存对我来说是什么
What is it for me to survive? 假如我从死亡中幸存  这意味着什么
What would it mean for me to survive my death? 今晚活着对于我来说又意味着什么
What does it mean for me to survive tonight? 那就意味着
That is, you know, 周四  有人会在这儿讲课
somebody's going to be here lecturing to the class on Thursday, 可以推断  那个人就是我
presumably that will be me. 但是  如何证明
What is it for that person 周四站在这里讲课的人
who's there on Thursday to be the same person as the person 与今天在这里给大家讲课的是同一个人呢
who's sitting here lecturing to you today? 这些都是个人同一性的问题
These are questions about the nature of personal identity. 显而易见
Pretty clearly, 要想弄明白死亡和生存是怎么一回事儿
to think about death and continued existence and survival, 我们必须对个人同一性了然于心
we have to get clear about the nature of personal identity. 我们会用上半学期
These sorts of questions will occupy us 来讨论这些问题
for roughly the first half of the semester. 之后  我们会讨论到价值论
And then we'll turn to value questions. 如果死亡是终结  那么它是坏事吗
If death is the end, is death bad? 当然了  毫无疑问  大多数人
Now, of course, most of us are immediately 坚信死亡是件坏事
and strongly inclined to think that death is bad. 但是有许多关于死亡到底有多糟
But there are a set of philosophical puzzles 的哲学之谜
about how death could be bad. 让你们先来体会一下
To sort of give you a quick taste, 如果在我死后  我不存在了
if after my death I won't exist, 对我来说怎么会有坏事呢
how could anything be bad for me? 对于不存在的东西怎么会有坏事呢
How could anything be bad for something that doesn't exist? 那么  死亡怎么会是坏事呢
So how could death be bad? 所以  这么说并不是
So it's not that the result is going to be 我试图让你相信死亡不是坏事
that I'm going to try to convince you that death isn't bad, 但这的确要花点时间来准确地说清楚
but it takes actually a little bit of work to pin down precisely 什么让死亡成了坏事和怎样才算死亡
what is it about death that's bad and how can it be death? 使得死亡成为坏事的东西是否
Is there more than one thing about death 不止一件
that makes it bad? 我们可以这样想
We'll turn to questions like that. 如果死亡是件坏事
If death is bad, 那么有人也许会好奇
then one might wonder 是不是永生就是件好事了
would immortality be a good thing? 那就是我们要思考的问题
That's a question that we'll think about. 或者  更通俗地说
Or, more generally, 我们担心如果我们即将死去
we'll worry about how should the fact 将这会如何影响我们的生活
that I'm going to die affect the way I live? 我应该用怎样的态度对待不可避免的死亡
What should my attitude be towards my mortality? 比如  我应该害怕死亡吗
Should I be afraid of death, for example? 我该对我即将死去这个事实感到绝望吗
Should I despair at the fact that I'm going to die? 最后  我们将转入自杀问题
Finally, we'll turn to questions about suicide. 许多人认为既然生命是有价值的
Many of us think that given the valuable 无比珍贵的  那么
and precious thing that life is, 自杀就是毫无意义的
suicide makes no sense. 你放弃了你仅有的生命
You're throwing away the only life you're ever going to have. 我们将通过思考
And so we'll end the semester by thinking 自杀的合理性和道德性
about questions along the lines of the rationality 结束这个学期
and morality of suicide. 大致地讲
So roughly speaking, 这就是我们的课程安排
that's where we're going. 前半学期  形而上学
First half of the class, metaphysics; 后半学期  价值论
second half of the class, value theory. 下面我需要解释一点
Next thing I need to explain is this. 简单的说
There's, roughly speaking, 讲课有两种方法
two ways to do a class, 特别是像这种引论课
especially an introductory class like this. 方法一
In approach number one, 你们简单的列出不同的观点
you simply lay out the various positions, 正面和反面
pro and con, 老师争取保持中立
and the professor strives to remain neutral; 不表明他支持哪个观点
sort of not tip his hand about what he holds. 这是方法一
That's approach number one. 有时我会在介绍课上
And sometimes in my intro classes 采用这种方法
that's the approach that I take. 而另一种方法
But the other approach, 我要提醒你们
and the one that I should warn you 这个学期  在这门课上
I'm going to take this semester, 我的讲课方式将与平常不同
in this class, is rather different. 我会始终围绕一个观点来谈
There's a line that I'm going to be developing, 并推动和论证这个观点
pushing, if you will, or defending in this class. 也就是说
That is to say, 关于我们要讨论的问题
there's a certain set of views I hold 我会持有自己的观点
about the issues that we'll be discussing. 而我在课堂上要做的就是
And what I'm going to try to do in this class 与其它的观点辩论
is argue for those views. 说服你们并让你们相信我的观点是正确的
Try to convince you that those views are correct. 为了让你们先了解一下那些观点是什么
To help you know sort of ahead of time quickly what those views are, 我想先给大家介绍几种观点
I want to start by describing a set of views 你们中可能有人会相信它们
that many of you probably believe. 下面  我就给你们介绍这些观点
So I'm going to give you a cluster of views. 按理说
Logically speaking, 你们不会完全相信这些观点
you could believe some of these things and not all of them. 但有一些观点或许你们大多数人是赞同的
But here's a set of views that many of you probably believe, 我想你们至少会相信其中一部分
and I imagine most of you believe at least some of these things. 这是几种普遍的观点
So here's the set of common views. 第一  我们有灵魂
First of all, that we have a soul. 那就是说我们不仅仅只是个肉体
That is to say we are not just bodies. 我们不仅仅只是几块骨头和肉
We're not just lumps of bone and flesh. 我们身体中有一部分
But there's a part of us, 可能是极其重要的
perhaps the essential part of us, 比身体还重要得多
that is something more than the physical, 精神的  非物质的部分
the spiritual, immaterial part of us, 就像我在这说的灵魂
which as I say in this class we'll call a soul. 你们中的大多数人可能相信灵魂
Most of us, most of you, probably believe in souls. 当然大多美国人
Certainly most people in America 相信非物质的灵魂存在
believe in some sort of immaterial soul. 鉴于它们的存在
And given this existence of this immaterial soul, 有可能
it's a possibility, 也的确是有这样的可能
indeed a fair likelihood, 让我们能在死亡后继续存在
that we will survive our deaths. 死亡会破坏我们的身体
The death will be the destruction of my body, 但是我们的灵魂是非物质的
but my soul is immaterial 所以能在我们死亡之后仍然存在
and so my soul can continue to exist after my death. 不论你是否相信灵魂的存在
And whether or not you actually believe in a soul, 你希望它是存在的
you hope that there's a soul so 如果灵魂存在  你就能幸免于死
so that there'll be this serious possibility of surviving your death 因为死亡不仅糟糕而且极为恐怖
because death is not only bad, but so horrible 我们所希望的是
that what we would like to have happen is, 我们能够永远活着
we would like to live forever. 因此  拥有一个灵魂
And so, armed with a soul, as it were, 至少可以拥有永生的可能性
there's at least the possibility of immortality. 永生是一件很棒的事
Immortality would be wonderful. 我们希望能够永生
That's what we hope is the case, 无论这是否能够实现
whether or not we know that it's the case. 但永生无疑很棒
Immortality would be wonderful. 这就是为什么死亡是件坏事
That's why death's so bad. 因为它使我们丧失了永生的机会
It robs us of immortality. 如果没有灵魂
And if there is no soul, 如果死亡是完结
if death is the end, 如果没有永生
if there is no immortality, 那么在面对死亡这如此糟糕透顶的事情时
this is such an overwhelming bad thing that the only, 最明显的反应
the obvious reaction, 最自然的反应
the natural reaction, 最普遍的反应
the universal reaction, 当然会是恐惧和绝望
is to face the prospect of death with fear and despair. 就像我之前提到的
And as I mentioned earlier then, 死亡是可怕的  相反生命太美好了
death is so horrible and life is so wonderful 所以浪费生命是愚蠢的
that it could never make sense to throw it away. 自杀当然也是不道德且毫无意义可言的
So suicide is both immoral on the one hand and never makes sense. 另外这也是很不理性的
It's always irrational as well, in addition. 以上我说的是一些关于死亡本质的
That, as I say, is I think a common set of views 普遍观点
about the nature of death. 我接下来要做什么呢
And what I'm going to be doing, 我准备在这儿给你们证明的就是
what I'm going to be arguing in this class, 那个观点从头至尾
is that that set of views is pretty much mistaken 都是错的
from beginning to end. 我尝试让你们相信灵魂是不存在的
And so I'm going to try to convince you that there is no soul. 永生并不是一件好事
Immortality would not be a good thing. 对死亡感到恐惧是正常的反应
Fear of death isn't actually an appropriate response to death. 自杀有时候
Suicide, under certain circumstances, 也有可能是合理的  在道德上也是正当的
might be rationally and morally justified. 如我所言
As I say, 那个普遍观点从头到尾都是错的
the common picture is pretty much mistaken from start to end. 那至少是我的目标
That's at least my goal. 我的目的
That's my aim. 那就是我要做的
That's what I'm going to be doing. 现在  从这节课开始
Now, since of course, 我相信这个观点
I believe the views I believe... 也希望在这个学期末你们能赞同我
and I hope at the end of the semester you'll agree with me, 因为我相信那是真实的
because I think they're true 我希望你们最终会相信这个事实
and I hope you'll end up believing the truth. 但我得说关键不是
But I should say that the crucial point 你们要赞同我
isn't for you to agree with me. 关键在于让你们自己思考
The crucial point is for you to think for yourself. 我要你们做的就是冷静地
And so what I'm really doing is inviting you to take a good, 客观地看待死亡
cold, hard look at death, 并勇于面对  以一种我们从未
and to face it and think about it in a way 用过的方法去思考
that most of us don't do. 如果你在这个学期末
If you, at the end of the semester, 还是不赞同我的观点
haven't agreed with me about this particular claim 那也没关系
or that particular claim, so be it. 我也是满意的
I'll be content... 即使我不完全满意
I won't be completely content... 但至少我基本上是满意的
but I'll be at least largely content 只要你们已经深思熟虑了
as long as you've really thought 各种论证所存在的各种问题
through the arguments on each side of these various issues. 卡伦  现在你可以发
Karen, maybe this would be a good time for you 教学大纲了
to pass around the syllabus. 接下来要做的介绍是...
Next introductory remark: 今天说的很多东西都是以后讨论的重点
A lot of today's talk is going to be devoted to business. 如果时间允许
I'll get to, if time permits, 我会在最后讲一点哲学
some philosophy at the end. 我想再说明一下
I want to make one more remark about 在这节课上我们都会做些什么
what I'll be doing in terms of this class. 这节课就像我说的  是节哲学课
This class, as I say, is a philosophy class. 我们主要是坐在这里
We'll basically be sitting here thinking 用我们的推理能力来思考  关于死亡
about what we can know or make sense of with regard 我们能知道什么或者能弄清楚什么
to death using our reasoning capacity. 我们尝试从理性的角度去考虑死亡
We'll be trying to think about death from a rational standpoint. 有一种证据  一种论证
One kind of evidence or one kind of argument 我们不会在这里用到
that we won't be making use of here 那就是诉诸宗教权威
is appeal to religious authority. 比如说你们中的有些人相信
So some of you may believe in, for example, 有来世存在
the existence of an afterlife. 你可能相信你会在死后继续存在
You may believe you're going to survive your death. 你可能相信永生
You may believe in immortality 因为那是教会告诉你的
because that's what your church teaches you. 这没关系
And that's fine. 我并不打算
It's not my purpose or intention here 就你的宗教信仰和你争辩
to try to argue you out of your religious beliefs 或者跟它对立
or to argue against your religious beliefs. 我所要求的是
All I'm going to ask is 在这节课上  我们不诉诸这类宗教的论证
that we not appeal to such religious arguments, 不会诉诸启示或圣经的权威
appeal to revelation or the authority of the Bible, 或是诸如此类的论证
or what have you, in the course of this argument. 在这节课上  我们都不会涉及
In the course of this class. 如果你愿意
If you want to, 你可以把它想象成一个大的假设
you could think of this class as one big hypothetical. 我们能从死亡的本质得出什么样的结论
What conclusions would we come to about the nature 假如我们必须从
of death if we had to think about 世俗的观点考虑它呢
it from a secular perspective? 只用我们自己的推测
Making use of only our own reasoning, 尽管与神圣的权威
as opposed to whatever answers 所给出的答案截然相反
we might be given by divine revealed authority. 你们中那些相信神圣权威的人
Those of you who believe in divine revealed authority, 我们下次再来谈
that's a debate for another day. 这不是我们
It's not a debate 这学期要所要进行的讨论
that we're going to be engaged in here in this semester. 同样地  尽管我没有让你们
Similarly, although I'm not going to ask you 在讨论组里隐瞒你们的宗教观点
in your discussion sections to hide your religious views, 但我会让你在这门课上
you'll be asked in the course 为其辩护
of defending them, 给出理由  让我们所有人都理解
to give reasons that would make sense to all of us. 以上是我顺带提到的上课方式
That's by way of sort of where the class is going. 现在我们转到其他讨论上去
Let me now turn to some discussion 关于这个课程的要求
about the requirements of the class, 评分等等
grades and so forth and so on. 教学大纲已经发下去了
The syllabus is going around the class. 大多数人现在已经拿到手了
Almost all of you have it at this point. 这个教学大纲大部分并不能说明全部内容
The syllabus doesn't really say a whole lot. 我已经给你们大致介绍了一下
I've already given you an overview 我们将要进行的主题
of what topics we'll be going to. 教学大纲的关键点
The crucial point about the syllabus is 是指出了你们需要在制定时间内
that it indicates what reading you need to 所需读完的阅读材料
have done for any given week. 现在我已经尽力
Now, I've done my best 为每周要上的内容
to peg the readings to where 收集了足够多的阅读材料
I will be on that week's lecture, 但大部分时候我不按照讲稿来讲课
but I don't lecture with lecture notes, for the most part. 有时候我花的时间比预期的要长些
Sometimes I take a little bit longer than I anticipated. 实际上
Actually, 我花的时间常常要比我预期的长
I often take a little bit longer than I anticipated. 毫无疑问  有时我会多花些时间
No doubt at some point I'll fall behind. 有时我又急着想要超前
At some point I may rush to catch up ahead. 以下这种事情不是常会发生的
It won't always be the case 那就是
that the readings 阅读材料恰好与讲课内容一致
will exactly coincide with where the lectures are at. 尽管如此  你们还是需要
Nonetheless, in any given week, 在给定的时间内  即每星期的开始
for the start of that week, 读完每周的清单上
you should have done 所列出的阅读材料
the readings that are listed for that week. 大纲里的读物简单的地列出了作者名
The readings on the syllabus simply say the author, 而且很多书在书店里
and there are a couple of books 都可以找到
that are available at the bookstore. 大量的读物作为教材集
There are a larger packet of readings 你们可以在泰科[当地书店]
that's available as a course pack 那里找到
at Tyco's [local print shop]. 所以在给定的时间里你们可以找到那些书
And so for any given week you can find the reading. 或许会有一两种情况  实际上只有一种
One or two cases, maybe just one actually, 我不止找到某作者的一篇文章
where I've got more than one article by the given author, 我也会给出文章的标题
I've given the title of the article as well. 在给定的时间里
It shouldn't be difficult 找到材料应该不难
to locate the reading for any given week. 上课的模式  当然
The format of the class, of course, 是你们所熟悉而且直白的
is a familiar and straightforward one. 我每周会在这里讲两次课
I'll be sitting here lecturing twice a week, 上午的10:30到11:20
this time, 10:30 to 11:20. 每周你们都将被分成讨论小组
Once a week you will break up into discussion sections. 小组讨论将持续50分钟
The discussion sections will meet for 50 minutes. 你们每一个人都将有单独的时间
Each one of you will have a single time. 但与小组讨论的时间不会相冲突
But it'll be different times the discussion sections meet. 这是第一次
For the first time, 哲学系可以使用
the philosophy department has just switched over 在线讨论小组注册系统
to the online discussion section registration system. 它怎样运作我并不十分清楚
I'm not 100% certain how that works. 之前我对这个也不习惯
I've not used it before. 我想它是这么回事
I take it the idea is something like this. 现在  如果你加入了这个课程
Right now, if you were to shop the class, 你就能在上面找到具体的
you could find the tentative list of 日程时间安排
discussion section days and times. 以确保你有时间来进行讨论
So be sure to find some time that works for you. 实际上
You can't actually 你现在还不能注册进入讨论组
register for any of those discussion section times yet. 但我想
But as of, I think, 下周
next week 当你能够在线注册时
when you're able to begin your online registration, 你就能注册任何讨论小组了
you will be able to register for any discussion section 实际上
In fact, 你还不能注册这门课
you won't be able to finalize your registration for your courses 除非安排表上还有空余的位置
until you've actually signed up for an available slot. 一旦你注册了
Once you have registered, 如果之前一些满额的位置
if some other slots become available 现在空缺了
that weren't previously available, 系统会给你发送邮件
I gather you'll be sent some sort of email by the system, 看你什么时候有空
in case some other time would be better for you. 你可以把自己放进候选名单里等等
You can put yourself on waiting lists and so forth. 理论上听起来挺不错
It sounds pretty good on paper. 也许可以顺利实现
Maybe it'll all work smoothly. 我从未用过这玩意
I've never been through it before. 希望我们不会有什么问题
I hope we won't have any problems. 现在你们需要确定的是
Right now what you want to make sure 那些时间是否合适
is that there is a time that's available... 当然现在任何时间都可以
right now all the times are available... 但必须是要你有时间
but that there is a time that works for you. 因为如果你不能找到
Because if you can't find 一个适合的小组
a discussion section that works for you, 你就不能选这门课了
you won't be able to take this course. 对此有任何问题吗
Any questions about that? 实际上我应该问
I should actually ask, 目前为止
any questions about anything 对我所说的所有问题有疑问吗
that I've asked or said so far, up to this point? 让我说说我的这些问题
Let me make a remark about questions, 目前最主要的事是什么
which is--today's mostly business. 希望答案非常简单
Hopefully, it'll be fairly straightforward. 但是在今天以及整个学期里
But both today and throughout the entire semester, 在我讲课时
as I'm lecturing 你们可以打断我讲课  向我提问
I want to invite you to jump in with questions. 打断我讲课好像有点夸张了
Well, jump in is a bit of an exaggeration. 我不希望你们随意插话  但可以举手
I don't want you to just start talking, but raise your hand. 如果你们听不懂我在说什么
If I'm saying something that you don't understand, 那极有可能是
the chances are pretty good that 教室里其他25位或50位学生
there's 25 or 50 other students in the class 都没有听懂
who don't understand it either. 我只是没有表达清楚
I'm just not being clear. 所以我欢迎你们提问
So I want to welcome you, 我真的希望你们
I really want to invite you, 不管何时
whenever 你们对我说的有所回应  都能
you've got some reactions to the things that I'm saying, 举起你们的手  我会让你们说话
raise your hand, I'll call on you. 你们就说  雪莱  我真不明白
Say, "Shelly, I didn't really understand 你所说的灵魂问题
what you were saying about the soul. 能请您再解释一遍吗
Could you please explain that again?" 或者就某一观点
Or, for that matter, 如果你对我所说的
if you've got some quick reactions 某个论证有什么好的回应  好的想法
or thoughts or responses to the arguments 或是好的解答
that I'm laying out 并且你想和全班同学分享
and you want to share them with the class as a whole, 我会非常乐意你这样做的
then very much I want to invite you to do this. 这个班级太大了  让我们很难会有机会
Now this class is too big for us to have some close, 跟150到180个人进行亲密的交谈
intimate conversation between the 150-180, 当然具体人数我也不是很清楚
however many students there are here. 但那肯定是不可能的
That's not going to happen. 可是
But 小组间的详细讨论
the chance for detailed discussion , 这还是可以的
in the discussion section 这些讨论是必须的
that's where that should happen. 尽管如此  简要回应问题的机会
But still, there is the chance for brief reactions 提问的机会肯定还是有的
and definitely a chance for questions. 我很乐意你们那样做
I very much want to invite you to do that. 所以
So, 任何时候如果你有想问的东西
if at any point you've got something you want to ask about 或者你想要补充些什么东西
or some two bits you want to add, 请举手  摇晃起来  确保我能看见
raise your hand, wiggle it around, make sure I see you. 也许我想先讲完我之前所讲的东西
I may want to finish the particular point that I'm making, 但
but 随后我会把时间留给你们  接受你们的提问
I'll try to come back to you and I'll then raise your question. 如果我记住你的提问
And if I remember at least, 我会大声地把问题重复一遍
I will repeat the question out loud 让所有人都可以听到了
so that everybody can hear it. 我还想说  我会试着养成一种习惯
I also want to say that I will try to have the practice of, 如果课后你想继续讨论
after class ends, if you want to continue the discussion, 课程结束时
towards the end, 你脑子里突然冒出了某些想法
you have some questions that occurred to you, 之前却没有机会
we didn't have a chance 拿出来与全班分享
to share them with the class as a whole, 那么平时我们可以在课外继续交流
I will, on a normal day, meet outside and continue to talk with 不管有多少人想要交流
however many of you want to do that 我都会让你们满意
until you're done. 我就是喜欢谈论这些东西
I just love talking about this stuff 而且我也欢迎你在答疑时间来
and I welcome you to come to my office hours. 我希望你们在课上提问
I invite you to ask questions in class or, 如果你愿意的话  课后也行
if you prefer, after class as well. 再问一次  你们有什么问题吗
Again, any questions about any of that? 请说
Yeah. 我的答疑时间是什么时候
When are my office hours? 这真是个好问题
That's a great question and 连我也不知道问题的答案
I don't know the answer to it. 我还没有计划好
I haven't planned them yet. 星期四
On Thursday, 一上课就问我
start the class 那时再回答你吧
by asking me that and I'll give you an answer. 好吧
All right. 其它的事情
Other bits of business. 关于分数我应该说明一下
I should say something about grades. 你们中的大多数可能听说过
Now many of you may have heard, 有人可能知道
many of you may know, 如果你真的不知道
and if you don't already know this, 那么我要警告你
I should warn you, 我在耶鲁
that I have a reputation around Yale 是出了名的严厉
as being a harsh grader. 这是真的
I know this is true, that is, 而我之所以有这样的名声
I know I have the reputation, both because 是因为在学生定期评估时
I periodically in my student evaluations 我被评为耶鲁最严厉的人之一
get told I'm one of Yale's harsher graders, 还因有时"耶鲁日间新闻"的文章里
and because every now and then the Yale Daily News 会谈到关于成绩膨胀[平均成绩上升]的事
will have an article about grade inflation 然后人们总会问我
and they'll always ask me, " "卡根教授是这样一个人..."
Well Professor Kagan is somebody..." 一旦有关于成绩膨胀的故事
Once there was a story on grade inflation 耶鲁日间新闻会从下面这句话开始
that the Yale Daily News began by saying, " "雪莱·卡根
As Shelly Kagan 耶鲁最严厉的老师之一"
(known at Yale as one of the hardest graders)." 这起码让我知道
So I know I've got at least the reputation 我有严厉这个名声
of being a hard grader. 我不知道这名声是不是我应得的
I don't actually know whether it's deserved or not, 因为耶鲁并无明文规定
because Yale does not publish information about 一般评分标准是什么
what the grading averages are. 在其他我曾授课的学校
At other schools I've taught at 却有此规定  比如人文学科
there's been information along the lines of well 入门课程典型的评分标准
the typical grade in an introductory course 是怎样怎样的
in the humanities is such and such. 我刚来耶鲁没几天
Shortly after I came here to Yale, 就发现人们认为
and I started realizing that people thought 我在评分上比大多耶鲁教授都严格
I was a harder grader than most other Yale professors, 我打电话问过教务处
I called the administration and asked, 你们是不是有这方面的规定呢
"Do you have this sort of information?" 回答是  "是"
The answer is "Yes." "能不能让我看看呢"
"Will you give it to me?" 回答是 "不能"
The answer was "No." 他们不把这种规定给耶鲁教员们看
They don't share this information with the Yale faculty. 有点奇怪吧
Seems odd. 当然  这也不难解释
The explanation, of course, actually isn't that hard to come by. 他们担心我们这些严格的评分者
The worry is that those of us who are harder graders than average, 在这类信息发布后
if the information were published, 会因为内疚而稍把评分提高
would feel guilty and sort of ease up on our grading. 而那些评分本来就比较松的
But those who are easier graders 根本不会觉得内疚  不会因此更严格
than average will never feel guilty and toughen up. 这样一来结果就是分数一直往上升
So the result would be a constant push up with the grades. 虽然
At any rate, 不确定我是否评分严格
I don't know for certainty that I'm a harder grader, 但相信应该就是这如此
but I believe that it's the case 就我每次讲课所得到的反应而言
based on reactions I get when I give the speech that I'm about to give. 就这样吧
Okay, so. 我打开那本蓝皮书  耶鲁指导手册
When I open the blue book, the Yale guideline, 耶鲁目录  有这么一页
the Yale catalog, it's got a page, 是说耶鲁每个评分字母表示什么
as you all know, where it says what letter grades mean at Yale. 我今年没把那张纸带过来
I didn't actually bring it this year. 我有时会带  不过现在差不多背下来了
Sometimes I do, but I've got it pretty much memorized. 比方说  每个字母表旁边都注明了含义
It says, for example, next to each letter grade what it means. 比如  B表示好
B, for example, means good. A表示优秀
A means excellent, C表示良好
C means satisfactory, D是合格
D is passing, F是不及格
F is failing. B  我们先来说B
B, let's start with B. B表示好
B means good. 现在关键问题是  好是什么意思
Now the crucial question then is what does good mean? 我认为好就是好  如此一来
I take good to mean good. Consequently, 如果你给我写了篇好论文
if you were to write a good paper for me, 就会拿B
that would get a B. 如果你从我这儿拿了个B
And when you get a B from me... 我这里说的是我  是指我本人
now, I say me, this is the royal me. 因为我并不会亲自给你们的论文评分
Because I won't actually be grading your papers. 给你们论文评分是一小队助教
Your papers will be graded by a small army of TAs. 但他们是在我的指导下评分的
But they will grade under my supervision, 也会遵守我告诉他们的评分标准
and in keeping with the standards that I ask them to grade with. 所以如果你们因为分数而愤怒
So when you're pissed off about your grade, 你们要找的人
the person to take it up with... 就是他们啦
well, take it up with them. 但最后你会想要来找我
But eventually you'll want to take it up with me. 所以如果你从我们这儿拿了个B
So when you get a B from us, B不是说你写的东西是垃圾
B doesn't mean what a piece of crap. B是做得好  你拿了B应该高兴才是
B means good job! And so you should be pleased to get a B, 因为你做的好啊
because it meant you were doing good work 而且在哲学课上做到好可不容易
and it's not easy to do good work in philosophy. A是优秀
A means excellent. 优秀并不是说你可以拿去发表了
Now excellent does not mean publishable. 优秀也不是说你是上帝赐给哲学界的礼物
Excellent does not mean you are God's gift to philosophy. 所以你们要理解的是拿到A
So it's crucial to understand it doesn't mean 并不是唯一可以证明你就是
that the only way you're going to get an A 上帝赐给哲学界的礼物的途径
is to be God's gift to philosophy. A只是对哲学初学者而言的最大褒奖
A means excellent work for a first class in philosophy. 这只是启蒙课
This is an introductory class. 是在假设你们没有任何哲学背景下进行的
It does not presuppose any background in philosophy. 但依旧  要想拿到A
Still, to get an A, 你们得表现出一点资质
you've got to show some flair for the subject. 不只是表现出你们理解
You've got to show not only have you understood the ideas 那些阅读中的  课堂上的
that have been put forward in the readings 及其他内容的观点
and in the lectures and so forth, 你们还得想办法在论文中把他们整合起来
but you see how to sort of put them together in the paper in a way 显得你们有点天分
that shows you've got some aptitude here. 要让我们觉得值得注意并记下来
You did it in a way that made us take note. A是给这类人准备的
That's what we try to reserve As for. 你们中会有些人拿A
Some of you will end up getting As, 即时刚开始没有
if not at the beginning, 学期末也会有
by the end of the semester. 你们中会有很多人拿B
Many of you will end up getting Bs, 即时不是在刚开始
if not at the beginning, 到学期末也会有
by the end of the semester. 很多人在刚开始时不会很棒
Many of you will not start out doing good work. 很多人刚开始时只能说令人满意
Many of you will start out doing satisfactory work or, 或者说实话  甚至不太令人满意
truth be told, less than satisfactory work. 我以前也是本科生
Now look, I was an undergraduate once. 我也知道一般的本科生论文是怎么写的
And I know what it is to write a typical undergraduate paper. 交论文前一晚坐下后  想出了几个点子
You sit down the night before and you had a couple of ideas. 你想了大概半个小时
You thought about it maybe for a half an hour. 本来是打算早点开始准备的
And you meant to get to it sooner, 但你总有很多别的事要做
but you had a lot of other things to do. 你花几个小时写出来  也许还熬夜了
And you throw it off in a couple of hours and maybe stay up late. 你知道那不是你写过的最差的东西
You know it's not the worst thing you ever wrote, 也不是最好的
and it's not the best thing you ever wrote, 里面也有几个不错的主意
and it has a couple of nice ideas, 但也许本来可以写得更好一点
but maybe it could be better. 只能说还算令人满意
It's sort of a satisfactory job. 耶鲁认为令人满意就是C
Yale says satisfactory means C. 你们中很多人在学期初会把论文写成那样
So many of you will start off the semester writing that kind of paper. 问题是
And the fact of the matter is, 有些人开始时的论文会比那更糟
some of you will start off writing worse papers than that. 因为哲学论文
Because writing a philosophy paper 不是那么容易写的
is a difficult thing to learn how to do. 写哲学论文是需要一些实力的
It's exercising a set of muscles 你们很多人平时并没有练习写过
that a lot of you have not spent a lot of time exercising. 并不是说你们从来没有花时间做过
Now it's not as though you haven't spent any time doing it. 你们和高中朋友们
You've had bull sessions, right, 大学舍友等等有过闲聊
with your high school friends or in your college dorm or what have you. 但你们从未按照我们
But you haven't done it with the kind of discipline 标准严密的要求写过
and rigor that we're looking for here. 所以正如其他事一样
So, like anything else, 这个技巧在练习中会进步
it's a skill that gets better with practice. 当然这也就是说
And what that means, of course, 你们刚开始时做的不会太好
is you won't do as well at the beginning 我们期望你们在最后会更好一些
as you're likely to be doing toward the end. 其中有些人  很遗憾
Some of you, unfortunately, 在开始时表现不会很好
won't do very good jobs at the beginning... 我会鼓励我的助教们做好给D的准备
and my TAs, I'll encourage them to be prepared to give Ds. 如果论文的缺点明显比优点多
If the vices of the paper significantly outweigh the virtues, 那就是D
that's a D. 如果论文毫无可取之处
If the vices very significantly outweigh whatever virtues there are, 那大概就是F了
that's some kind of an F. 实际上  你们中很多人在第一篇论文上
So the fact of the matter is many of you in your initial papers 所得的分数可能比
will get lower grades than you've probably 你们这小半辈子得过的都低
ever gotten before in your life. 我只是想要警告你们一下
I wanted to warn you about that. 我说这些不是想吓坏你们
Now I say this not so much to depress the hell out of you, 只是警告你们一下
but (a) partly to warn you, 并且说清楚  我认为这只是种技能
and (b) to make it clear that I believe that it's a skill. 写一篇好哲学论文是一种技巧
Writing a good philosophy paper is a skill 并且你会越写越好
and you can get better at it. 因此  你们中大部分人会做得越来越好
Consequently, most of you will get better at it. 所以  让我把下面的话说完
So let me make the following remark. 三篇五页长的论文  每篇论文
Officially, each paper--you have three five-page papers. 占分数的百分之二十五  这是规定的
Each paper is worth 25% of your grade, officially. 剩下的百分之二十五是小组讨论
But--the remaining 25% is discussion section; 我等一下会谈这个
I'll get to that in a minute-- 按规定  每一篇论文都占百分之二十五
officially, 25% of your grade is for each of the three papers. 但如果你在这学期的课程中
But if, over the course of the semester, 进步了  那么我们会
you get better, then we will give, 在学期末
at the end of the semester, 当我们算出你的分数后
when we're figuring out your semester grade, 我们会给之后那篇
we'll give the later, 较好的论文更大的分值比重
stronger papers more than their official weight. 对大部分人而言
For many of you, 第一篇论文会很明显是最差的一篇
the first paper will be clearly the worst paper you write. 那么我们会把这篇论文的分数扔到一边
And then we'll just throw that grade away; 给第二三篇论文更大比重
give greater weight to the second and third papers. 如果第三篇论文最好
If the third paper is the strongest, 我们会让第三篇论文占更大的比重
we will give even more weight to the third paper. 这没什么公式定律
There's no formula here, 主要是看整体情况
a great deal depends on the overall pattern, 也就是助教告诉我
what your TA tells me about 你们这学期的学习情况
how you've done over the course of the semester. 这个针对你们表现进步所给予的
But this policy of giving greater weight, 更大分值比重的方针
if you show improvement, 是你们可以从中受益的方针
is something that most of you will benefit from. 所以如果你们最终没有得到好成绩
So if you end up not doing well, 这个分数政策不是想让你们退却或是退课
the moral of the story is not to go running off and dropping the class, 而是去思考你所做的对的事
but to figure out what you did right, 和不对的事
what you didn't do right, 以及怎样让接下来的
how to make the second paper better 论文写得更好
and the third paper stronger, again. 如果你有了明显的进步
And if you do show improvement, 那将会有很显著地影响
that will very significantly influence 并在你的分数及
and emerge in terms of the impact it has 学期总评上显示出来
on your overall semester grade. 因为这个政策
Because of this policy, 我其实不知道当所有都
I don't actually know when all is said 按章进行后  学期末的评分是否依然较低
and done whether at the end of the semester I'm any harder, 分数是否偏离了平均水平
whether I depart from the average or not. 我简单介绍一下一般的绩分布情况
Let me quickly mention there's a fairly typical grade distribution 对于期末的学期总评来说
for the overall grades of this, at the end of the semester. 大概有百分之二十五的人
Roughly 25% of you are likely to end up 学期末会拿到A
with some kind of an A at the end of the semester. 百分之五十至五十五的人会拿到B
fifty 55% of you or so are likely to end up with some kind of a B. 百分之二十至二十五的人会拿到C
Twenty,25% percent of you might end up with some sort of a C. 有时少数人的分数会低于C
Sometimes there's a couple of percent that end up worse than that. 你有能力完成像样的作业  这不足为奇
Unsurprisingly, you've got the ability to do decent work in this class 大多数人有能力完成好的作业
and most of you have the ability to do good work, 绝大多数人
and some of you have, a fair chunk of you have, 有能力完成优秀的作业
the ability to do excellent work, 尽管这需要花一些功夫才能做到
though it may take some work on your part to get to that point. 最后我该说一下为什么我要这样做
The last thing I should say about the grades is why do I do this? 我真的是出于对你们的尊重才这么做的
It's really I try to do it as a sign of respect for you. 我知道这听起来很奇怪
I know that may seem like a surprising thing to say 在我有些幸灾乐祸地说完
when I've just sort of gone on my little gleeful amount about 我会如何让你们集体挂掉之后
how I'm going to fail all of you, 但你们值得我称赞  你们非常聪明
but it's worth my saying you guys are so smart. 你们非常有才
You're so talented. 你们已经通过自己的能力走到现在
You've gotten so far on your ability 并且很多人已学会轻而易举收获成功
that many of you have learned to coast. 你们可能不需要靠完成学业来获得成功
It's not doing you any kind of service to let you continue coasting. 我想要的是诚实的与你们相对  对吧
My goal here is to be honest with you, right? 你们大多数人也许足够聪明
Look, you're smart enough probably most of you 最终毫不费力就可以得到B
to pull off some sort of B without breaking into a sweat, 或是至少花点功夫
or at least not a significant sweat. 这没关系
So be it. 但是  你这是在自欺欺人
But it's just lying to you to pretend 你是在佯装你精通哲学
that that's excellence in philosophy. 所以我想在这门课里和你们坦诚相待
So what I want to do in this class is be honest with you 并告诉你们
and tell you, "你们真的是在学东西
"You've really done work here 你们该为自己感到为豪"
to be extraordinarily proud of yourself" 而不是说"你们做的差强人意"
versus "Yeah, you've done something okay" 或是"你们干的不错
or "You've done good work. 诚然  虽不是优秀
Admittedly, it's not great, 但也算不错了"
but you've done good work." 百分之七十五的分数取决于论文
All right, that's 75% of your grade is the papers. 剩下的百分之二十五基于小组讨论
The remaining 25% of your grade is based on discussion section. 小组讨论可是占了很大的分数比例
Now that's a lot of your grade to turn on discussion section. 所以我和你们说的第一件事  就是我是认真的
So the first thing I need to tell you is I really mean it. 如果你们不在小组讨论好好表现
If you blow off discussion section, 你们的分数会很低
you're grade will suffer. 你们需要知道的是  你们在小组讨论时
So it's worth knowing in a general way what you need to do 如何做才能得到比较高的分数  答案是
to earn a good grade in discussion section and here the answer is, 同样这也是最明显的
perhaps the obvious one, 你需要去参与
you need to participate. 你需要去参与讨论
You need to come to discussion sections 给出自己的想法
having thought about the lectures, 去读阅读材料
having done the readings, 去思考他们提出的问题
having thought about the questions that they raise, 并且你需要去讨论
and you need to come to discussion section 然后准备这个星期要讨论的问题
then prepared to discuss this week's set of issues. 你需要去聆听你的同学所说的
You need to listen to what your classmates are saying 并说明为什么你不同意他们
and say why you disagree with them. 不仅是说出你不同意他们
And not just that you disagree with them, 还要提出反驳的理由
but to raise an objection. 或者为什么你同意他们的观点
Or why you agree with them. 当其他人攻击他们时
And when somebody else then attacks them, 你得说  "我觉得约翰说得很对
say, "Look, I think that what John was saying was a good point 我认为他该这样维护他的立场"
and here's how I think he should have defended his position," 或者说出你的看法
or what have you. 你需要参与到哲学讨论中去
You need to engage in philosophical discussion. 如果你不参与讨论
If you're not participating in discussion section, 那你就没有完成讨论的目的
you're not doing what the section is there for. 哲学家爱谈论  同样也爱辩论
Philosophers love to talk and we love to argue. 只有通过通过谈论哲学
The way to get better at thinking about philosophy 才能让我们更好地了解哲学
is by talking about philosophy. 这就是我让你们积极参与讨论的原因
So I'm putting my money where my mouth is. 我是说"嘿
I'm saying, "Look, yeah, 那是这门课很重要的一部分
that's an important part of the class. 重要到要占分数的百分之二十五"
So important that it's going to be worth 25% of your grade." 再次重申  这不是意味着
Again, it doesn't mean... 这和论文有些区别
this is slightly different from the papers... 不是说你要有渊博的哲学知识才能得到A
that you've got to be brilliant philosophically to get an A. 而是  你需要在课堂环节上
Rather, you've got to be a wonderful class citizen 成为一个很棒的学生才能得到A
to get an A for discussion section. 所以  我把它放到了教学大纲里
So, as I put it, in fact I think I put it this way on the syllabus, 参与  在这里我是指要相互尊重的参与
participation--and here I mean respectful participation, 而不是想出风头的那种
not hogging the limelight... 参与能够加分
participation can improve your grade, 而不会使你的分数变少
but it won't lower your grade. 不参与  或是不出勤
Nonparticipation, or not being there, 那将会扣分
that will lower your participation grade. 有任何问题关于这个的吗
Any question about any of that? 那好
All right. 我抱歉说了这么冗长的规矩
So I'm sorry to have sort of the long gloom and doom, 但这些可以让你们了解
but it seems that it's only fair to let you know 你们将要面对什么
what you're getting into. 另一个关于小组讨论我要强调的是
One other remark about the discussion sections. 我认为这就像是
The way I think of it is like 你们在外语课堂上的对话时间
the conversation hour for your foreign language class. 你们中有多少人以前上过哲学课
How many of you have had a philosophy class before? 谢谢  也许有百分之十五
Thanks. Maybe 15% of you. 或是百分之二十
Maybe 20% of you. 大多数都没上过
Most of you have not. 这很正常
That's pretty normal. 不要在小组讨论上这样想
Don't go into discussion section thinking, "我不知道说什么  我没有哲学基础
"Oh, I can't talk. I don't have any background in philosophy. 我从来没有做过这种事"
I've never done this sort of thing before." 对于大多数人来所  这是事实
That's true for most of you. 你们慢慢适应的方法  只有谈论哲学
The way you get better is by talking philosophy. 好  下一件事
All right. Next remark. 这应该是与你们分数相关的
I guess this is sort of just one last connection 最后一件事了
with regard to grades. 这是堂哲学导论课
This is an intro philosophy class. 导论课程的关键就是这是第一堂哲学课
The crucial point about intro is it means first class in philosophy. 它并不需要任何哲学基础
It doesn't presuppose any background in philosophy. 但这不表示它简单
It doesn't necessarily mean easy. 其中一些内容对某些人来说
Some of this material for some of you is going to be very, 将会非常难
very difficult. 并且尽管你们要读的材料
And although the number of pages that you'll have to read are not... 不是太多
there's not a lot. 也许是一个星期内五十页  或许更少
Probably in a typical week, 50 pages, maybe less. 对大多数人来说
For many of you, 你们可能会觉得这些内容很难懂
you're going to find it dense material. 而且我也不认为
And although I don't really have the fantasy 你们有些人会读两遍
that many of you will read this stuff twice, 如果你们有时间的话
if you had the time to do it, 那将会是非常值得去做的事
that would be a wonderful thing to do. 哲学是很难读懂的东西
Philosophy is hard stuff to read. 另一件关于这门介绍课要说的是
Other remark about this being an intro class 我们对一些问题的介绍
is that it's introductory in that the issues 都是你们头一回听说的
that we're talking about are kind of first run through. 每一件我们在这讨论的
Every single thing that we discuss here 都有可能到一个更深的境界
could be pursued at greater depth. 例如  我们会花时间讨论一些问题
So, for example, we'll spend whatever it is, 也许用了一个半星期谈论
maybe a week and a half talking about 个人同一性  或许花了两星期
the nature of personal identity, two weeks. 但是也有人会花一整个学期
But one could easily spend an entire semester 独自思考那个问题
thinking about that question alone. 所以不管我们讨论什么
So don't come away thinking that whatever it is 都不要以为那些
that we've talked about here in lecture 只能在课堂上思考
is the last word on the subject. 更确切地说  它只是这个问题的开始
Rather, it's something more like first words. 我还想再说一点关于阅读材料的事
Actually, one other word about the readings and the lectures. 有一个例外
With one exception, 我不会花很多时间讨论阅读材料的内容
I won't be spending very much time talking about the readings. 而这个例外就是柏拉图
The exception is Plato, 也许我会讲上两节课
where I'll lecture, maybe two lectures, 我会重现柏拉图的主要论证
trying to reconstruct Plato's central arguments, 至少这些论证和我们课程相关
at least the arguments relevant to our class. 我们将会读一段柏拉图的对话
We'll be reading one of Plato's dialogues. 但是大部分时候
But for the most part, 尽管我将不时地
although I'll occasionally, 偶尔地提及课外阅读材料
periodically refer to the readings, 但我不会花很多时间谈论书中的观点
I won't spend a lot of time talking about the views in the readings. 因为你应该把那些书当作是我上课的补充
The readings you should think of as complementary to my lectures. 它们会比我所讲的内容更为丰富
The idea is that there's more to say than what I've said. 你将会在阅读中发现在更多的知识
And you'll find some more of what there is to say in the readings. 或者我会提到其中的观点
Or there may be positions that I mention, 但我不会展开去谈
but I don't develop, 因为我无法与其产生共鸣
because I'm not perhaps sympathetic to them, 而你可能在阅读中
and you might find 找到与其产生共鸣的人
somebody who is sympathetic to them, 并得到更深入的领悟
developing them in the readings. 阅读材料是本课程最关键的组成部分
The readings are a crucial component of the class. 只听课无法让你得到所需的全部知识
You won't get everything you need simply by coming to the lectures. 于此相同的是
But equally the case, 我在讲座中展开讨论的观点
that the views that I'll be developing in the lectures are, 尽管也不全是我的个人观点
although not necessarily unique to me, 但你们也不是都能在阅读材料里找到
aren't all laid out in the readings. 如果你只是一味地阅读
You won't get everything I'm talking about in the lectures, 你也无法了解我讲课的全部
if all you do is the readings. 因为阅读与听课都是本课程的组成部分
They're both parts of the class. 好的  我想以此结尾
All right. I want to end by... 我其实还没说完
I'm not close to ending, 但我想说的最后一件事
but the last thing I'm going to do 是大声念出一些学生的评价
is read aloud some student evaluations. 我发现这些年来有些学生喜欢我
I have found over the years that some students like me; 有些学生不喜欢我
some students don't like me. 最能明确这个问题的方法就是
I don't know how to make this point any clearer 和你们分享一些学生的抽样评估
than to share with you a sampling of the student evaluations. 这些不是来自上学期的评估
These are not actually from last spring, 但是它们足够典型了
but they're typical enough 我都懒得举新的例证
that I was too lazy to make some new quotes. 例一
Quote one. 这些都是来自之前真实学生的原话
These are actual quotes from former actual students. 一  "讲座十分明了并符合逻辑顺序"
(1) "The lectures were clear and followed a very logical order." 二  "我认为课程有时缺乏条理性"
(2) "I thought the class was not always organized." 三 "我认为课程编排十分具有条理性"
(3) "I thought it was a very well organized class." (四) "总体来说  我对本课程不满意"
(4) "Overall, I was unsatisfied with this course. 几乎没得出什么实质性的结论"
Few substantive conclusions were reached." 五 老生常谈
(5) Along the same vein, " "我觉得他没必要
I think he should avoid saying 每个论证完结后都说
at the end of each segment of the class, 最终  你还得自己决定如何看待这个问题"
Ultimately, you'll have to decide what to think for yourself." 我该这么说来结束课程
I should end the class by saying, " "你会相信的"
You will believe." 事实上  刚上课时我就说了
Actually, I started the class by saying that. 你将会相信我所相信的
You will believe what I believe. 六  "更客观地阐述一些观点
(6) "It might be improved by presenting other views better 或许会好一些
and more objectively, 因为卡根总是用他独有的论点
since Kagan always ended a particular line 来驳斥他不赞同的论证
of reasoning by defeating the argument if he didn't agree with it. 他可以更公正地容忍其他观点"
He could be a bit more unbiased and tolerant of other perspectives." 七  "上课内容有时重复或是毫无新意
(7) "Lectures were sometimes repetitive or obvious, 但偶尔会提出新的观点"
but occasionally, they provided new insights." 八  "我知道有人认为论证过程有点慢
(8) "I know that some felt the pace of the arguments was a little slow, 但我感觉这样做还是有必要的
but I felt that this was generally necessary, 不只是为了不懂哲学的同学们
not only for the unphilosophy-savvy population, 也是为了能覆盖所有内容"
but also to cover all points." 九 "十分全面周到
(9) "Extremely thorough and thoughtful. 接受所有提问  太棒了" 我喜欢这条
Receptive to questions. Brilliant." I like that one. "经常罗嗦冗长"
"Often long-winded." Hmmm. 十  "他的确一遍遍重复同样的观点
(10) "He does go around and around the same idea a number of times, 可这减少了课程的笔记
which does cut down on the notes for the class, 但是会让人感到有点无聊"
but it can get a little boring." 十一  "尽管听有些同学说他经常自言自语
(11) "Though I've heard students say he often repeats himself, 但我认为对于哲学课而言这是一个优点
I think this is a merit in a philosophy course 因为论证和思路很容易混淆"
in which arguments and thoughts can quickly become confusing." 十二 "雪莱·卡根是个完美的
(12) "Shelly Kagan is a fabulous, 足智多谋的  让人彻底信服的演讲者"
resourceful, utterly convincing lecturer." 十三 "他能在大家面前论证论点"
(13) "He would work through arguments right in front of--" 我喜欢这条
I like this one, 因为这是我对自己的最低目标
because this is what I at least aim to be inside my head. 这就是我一直在做的
Here's what I'm doing. 十三  "他能在我们面前论证论点
Thirteen: "He would work through arguments right in front of us, 这样有助于我自己对其进行论证"
which then helped me work through them on my own." 十四  "雪莱是位不可思议  精力充沛的老师"
(14) "Shelly is an incredibly dynamic lecturer." 十五  "他只是在自己的世界里胡说八道
(15) "He's just in his own world babbling on and on. 我常常心不在焉"
I'd zone out with regularity." 十六  "我不得不说雪莱·卡根很可能是
(16) "I have to say that Shelly Kagan is probably 我在耶鲁四年所遇到的最好的老师"
the best lecturer I had in my four years at Yale." 十七  "他是那种让人又爱又恨的老师"
(17) "He's the type of teacher you either love or hate." 这估计是真的
Now that's pretty clearly true. 我希望能有一种简单的石蕊测试
I wish there were some easy litmus test 来给你们测试  然后你们会知道
that I could just give you so you'd know 你们谁上这门课是一个错误
which of you would be making a mistake taking this class. 我不知道如何做这个测试
I don't know how to give it to you. 下一个话题  分数
Next topic, grades. 一  "他经常用难以做到的
(1) "He tried to intimidate us too much 评分标准来吓唬我们
with his promise of impossible grading 以至每个人都想去报Cr/D/F的课程
so that everyone took the class credit/D/fail, 但最后我们几乎都得了A或B
when we all probably ended up with As or Bs. 他打分显然不是那么苛刻"
His grading was not hard." 二  "我推荐这门课  只是因为Cr/D/F罢了
(2) "I recommend it, but only credit/D/fail. 卡根教授的打分太严苛了"
Professor Kagan is harsh with grading." 三  "当雪莱说他是全校最严格的评分老师时
(3) "When Shelly says he's the harshest grader on campus, 他没有撒谎
he isn't lying. 我一直很惊讶
I was consistently surprised by 我的论文究竟有多糟糕
how poorly I did on papers. 这门课的标准和
The standards in this class are just different from 所有其他的课都不同"
all other classes." 四  "卡根打分严格的谣言  纯属无中生有
(4) "Kagan's reputation as a harsh grader is unfounded. 如果你付出了努力
If you put in the effort, 分数就是最好的体现"
the grade will reflect that." 所以这就解决了我是否对打分严苛的问题
So that settles the question am I a harsh grader or not. 评估的最后一个问题是
The last question for the evaluation is 你是否来上课
should you take the class or not? 你是否向其他人推荐这门课
Would you recommend it to somebody else? 一  "我认为我生命中思维最开放的
(1) "I believe this class is 一段经历就是上了这门课"
one of the most mind-opening experiences of my life." 二  "不  这是在浪费时间"
(2) "No. It's a waste of a course." 三  "这门课有时会令人感到失望
(3) "It gets kind of depressing at times, 但我认为这应归咎于这门课本身"
but I suppose that's due to the nature of the subject." 四  "这门课比我在耶鲁上过的任何
(4) "This course stands out as one of the more unique 课程都独一无二且令人激动"
and stimulating courses I've taken at Yale." 五  "精彩的一门课
(5) "Excellent class. 它让我以一种全新的方式思考生命与死亡
It made me think about life and death in a new way. 你还能从一门课中要求什么呢"
What more can you ask for from a class?" 六  "我绝不推荐这门课
(6) "I would not recommend it. 它看起来就像一场演出
The class just seemed to be a platform 演出内容就是卡根随口抛出一些观点
for Kagan to throw out random ideas 而学生们从没被要求参与其中"
and the students were never required to engage in any thought." 这部分评估读完了
Well, that clears that up. 让我用一些其它的短评论来做结尾
Let me end with a couple of other quick remarks. 这些是我早些年的最爱
One--these are some of my all-time favorites from previous years. 一  "不看课外阅读对我全无影响"
(1) "Not doing the reading didn't hurt me at all." 这些是匿名评论
Now, these are anonymous comments. 我不知道谁写的这条评论
I don't know who wrote this comment. 但我知道
But I do know this. 无论谁写的这条评论  他就是个白痴
Whoever wrote this remark is an idiot. 无论谁写的这条评论  都应该铭记
Whoever wrote this remark seems to be under the impression 你父母每年花费四万美金供你在耶鲁上学
that the point of being at Yale is to spend $40,000 a year of 你应该尽可能地学到最多的知识
your parents' money and get away with learning as little as possible. 对于那些想要尝试这样做的人
Well, for those of you who want to try it, 你很可能顺利通过这门课
you probably could pass this class 甚至可能得到一个不错的分数
and maybe even get an okay grade 即时你不看课外阅读
without doing the readings. 本课没有期末考试
There's no final exam. 但仍旧  你必须知道
But still, it's crucial to understand, 想要学好这门课
doing the readings is an important part of learning 课外阅读是非常重要的
what this course has to offer. 不同的例证  "卡根是一个自以为是的小个子"
Different quote. "Kagan is a self-righteous little man" 现在我必须告诉你们
Now I've got to tell you, 说我小个子  真的很伤人
that bit about being little, that really hurts. 另一个  "伟大的课程  了不起的教授
Another one. "Great course. Wonderful professor. 吸引人的课题
Fascinating subjects. 令我进行了生命中最为深刻的思考"
The deepest thinking I've done in my life." 最后一例  "这门课比耶鲁大学的
Final quote. "This class taught me 任何人都教会了我如何思考"
how to think more than any other at Yale." 我不知道我是否成功
I don't know whether I pull it off. 很明显
Pretty obviously, 对于不少学生而言
for a number of students, 我没能让他们收获更多
I don't manage to pull it off, 但那至少是我的目标
but that's at least what my aim is. 我在试着帮助你们思考
I'm trying to help you think. 欢迎并期待下星期四你们的到来
I welcome you and I hope you'll be back on Thursday. 



 Chapter 1: 人的本质： 二元论与物理主义


我们要讨论的第一个问题是
The first question we want to discuss has to do 我是否可能幸免一死
with the possibility of my surviving my death. 死后能否继续活着
Is there life after death? 是否有可能
Is there a possibility that 死后我依然存在  或是我能幸免于死
I might still exist or survive after my death? 乍看之下...实际上
Now at first glance...and in fact, 只有深入考虑才能得出真相
I think, at second glance it's going to turn out to be true-- 在回答这个问题前
you might think that the answer to this question 需要先弄清楚两点
would depend on two basic issues. 我能幸免于死吗
Do I survive my death? 我们能幸免于死吗
Do we survive our deaths? 首先
You think, the first thing 我们要明白人究竟是什么
we have to get clear on is well what am I? 人究竟是什么生物
What kind of a thing am I? 总的来说
Or generalizing, 什么才能称作人
what kind of thing is a person? 我们是由什么组成的
What are we made of? 我们的组成部分是什么
What are our parts? 在回答"我是否能够幸存"
It seems plausible to think 这个问题之前
that before we could answer the question, 我们需仔细思考
"Do I survive?" 我们得知道"我"是如何形成的
we need to know how I'm built. 那么首先我们
And so the first thing 需要花一点时间
we're going to spend a fair bit of time 搞清楚人是什么
on is trying to get clear on what's a person? 人的基本构造是什么
What are the fundamental building blocks of a person? 第二个你要
The second question that you might think 弄清楚的问题是
we'd want to get clear on is, 活着的概念是什么
"What's the idea, or what's the concept, of surviving?" 在探讨"我是否能够幸存"之前
Before we ask, "Do I survive?" 我们要搞清楚"我是什么"
we need to get clear on "What am I?" "活着又是什么"
and "What is it to survive?" 未来的我又是什么样的呢
What is it for something that exists in the future to be me? 这个问题
Now this question can be 可以作为哲学问题来讨论
discussed philosophically in quite general terms. 同一性的持存本质是什么
What's the nature of persistence of identity over time? 由于我们对我们这种生物十分感兴趣
But since we're especially interested in beings like us, 也就是人类  这个话题
people, this topic, 属于同一性话题下的分支问题
this sub-specialized version of the question of identity, 通常会放在某话题的标题下讨论
gets discussed under the rubric of the topic, 也就是个人同一性
personal identity. 什么是个人同一性的关键  本质或基础
What's the key or the nature or the basis of personal identity? 或者说
As we might put it: 现在的我
What is it for somebody 和下周在这里的我又有什么不同
who's here next week to be the same person as me? 什么是个人同一性
What's the nature of personal identity? 正如我所说  起初
So, as I say, at first glance 你只是想弄清楚这个答案
you might think to get clear on the answer, 我究竟能否幸免一死
"Do I or might I or could I survive my death?" 我们要知道 "我"是什么
we need to know, what am I? 人是什么
What's a person? 一方面要搞清形而上学中
What's the metaphysical composition of people, 人的构造是什么
on the one hand? 同时还要弄清同一性及
And we need to get clear on the nature of identity 持存的本质  具体说来就是
or persistence or, more specifically, 个人同一性
personal identity. 如果想深入了解这个话题
Now as I say, I believe that when push comes to shove, 就必须弄清楚这两个问题
we do need to get clear about both of those questions 这就是头几周课的主要内容
and so that's going to take the first several weeks of the class. 我们会花两周的时间讨论
We're going to spend a couple of weeks talking about, 人是什么
"What's a person?" 然后再用几周时间
And then we're going to spend several weeks, 至少一周
or at least a week or so, 讨论个人同一性的问题
talking about the nature of personal identity. 在我们开始之前
But before we can even get started, 还有一个问题
there's a question, 这是所有问题的核心内容
really an objection to the whole enterprise. 我们需要花很多时间
So we're about to spend a lot of time 去谈论这个哲学问题
asking the philosophical question: 死后能否继续活着
Is there life after death? 死后是否还有活的可能性
Could there be life after death? 我能幸免一死吗
Might I survive my death? 哲学上对此有反驳
But there's a philosophical objection to the entire question. 反驳的观点相当简单
And the objection is fairly simple. 它认为这个问题本身就是错误的
It says the whole question is misconceived. 是在混淆概念  一旦弄清了混淆的地方
It's based on a confusion. Once we see the confusion, 这个问题就好回答了
we can see what the answer to our question is. 我能幸存于一死吗
Could I survive my death? 答案肯定是
The answer has got to be-- 反驳的人会说
this is what the objection says-- 答案当然是不会
the answer has got to be, obviously not. 这就是否定的说法
All right, so here's the objection. 我想说你们首先
I should mention that the very first reading 要阅读的是
that you're going to be 杰·罗森伯格所写的文章
doing is a couple of pages from Jay Rosenberg, 一个当代哲学家
a contemporary philosopher. 他给出了其反驳方的观点
He gives us a version of this objection. 我和你们说说其中的一个观点
So I'll give you one version. 你们可以在书上看到第二种观点
You'll have another version in your readings. 大致意思是
The objection basically says: 我们所说的"人死了"是什么意思
What does it mean to say that somebody's died? 我们问的是  死后能否继续活着
We're asking, "Is there life after death?" 怎么理解一个人已经死了
What does it mean to say that somebody has died? 正常的理解是死亡是
Well a natural definition of death 生命的终结
might be something like the end of life. 那么  如果这是对的  那试问
So then, if that's right, then to ask, 死后能否继续活着  也就是在问
"Is there life after death?" Is just asking, 生命结束后是否还有生命
"Is there life after the end of life?" 这样问题就显而易见了
The answer to that ought to be pretty obvious. 很明显  答案是否定的
Well, obviously, the answer to that is no. 再换个问法  如果生命已经消逝了
After all, if we're saying once you've run out of life, 是否还有生命呢
is there any more life? 好的  这就像是在问
Well, duh! That's like asking, 我把盘子里的东西吃光了
when I've eaten up all the food on my plate, 盘子里是否还有东西
is there any food left on my plate? 或者电影剧终以后还会放什么
Or what happens in the movie after the movie ends? 这是些很愚蠢的问题
These are stupid questions, 因为一旦你明白了他们的问题
because once you understand what they're asking, 答案就在其中  一切简单明了
the answer is just built in. It follows trivially. 因此虽然这看起来
So although it has seemed 这是个老生常谈的问题
to people over the ages that the question, 但"死后能否继续活着"
"Is there life after death?" 却是哲学里最神秘
is one of the great mysteries, 最值得思考的问题
one of the great philosophical things to ponder, 反驳认为这只是种假想
the objection says that's a kind of illusion. 事实上  只要你想一想
In fact, once you think about it, 不用太久
and not all that long, 你就会知道答案是否定的
you can see the answer's got to be no. 死后不可能有轮回
There couldn't possibly be life after death. 死后不可能再有新的生命诞生
There couldn't possibly be life after the end of life. 或者再换一种稍微不同的方式问
Or suppose we ask the question in a slightly different way. 我能幸免一死吗
Might I survive my death? 幸免这个词要怎么理解
Well what does the word "Survive" Mean? 很好  幸免就是我们说的
Well, survive is something like we say 某个人是幸存者
that somebody's a survivor 如果出现惨剧他们没死
if something's happened and they haven't died. 他们仍然活着  当发生车祸的时候
They're still alive. When there's a car accident, 你说  谁死了  谁幸存了
you ask, so-and-so died, so-and-so survived. 这个人幸存了
This person survived. 说他们幸存下来
To say that they survived 是指他们还活着
is just saying that they're still alive. 所以我能活过来吗
So, "Might I survive my death?" 等同于  我能继续活下去么
is like asking, "Might I still be alive after" 那么什么是死亡  死亡是生命的终结
well what's death? Death is the end of life. 因此  我的生命停止了我还能活吗
So..."Might I still be alive after I've stopped living? 我会成为那个幸存者吗
Might I be one of the people who didn't die when I died?" 答案当然是
Gosh, the answer to that is, again, 不可能  你不可能死后逃生
duh! No. You couldn't possibly survive your death, 这是毋庸置疑的
given the very definition. 这让我想起
It should remind us of-- 一个你们可能听过的笑话
at least it reminds me of this joke that you probably told. 小时候听到时估计会觉得让人很疯狂
It seemed hysterical when you were seven. 飞机刚好
The plane crashes exactly 在加拿大和美国的边界上坠毁
on the border of Canada and the United States. 刚好在边界上面
Exactly on the border. 到处都是死人
There's dead people everywhere. 他们该把幸存者埋在哪儿呢
Where do they bury the survivors? 答案是  他们不埋幸存者
The answer is: You don't bury the survivors. 你还小  所以你说  我不知道
So when you're seven you think, "I don't know. 他们会葬在加拿大
Do they bury them in Canada? 还是美国呢
Do they bury them in America?" 答案是  你不需要埋葬幸存者
The answer is: You don't bury the survivors, 因为幸存者就是那些还没死的人
because survivors are people that haven't yet died. 所以  我能从死亡中幸存下来么  就成了
So, "Can I survive my death?" Is like asking, 我死了之后还能活着吗
"Could I not have yet died after died " 答案很明显
The answer is, of course, 既然你死了那就是死了
you have to have died if you died 没能幸存下来就是死了
and you haven't survived if you've died. 因此这个问题根本是无稽之谈
So the question can't even get off the ground. 这至少是反驳者的观点
That, at least, is how the objection goes. 我现在不是轻视这些反驳
Now I don't mean to be utterly dismissive of the objection. 否则我也不会花这些时间去阐述它
That's why I spent a couple of minutes trying to spell it out. 但是我想到了一个回应的方式
But I think there's a way to respond to it. 我们要更清楚地知道
We just have to get clearer about 我们究竟问的是什么问题
what precisely the question is that we're trying to ask. 罗森伯格也在试图搞清楚这个问题
This is something that Rosenberg tries to get clear on as well. 我正尝试
So here's my attempt to 让这两个问题变得更准确
make the question both a bit more precise, 这是个开放性的问题
and a question that's an open question. 一个可以合理提出的问题
A question we can legitimately raise. 你们将会多次在这门课上
Well, now as you will hear on several occasions 听到我这些话
over the course of the semester, 我是一个哲学家
I'm a philosopher. 也就是说我不是很懂自然科学
What that means is I don't really know a whole lot of facts. 我会说一下我这个门外汉对此的理解
So I'm about to tell you a story where I wish I knew the facts. 我不懂这些  如果真要讲这些
I don't know the facts. If I could really do it right, 可以打开门请一个客座生理学家进来
I'd now open the door and bring in our guest physiologist, 他会讲一些理论
who would then provide the facts 对于我来说...会觉得很厌烦
that I'm--what I'm about to go is "Blah, blah, blah." 如果我们请来生理学家
But we have the physiologist come in 他会告诉我们一些知识
and he'd actually tell us these things. 我根本不懂  也不认识什么生理学家
I don't know them. I don't have that person. 但谈到一个人死后身体会发生什么变化
But take a look at what happens when a body dies. 毋庸置疑
Now, no doubt, 杀一个人的办法很多
you can kill people in a lot of different ways. 你可以下毒或是勒死他们
You can poison them, you can strangle them, 你可以朝他心脏开一枪
you can shoot them in the heart. 不同的手段导致死亡的方式不同
The causal paths that result in death may start different, 但是我认为有一点是相同的
but I presume that they converge 你的死亡伴随着这一系列的事情发生
and you end up having a set of events take place. 都是些什么事呢
Now what are those events? 事实上我对这方面不是很了解
This is exactly where I don't really know the details, 我只能认为是
but I take it it's something like: 不论最初的死亡原因是什么
because of whatever the original input was, 最后血液不再流动
eventually the blood's no longer circulating 氧气不能输送到全身
and oxygen isn't making its way around the body. 导致大脑变得缺氧
So the brain becomes oxygen-starved. 由于细胞中缺少氧气
Because of the lack of oxygen getting to the cells, 所以细胞不能完成
the cells are no longer able to carry on 它们的各种新陈代谢活动
their various metabolic processes. 因此
Because of this, 他们不能修复各种损伤
they can't repair the various kinds of damage they need, 或者生成所需的氨基酸蛋白质
or create the amino acids and proteins they need. 当细胞开始衰退
So as decay begins to set in 细胞组织开始损坏
and the cell structures begin to break down, 它们不能像正常的细胞一样修复
they don't get repaired as they would normally do, 结果就是
and so eventually have 重要的细胞组织衰竭了  瞬间
breakdown of the crucial cell structure and boom, 肉体死亡了  我想说
the body's dead. Now as I say, 我不是很确定这个是不是真的
I don't really know whether that's accurate, 刚才讲的那个小故事是不是真的
the little rough story I just told, 但是有些类似的故事就可能是真的
but some story like that is probably right. 从典型的哲学观点来看
And in typical philosophical fashion, 我已经把整个过程画在了黑板上
I've drawn that story for you up here on the board. 由于我不知道某些具体的生理过程
So the events that I don't really know the details of, 我们可以叫它B1 B2 B3一直到Bn
we can just call B1, B2, B3, up through Bn. 在B1之前  你的身体还在运作
Before B1 begins, you've got the body working, 正常运作  也就是机体上的呼吸
functioning, in its bodily way--respirating, 复制细胞  诸如此类
reproducing the cells, and so forth and so on. 在这个过程的最后  也就是Bn  身体死亡了
And at the end of the process, by Bn, the body's dead. B是指身体   B1到Bn
B for bodily. B1 through Bn; 这就是死亡的过程  至少
that's what death is. At least, 这是身体上的死亡
that's what death of the body is. 就像我说的   这就是一些
As I say, it's the sort of thing 医学院的人
that somebody from the medical school 生物学家或生理学家
or a biologist or a physiologist 向我们描述的死亡
or something could describe for us. 然而问题又来了
So here's the question then. 假设我们叫这个过程 "肉体死亡"
Suppose we call that process "Death of the body." 把这些发生在最后阶段的事称做
Call what has occurred by the end of that sequence of events, 肉体死亡
"Bodily death." 现在我们仍然可以继续讨论
Now here's a question that we can still ask, 至少看起来我们可以继续探讨
at least it looks as though we can still ask it. 我是否有可能
Might I, or do I, 在我的肉体死后一直存在
still exist after the death of my body? 我能否在肉体死亡后继续存在
Might I still exist after bodily death? 我不是想说我们
I don't mean to suggest in any way 一定可以找到这个答案
that we yet know the answer to that question, 但至少这是个我们
but at least that's a question 可以合理提出地问题
that it seems as though we can coherently raise. 这个问题没有明显的矛盾
There's no obvious contradiction in asking: 我的肉体死后我是否还能存在
Might I still exist after the death of my body? 答案可能是否定的
The answer could turn out to be no. 但它不是绝对否定的
But at least it's not obviously no. 如果答案是否定的
If the answer turns out to be no, 它将需要更有力的论据
it's going to take some sustained argument 去证明出个所以然
to settle it one way or the other. 这个答案也许是肯定的
The answer could turn out to be yes, 我们都知道这一点
for all we know at this point. 这又带回到我们的另一个思考
This just brings us back to the thought 我是否有可能
that whether or not I 在我死后一直存在
could still exist after the death of my body 这取决于另一个问题"我是谁"  待会
looks like it should depend on what I am. So in a minute, 我会谈到这个问题
that's the question that I'm going to turn to. 但是老是去问"我有没有可能
But it's a bit cumbersome to constantly be asking: 在死后依然存在"会让人觉得很厌烦
Might I still exist after the death of my body? 其实没什么的
So no harm is done, 一但我们证实了我们
once we've clarified the question 试图想要解决的问题
that we're trying to ask, 如果把这个问题用术语或行话简化
if we summarize that question in a bit of a jargon or slogan. 我们与其说
We say, instead of asking: 我会幸存吗
Might I survive? 我能否在死后继续存在
Might I continue to exist after the death of my body? 还不如这样说
you might put it this way. 简单说来就是
You might say for short: 我能从肉体死亡里幸存下来吗
Will I survive the death of my body? 这样说也没关系
No harm done. 我能从死亡中幸免吗
Will I survive my death? 因为我们刚刚明确指出
Because what we were just stipulating we mean 在这里所说的死亡
when we talk about my death in the context of this question 指的是肉体的死亡
is the death of my body. No harm done. 我们能说的简明些
We can just say for short: 我能否幸免一死
Will I survive my death or might I survive my death? 就此而言
For that matter, 我们再问一个问题也没关系
no serious harm done if we ask: 死后能否继续活着
Is there life after death? 只要我们清楚
As long as we understand that 我们问的不是肉体里是否有生命这个问题
what we're not asking about there is life of my body. 就像另一习惯问法
Just another familiar way of trying to ask: 我死后还在世吗
Will I still be around after my death? 我死后还存在吗
Will I still exist after my death? 所以我认为这是一个完全合理的问题
So I think there's a perfectly legitimate question 也是我们准备讨论的问题
and that's the question we now want to turn to. 如我所讲  似乎要回答这个问题
As I said, it looks as though to answer the question, 就得回答"肉体死后我能否继续存在"
"Could I continue to exist after the death of my body?" "死后能否继续活着"
"Is there life after death?" "死后我能否幸存"
"Could I survive my death?" 等等这些问题
for short...to answer that question, 我们需要先清楚以下问题
we need to get clearer about: 我究竟是什么东西
What exactly is it for something to be me? 那是未来两周我们着重讨论的问题
That's a question we'll turn to in a couple of weeks. 首先 我们先要清楚  我是什么
First, we've got to get clearer about: What am I? 我是什么样的实体
What kind of an entity am I? 我是什么组成的  在哲学术语里
What am I made of? In philosophical jargon, 这是个哲学问题
this is a question from metaphysics. 所以我们在讨论的是一个哲学问题
So we're asking the metaphysical question: 人是一种什么样的东西
What kind of a thing is a person? 这似乎可以理解成
It seems plausible to think 一个人的肉体死亡后
that whether or not a person can survive 能否幸存或继续存在
or continue to exist after the death of his or her body 是取决于他的构造
should depend on how he's built, 他的组成部分
what he's made of, 他或她各部分的构件
what his or her parts are. 让我简述一下该问题的两个基本观点
So, let me sketch for you two basic positions on this question. 什么是人?
What is a person? 两个基本观点
Two basic positions. 他们都是...我想大家都十分熟悉
They're both, I imagine, fairly familiar. 我们要做的是选择其中之一
What we're going to have to do is try to decide between them. 它们不是哲学问题上
They're not the only possible positions 关于人类构造的唯一观点
on the question of the metaphysics of the person. 但我想  它们是
But they're, I think, 两个最突出的观点
the two most prominent positions 并且绝对是
and definitely the ones 在我们解答问题上值得严肃对待的观点
most worth taking seriously for our purposes. 第一个可能的观点是这样的
So, first possible position is this. 人可能是肉体和其他某物的结合体
A person is a combination of a body and something else 心灵
a mind. 第一个观点中我们需要讨论的
But the crucial thing about this first view 至关重要的问题是
that we want to talk about is 心灵被认为是与肉体区分开来
that the mind is thought of as something separate from, 截然不同的东西
and distinct from, the body. 用一个较为通俗的词表述 它是灵魂
To use a common enough word, it's a soul. 人是  或人有
So people are, or people have, 或者说人是由肉体和灵魂组成
or people consist of, bodies and souls. 如我所说灵魂是与肉体截然不同的某物
The soul is something, as I say, distinct from the body. 我想大家都已经了解了肉体
I take it the idea of the body is a familiar one. 它是由一块块皮肤  骨骼和肌肉组成
It's this lump of flesh and bone and muscle 它正坐在你们的面前  并且
that's sitting here in front of you and 你们中的每一个人都被这些肉体所牵制
that each one of you sort of drags around with you. 这是一种我们可以称重
It's the sort of thing that we can put on a scale 可被棍打  可被生物学家研究的东西
and prod with a stick and the biologists can study, 想必是由不计其数的分子
presumably made up of various kinds of molecules, 原子等构成  于是我们有了肉体
atoms and so forth. So we've got the body. 但是在第一个观点中
But on this first view, 仍然有不是肉体的部分
we also have something that's not body. 一个不是由物质实体构成的东西
Something that's not a material object. 一个不是由分子原子构成的某物
Something that's not composed of molecules and atoms. 它是灵魂  它是意识
It's a soul. It's the house of, 思想  也许是人格的
or the seat of, or the basis of, 归属  所在地或者说是基础
consciousness and thinking, perhaps personality. 但是这个观点的关键之处在于
But the crucial point for this view is 从哲学角度对心灵的恰当理解
that the proper metaphysical understanding of the mind 必须是在非物理的条件下去思考的
is to think of it in nonphysical terms, 非物质的条件
nonmaterial terms. 这是第一个基本观点
That, as I say, is the first basic view. 我将要更详细地谈那个观点
I'm going to say more about that view, 更多地介绍那个观点
a fair bit more about that view, 这也是接下来两周里的内容
over the next couple of weeks. 首先  让我简述一下另一个基本观点
First, let me sketch the other basic view. 第一个观点我们把它称作"二元论"
So this first view we can call "The dualist view." 之所以是二元论
Dualist, of course, 因为它由两个基本组成部分
because there's two basic components-- 肉体和灵魂
the body and the soul. 尽管我偶尔会提到
Although I may occasionally slip, 但我仍很少用"灵魂"这个词语
I'm going to try to preserve the word "Soul." 当我用"灵魂"这个词时
When I use the word "Soul," 我会采用二元论思路  因为他们认为
I'm going to have in mind this dualist view according to 灵魂是非物质  非物理的
which the soul is something immaterial, nonphysical. 而其他的一些东西...
Some other kind... 比如肉体就是物质实体
the body is a material substance. 灵魂是非物质存在
The soul is an immaterial substance. 这是二元论观点
That's the dualist view. 另一个观点
The alternative view 我们就不再考虑二元论  而是一元论
that we're going to consider is not dualist, but monist. 一元论认为只有一个基本
It says there's one basic 且唯一基本存在的东西
kind of thing and only one basic kind of thing. 那就是肉体  那么究竟什么是人呢
There are bodies. So what's a person? 人只不过是一种物质实体
A person is just a certain kind of material object. 人当然是肉体
A person is just a body. Of course, 一个非常不错的物质实体
it's a very fancy material object. 一个十分神奇的物质实体
It's a very amazing material object. 这就是第二个观点所要阐述的内容
That's what this second view says. 人这个肉体可以做
The person is a body that can do things 很多其他物质实体不能做的事
that most other material objects can't do. 所以一元论观点
So on the monist view-- 我们称作其为"物理主义"
which we'll call "Physicalism," 因为它认为人只不过
because it says that what people just are, 是个物理对象  物理主义认为
are these physical objects--on the physicalist view, 人只是可以...你能举出很多例子
a person is just a body that can...you fill in the blank. 你可以说出我们能做的很多事  说话
You point out the kinds of things that we can do. We can talk. 思考  唱歌
We can think. We can sing. 我们可以写诗
We can write poetry. 可以彼此相爱
We can fall in love. 可以感到害怕
We can be afraid. 可以制定计划
We can make plans. 可以探寻宇宙的奥秘
We can discover things about the universe. 根据物理主义的观点
According to the physicalist view, 人是一个可以做以下事情的肉体
a person is just a body that can do all of those things: 可以思考  可以理性
can reflect, can be rational, 可以与人交流  可以制定计划
can communicate, can make plans, 可以彼此相爱  可以写诗
can fall in love, can write poetry. 这就是物理主义的观点
That's the physicalist view. 如我所讲  我们已经得到了两个基本观点
As I say, we've got two basic positions. 二元论认为  人由肉体和灵魂组成
There's the dualist view--people are bodies and souls. 而物理主义
And there's the physicalist view, 认为人没有灵魂
according to which there are no souls. 没有这样的非物质实体存在
There are no immaterial objects like that. 人只是肉体
There are only bodies, 正如你我都有正常的身体功能
though when you've got a functioning body like ours, 所以物理主义认为
so the physicalist says, 这些肉体能做出一些相当厉害的事情
these bodies can do some pretty amazing things. 我们都知道人类能做出那样的事
The kind of things that we all know people can do. 两个基本观点
Two basic views. 从逻辑角度而言
From a logical point of view, 我想你们可能会持有第三种观点
I suppose you might have a third possible view. 如果一元论认为人只有肉体
If we've got the monist who says there's bodies 没有灵魂
but there's no souls, 你也能猜想有些人会说
you could imagine somebody who says 人只有灵魂没有肉体
there are souls but there are no bodies. 这个观点估计是从人只有心灵
This would roughly be a view according to which there are minds, 而不是物理对象的观点出发的
but there aren't really physical objects. 物理对象只是一种幻觉
Physical objects are a kind of illusion, 我们深陷这种幻觉之中
perhaps, that we fall into. 或是把它们当作物理对象
Or thinking about them in materialistic terms 本身就是种混淆或是错误
might be greatly confused or mistaken. 这个观点在哲学里被称作唯心主义
This view is sometimes known in philosophy as idealism: 所有存在的事物都是心灵和思想
all that exists, are minds and their ideas. 物理对象不过是被当作
Physical objects is just a way of talking about 理念  心灵或是其他的一些东西罢了
the ideas the mind has or something like that. 唯心主义这个观点
Idealism is a position 在哲学史上占据了很长一段时间
that's got a very long history in philosophy 并且值得我们花几节课
and for many classes would be worth 时间用心解读这个观点
taking a fair bit of time to consider more carefully. 但就我们的目标而言
But for our purposes, 它与我们讨论的话题并不相关
I think it's not a contender. 所以我将把它置于一边
So I'm just going to put it aside. 我将要说的观点...
The positions that I'm going to... 当然还有其他观点
and there are other possibilities as well. 有一些观点认为
There are views where mind 心灵和肉体是审视同一
and body are just two different ways 现实基础的截然不同的方式
of looking at the same underlying reality 这种现实基础既非肉体也非心智
where the underlying reality is neither physical nor mental. 此观点也值得在哲学课程中认真讨论
That view's also worth taking seriously in a metaphysics class, 但就我们的目标而言
but for our purposes, 我仅仅只是提及它  并将其搁置一边
I mention it and put it aside. 我们将要关注的两种观点是
The two views we are going to focus on are, 一个是二元论
on the one hand, the dualist view- 人们既有肉体亦有灵魂
people have souls as well as bodies-- 另一个是物理主义
and the physicalist view-- 我们所拥有的  我们所存在的  只是肉体而已
all we have, all we are, are bodies. 就二元论观点  我再多说几句
Let me say something more then about the dualist position. 根据二元论
According to the dualist, 心灵是非物质的实体
the mind is this immaterial substance 我们可以用不同的名字称呼它
and we could call it by different names. 我们叫它心灵是完全可以的
No harm would be done if we call it a mind, 我之所以重点强调
though the reason I will typically talk 灵魂是为了
about a soul is to try to 标识出二元论的重要论点
flag the crucial point of the dualist view. 心灵建立在...或仅仅是非物理的东西
The mind is based in, or just is something nonphysical, 非物质的某种东西
something nonmaterial, 我们可以把它称作心灵  也可以叫灵魂
we can call it a mind we can call it a soul 还可以说是精神
we can call it a psyche 但我们一般用灵魂来命名它
we typically try to call it a soul. 一方面  灵魂可以指示和命令身体
the soul can direct and give orders to the body, on the one hand. 另一方面
On the other hand, 身体又能输出指令
the body generates input 使得灵魂能够感知
that eventually gets sensed or felt by the soul. 你拿一根针扎我身体上的肉
You take a pin and you stick it through my flesh of my body 我的灵魂  我的心灵就会意识到疼痛
and I feel pain in my soul, in my mind. 所以这是种双向互动
So, two-way interaction. 但由于我们在说的是哲学
As always with philosophy, 二元论还持有更为复杂的观点
there's more complicated versions of dualism 例如  交互作用对双方都不起作用
where maybe the interaction doesn't work both ways, 但就让我们限制在一个范围内较好
but let's just limit ourselves to good, 保守的  双向互动二元论观点
old-fashioned, two-way interactionist dualism. 所以我的心灵控制我的身体
So my mind controls my body. 我的身体可以通过多种方式影响我的心灵
My body can affect my mind in various ways. 但总的来说  它们依旧是不同的事物
But for all that, they're separate things. 而它们之间仍旧有着紧密的联系
Still there's this very tight connection. 我们有时认为  灵魂在身体内
We sometimes put it: the soul is in the body, 在谈论空间地点时
though talking about spatial 也许会暗示着某种隐喻
locations here may be somewhat metaphorically intended. 但不是我们想的那样
It's not as though we think 只要打开你的身体
that if you start opening up 就能在其中找到一个特定的位置
the body you'd finally find the particular spot. 这就是你灵魂的所在地
Here's the place where the soul is located. 虽然看起来
Though it does seem, 就二元论观点而言
from this dualist perspective, 灵魂是有位置的
as though souls are located, 我可以从这里看到世界
I'm sort of viewing the world from here. 就像你们每个人
Just like each of you is 通过某个特殊位置去观察世界一样
viewing the world from a particular location. 所以你的灵魂是有位置的
So maybe your soul is located, 或多或少  就在你的身体附近
more or less, in the vicinity of your body. 当然  至关重要的一点
Crucial point, of course, 二元论观点的引人之处在于
the attraction of the dualist view, 就我们而言
from our point of view, 如果肉体与灵魂同时存在
is that if there's a soul as well as the body, 而且如果灵魂是非物质
and the soul is something immaterial, 那么当肉体死亡的时候
then when the body dies, 就像之前的B1到Bn的过程
when we have B1 through Bn 直到肉体死亡
and the death of the body occurs. 当Bn结束的时候
So at the end of Bn, 身体停止修复自身
the body stops repairing itself. 肉身开始腐烂
Decay sets in. 我们都知道这很悲伤
We all know the sad story. 蛆虫爬进又爬出
The worms crawl in, the worms crawl out. 到了一日之尽
At the end of the day-- 嗯  可能长过一日吧
well it maybe it takes longer than a day-- 尸体被分解
the body has decomposed. 是呀  所有这一切都预示着肉体的终结
Yes, all that bespeaks the end of the body. 但如果灵魂是非物质的
But if the soul is something immaterial, 那么它会继续存在
then that could continue to exist, 即便肉体已经被分解殆尽
even after the destruction of the body. 这就是吸引人的地方
That's the attraction, 至少是众多吸引人地方中的一处
at least one of the attractions, 就二元论者的观点而言
of the dualist view. 相信灵魂的存在你就会
The belief in the soul gives you something 相信死后你依然能够存在
to continue to exist after the end of your body. 那么什么是死亡
So what's death? 如果我的灵魂和肉体之间
Well, if normally there's this super tight connection 有着超紧密的联系
between my soul and my body, 那么死亡就是这种联系的终结
death might be the severing of that connection. 由于肉体死亡了
So the body breaks and no 它将不再给灵魂输入指令
longer is able to give input up to the soul. 那么灵魂就再也无法
The soul is no longer able 控制肉体  使其活动了
to control the body and make it move around. 尽管如此  灵魂却依然可能存在
But for all that, the soul might continue to exist. 因此如果我们是二元论者
And so at least the possibility 那么至少我们会非常非常认真地看待
that I'll survive my death is one worth taking very, 我们能幸免一死的可能性
very seriously if we are dualists. 在此观点上有几点事情要指明
A couple of things to point out about this view. 一点是我已经谈论过的  人是一种组合
One is I've been talking as though a person is a combination, 有点儿像灵魂和肉体三明治
kind of a soul and body sandwich. 所以一个人有两种基本构造
So a person has two basic building blocks. 肉体部分和灵魂部分
The bodily part and the soul part. 这说起来很轻松
It's natural to talk that way, 如果我们想要寄托于
but if we want belief in the soul to help us 相信灵魂的存在
hold out the possibility 而让死后能够继续活着有据可依
at least that there might be life after death, 那么我们需要一个严格的说法
then I think we need to actually say that strictly speaking, 不是说一个人是灵魂加肉体
it's not that a person is a soul plus a body. 严格说来
Strictly speaking, 我们得说  人即灵魂
I think we need to say the person just is the soul. 毕竟  如果人是组合体
After all, if the person is the combination, 如果一个人是一对儿组合
if the person is the pair, 灵魂加肉体  那么毁掉肉身
soul plus the body, destroy the body, 你就已经摧毁了这一对儿
you've destroyed the pair. 如果人是这一对儿
If the person is the pair 而这对儿已经不复存在
and the pair no longer exists, 那这人也就不存在了
the person no longer exists. 因此如果我们相信灵魂
So if we want belief in a soul 可以帮助我们在幸免一死的
to help us leave open the door to the possibility 问题上打开一扇窗
that I survive the destruction of my body, 那么必须是肉体不是我的重要组成部分
it had better not be that the body is an essential part of me. 简单点儿  更直白地说
It's simpler, more straightforward to say instead, 我严格的说起来就是个灵魂而已
"What I am strictly speaking is a soul." 只要灵魂不灭  我便存在
As long as the soul exists, I exist. 当然  我的灵魂  我自己   我本人
Of course, my soul, me, I, 与某个特定的肉体有着紧密的联系
have a very tight connection to a particular body. 但仍旧  你可以  原则上讲
But still, you could, in principle, 毁掉我的肉身  却无法摧毁我自己
destroy the body without destroying me. 这么说  我和我所居住的房子
Look, I have a particularly 有着特定的紧密联系
close connection to the house I live in. 即便如此
But for all that, 你可以摧毁我的房屋但无法摧毁我本人
you can destroy my house without destroying me. 所以我认为
So that's I think the position 这应归入二元论者的立场
that we ought to ascribe to the dualist. 一个人  严格来讲  就是灵魂
The person is, strictly speaking, the soul. 灵魂和肉体有着非常亲密的联系
The soul has a very intimate connection with the body, 但是人并不是灵魂加肉体
but the person is not the soul and the body. 人只是灵魂而已
The person is just the soul. 即使灵魂与肉体之间的亲密联系被摧毁
So even if that intimate connection gets destroyed, 人  即灵魂  可以继续存在
the person, the soul, could continue to exist. 需要解决的第二点是
The second point to clear up is 有三种不同的观点
that there's really three 也许能够引起我们的兴趣
different issues that might interest us. 第一  从形而上学的角度讲
One, metaphysically, 肉体和灵魂是截然不同的吗
are bodies and souls distinct? 难道心灵必须得被理解为
Is the mind to be understood in terms of 一种非物质客体
this immaterial object, 也就是灵魂吗  这两种东西是一样的吗
the soul? So are there two kinds of things? 这是第一个问题
That's the first question. 灵魂和肉体是不同的吗
Are souls and bodies distinct? 第二个问题
Second question, though, is: 即使灵魂存在  在肉体被摧毁后
Does the soul, even if it exists, 灵魂是否能存活
survive the destruction of the body? 它有可能幸免于死亡
It could be something separate without surviving. 这就是我一直在说的  如果灵魂存在
That's why I've tried to say if there are souls, 至少这为我们在死后继续活着
at least that opens the door to the possibility 创造了可能性
that we will survive our death. 但这不能保证
But, it doesn't guarantee it, 由于缺乏进一步的论证
because absent further argumentation, 我们无法保证
there's no guarantee that 在肉体死亡后灵魂仍然存活
the soul survives the death of the body. 即使灵魂是独立于肉体的
Even if it's separate, 在肉体被摧毁的同时
it could be that it gets killed at the very same time 它也可能被杀死
or destroyed at the very same time 或彻底摧毁
that the body's being destroyed. 也许当这些物理过程发生时
Maybe when these physical processes, 也就是从B1到Bn
B1 through Bn, take place, 它们开始运转  要记住
they set into motion...remember, 毕竟我们是心物交互的二元论者
after all we're interactionist dualists. 有种非常紧密的
There's this very tight 因果关系存在于肉体和思想
causal connection between the body and the mind 灵魂和肉体
and the soul and the body, 或是肉体和灵魂之中
the body and the soul. 就比如当你戳我的身体
Just like when you prick my body, 这种肉体上的过程
that bodily process sets 会引起我灵魂上的反应
up certain things taking place in my soul. 也许当B1到Bn发生时
Maybe when B1 through Bn take place, 我的灵魂产生了另一种过程
they set up some other processes in my soul. 称之为S1到Sn
Call them S1 through Sn. 也许是S1到Sn导致了灵魂的毁灭
And maybe S1 through Sn results in the destruction of my soul. 伴随着肉体的死亡  我的灵魂跟着逝去
So simultaneously with my body dying, my soul dies. 好吧  这个画起来有点棘手
Okay, this one's going to be a little bit trickier to draw. 第一部分是  S1
The first part, S1..., 这很容易  Sn
that's easy. Sn. 问题是
The question is: 我怎么画灵魂
How do I draw the soul? 我也不太清楚
I don't really know. 根据我们仅有的事实去判断
So the mere fact that we decide, 如果我们最终判定灵魂是存在的
if we do ultimately decide that there is a soul, 它是一种无形的
something nonphysical, 独立的  与肉体截然不同的东西
separate and distinct from the body, 但仍不能保证我们会在肉体死亡后活下来
doesn't guarantee that we survive our physical death. 这将是我们将要谈论的一个独立问题
That's going to be a separate question we'll have to turn to. 第一个问题将是
The first question's going to be: 灵魂存在吗
Are there any souls? 下一个问题将是
Next question is going to have to be: 如果存在
If there are, 我们有没有很好的理由去相信
do we have any good reason to think that 肉体死亡后灵魂依旧存活
they survive the death of the body? 第三个问题我们也许会感兴趣
Third question that might interest us, 我们肯定会感兴趣  那就是
that does interest us, is this: 如果灵魂活下来  它会活多久
If it survives, how long does it survive? 灵魂是否在我们肉体死亡后继续存在
Does the soul continue to exist after the death of the body? 它是否会永远存在
Does it continue to exist forever? 我们是永生的吗
Are we immortal? 大多数人希望这是真的
Most of us would like that to be true. 我们希望有灵魂那么我们可以长生不死
We want there to be souls so that we can be immortal. 那么问题将变成不仅仅是
And so the question's got to be not only, 灵魂是否独立于肉体
is the soul distinct? 是否能够在我死后幸存
Does it survive the death of my body? 而是灵魂是否会永存
But does it continue to exist forever? 这些问题
Those questions-- 请等一下
hang on one second-- 这些是柏拉图特别感兴趣的问题
are ones that especially interest Plato. 一周后我们将开始阅读柏拉图的"斐多篇"
So in about a week or so we'll start reading Plato's Phaedo. 该哲学著作中
The purpose of that dialogue, 所有对话的目的
of that philosophical work, 是要论证灵魂不朽
is to argue for the immortality of the soul. 这个问题我们以后再涉及
That's a question we'll be turning to. 你说吧
Yeah? 很好  问题是这样
Great. So the question is this. 如果关于我们正在讨论的
If the very idea of soul 观点是建立在二元论的基础上
that we're working with here under the dualist picture 即灵魂是非物质实体
is the soul as an immaterial substance, 它并非由一般的原子物质组成
it's not made of ordinary atomic matter. 如果灵魂是无形的
If the soul is immaterial, 是否可以顺理成章地得出
doesn't it follow automatically, trivially, 灵魂无法被实体过程所摧毁呢
that the soul can't be destroyed by a material process? 毕竟  每个人都会面临死亡
After all, there was death of the body, 从B1到Bn
B1 through Bn. 这是一个物质过程
That's a material process, 物理过程
a physical process. 而灵魂这种
Doesn't it follow that a soul, 无形的实体
an immaterial entity, 是否会遵循这个规律被物质
can't be destroyed by a material, 也就是物理过程摧毁呢
physical process? 这是个很棒的问题
That's a great question. 我想说的是
What I want to say is, 简单的解释为
the short answer for now is, 我不认为可以顺理成章得出结论
I don't think it follows automatically. 或是自然而然得出结论
It doesn't follow trivially. 当然有这个可能
It may follow. 事实上柏拉图会给我们一些
Plato's actually going to give us some arguments 相似的论据来证明
for pretty much that same claim. 柏拉图会为我们证明
Plato's going to argue once we understand 一旦我们理解了灵魂的哲学本质
the sort of metaphysical nature of the soul, 我们就会明白为什么不能摧毁灵魂
we'll see why it couldn't be destroyed. 因此会产生一些有趣的争论
That's going to take some fancy arguments. 我认为它并非自然地得出结论的原因是
The reason I think it doesn't follow trivially is because, 记住  我们在和心物交互二元论打交道
remember, I said we're dealing with interactionist dualism. 我们已经承认
We've already admitted that 肉体是可以影响灵魂的  对吧
bodies are able to affect the soul, right? 身体可以通过不同的
The body is having all sorts of 波长把光线反射进我的眼睛
light bounce off my eyes of various wavelengths. 所以我的灵魂也有各种各样的视觉
And because of that my soul is having various visual sensations 比如能看到在我面前的人数
about the number of people in front of me, 颜色等等诸如此类
colors, and so forth and so on. 我刚才举了戳我身体的例子
I gave the example of pricking my body. 这是一个物理过程  它造成了
That's a physical process that causes some sorts of 我灵魂中心灵过程的改变
changes in the mental processes occurring in my soul. 一旦我们承认
Once we've admitted that on 在二元论框架下物质的肉体
this kind of dualist picture the material body 可以影响非物质的灵魂
can influence what happens in the immaterial soul, 那么似乎
then it doesn't seem that 我们没有任何理由
we have any grounds for shutting the door 去否认物理过程  也就是从
to the possibility that the right physical process, 从B1到Bn  很可能导致了
B1 through Bn, might set up this horrible mental, 灵魂过程  S1到Sn
soul process, S1 through Sn, 最终走向毁灭的惨剧
resulting in the destruction of the soul. 有这种可能性
It's a possibility. 我们还需要更多讨论
It's going to take more arguments 才能否定这个观点
to rule it out. 你说吧
Yeah? 是的  另一个好的提问
Yeah, another great question. 这个问题是
The question was: 我说过我的灵魂
I said it seems plausible to 极有可能存在于某个位置
say my soul is located, 至少我似乎能从这看到世界
more or less, here because I seem to view the world from here. 但这有可能是错误的
But maybe that's not right. 也许我们压根就不应该讨论灵魂到底在哪
Maybe we shouldn't talk about the location of the soul at all. 归根结底  如果灵魂是个非物质的东西
After all, if the soul is an immaterial object, 那么一个非物质的东西会有位置吗
can immaterial objects have locations? 我也不知道  直截了当地说  我不知道
I don't know. The short answer is I don't know. 我压根就对
I know very little about 非物质的东西如何运作没什么概念
how immaterial objects are supposed to work. 尽管我在尝试去概述
So although I'm trying to sketch 二元论的观点
the dualist position, 就像我在周二所说的
as I explained on Tuesday, 我自己并不相信灵魂
I don't myself believe in souls. 我并不相信二元论的正确性
I don't actually think that the dualist view is correct. 你可能会说
You might say, 我会把这个问题
I'll leave that problem-- "灵魂是否在空间上有它的位置"
are souls spatially located or not-- 留给那些相信这个理论的人去解决
to be worked out by those who believe in it. 就我们论题来讲  我觉得这无关紧要
For our purposes, I think it doesn't really matter. 如果你觉得灵魂的确存在于某处
If you want to say souls have a location, 那它们到底在哪
where are they located? 反正他们应该是在我身上的吧
They're located more or less where my body is. 起码在我肉体还活着的时候是这样的
At least, as long as my body's working. 也许在死亡那一刹那灵魂会摆脱
Maybe at death the soul gets liberated 肉体的束缚  游荡起来更加自如
from the body and is able to wander more freely. 有时候人们会讨论  我们会读到这些内容
Sometimes people talk about, in fact we'll be reading about this, 关于灵魂出窍的事例
out-of-body experiences. 也许在某个特定时间
And so maybe during those unusual times 灵魂出窍之后  又重回肉身
the soul wanders from the body and comes back to it. 或者还有可能
Or, alternatively, 灵魂压根就不存在于某个特定的位置
maybe the soul doesn't have any location at all. 也许那种想法就是一个错觉
Maybe that's just an illusion 因为通过视觉我知道
created by the fact that 肉体有位置  随之假设灵魂也有位置
I'm getting this visual input from my body . 我的肉体当然是存在于空间的某处
My body certainly has a location. 也许正确的思路是...
Maybe the right way-- 想象某个人在一个房间里面
imagine somebody who was in a room 拿着一个类似于电视遥控器之类的东西
with remote control television setup and so forth and so on. 他正在观看芝加哥发生的事
And he's seeing what's happening in Chicago, 而他本人却坐在纽黑文的一个房间里
even though he's sitting in a room in New Haven. 这样你就能明白
Well, you could understand 他之所以认为自己身处芝加哥
why he might fall into the trap of thinking of himself as located 是因为他的视觉信息来源于芝加哥
in Chicago with all the visual inputs coming from Chicago. 也许这正是为什么人们会认为灵魂有位置
So maybe that's how it works with the soul. 我们被我们存在的地方
We get lulled into thinking that 就是肉体存在的地方所蒙蔽
we are where our bodies are. 但这其实只是一个哲学错觉
But that's really a metaphysical illusion. 其实这我也不太肯定
I don't really know. 就我们的论题来讲  我觉得这些都无关紧要
For our purposes, I think it's not crucial. 尽管这个问题很值得研究
Though it's a great question, 但我不打算再去深入地探讨它
but I'm not going to try to pursue it any further. 好吧
All right. 第一个问题  灵魂到底存不存在
So one question: Is there a soul? 第二个问题  灵魂从肉体死亡中幸免吗
Second question: Does it survive the death of our body? 第三个问题  如果能幸免  它能永生吗
Third question: If it does, does it live forever? 它会继续存在直到永远吗
Does it continue to exist forever? 灵魂是不朽的吗
Is the soul immortal? 我们将要开始考虑第一个问题
We will initially think about the first question: 我们到底有没有理由去相信灵魂的存在
Do we have any good reason to believe in souls at all? 接下来不久
And only after a while 我们将会转而讨论第二个和第三个问题
will we turn to the second and third question: 它能幸免一死  或者  更严格地说
Does it survive and, more particularly, 它是不朽的吗
is it immortal? 这是关于人本质的第一个基本观念
That's the first basic view about the nature of a person. 人是有灵魂的  一种超越肉体非物质的东西
A person has a soul, something immaterial and not a body. 我觉得这种观念是大家普遍共识的
I take it that the view is a familiar one. 你们当中许多人可能都相信这种观念
Many of you probably believe in it. 那些并不相信这一观念的人
Those of you who don't believe in it have probably, 至少也想要去相信它
at least, been tempted to believe in it. 我肯定你们都认识一些相信这个观点的人
I'm sure you all do know people who believe in it. 这是一个很常见的现象
It's a very familiar picture. 但是 当然了
But, of course, 我们需要扪心自问的是
the question we're going to have to ask ourselves is: 这种观念是对的吗
Is it right? 我们有理由去相信它的正确性吗
Is there reasons to believe it's correct? 现在我们转而讨论第二个基本观念
Turn now to the second basic view, 物理主义观
the physicalist view, 核心思想是人只是个肉体
according to which a person is just a body. 这是个唯物主义的观念
This is a materialist view. 人只是个物质实体
People are just material objects, 一个生物学可以钻研的东西
the sorts of things biologists poke and prod and study. 有个重要的一点...
It's important... 我觉得这是最关键的一点
I think this is the crucial point... 就是当我们说人只是个肉体时
that when we say a person is just a body, 我们不知道这意味着...
we don't understand that to mean... 物理主义的意思不是...
the physicalist doesn't mean that as-- 人只是随随便便的某种肉体
a person is just any old body. 他们的意思不是不同的物理对象之间
It's not as though there aren't important differences 没有什么重大区别
between different physical objects. 某些物理对象
Some physical objects 可做的事远远比
can do things of a far more 其他物理对象能做的事有趣得多
interesting sort than other physical objects. 譬如这有一根粉笔
Here's a piece of chalk. 它是个物理对象
It's a physical object. 它只是个物质实体[即肉体  下同]
It's just a body. 它能干什么
What can it do? 并不是很多
Well, not a whole lot. 我能拿它在黑板上写字
I can write on the board with it. 我能把它掰成两半
I can break it in two. 你一松手  它就掉下去了
You let go of it, it drops down. 不是什么有趣的物质实体
Not a very interesting physical body. 这还有个手机
Here's a cell phone. 它也只是个物质实体
It's just a body. 它虽不是这个世界上最吸引人的物理对象
It's not the most interesting physical object in the world, 但它能干的事比一根粉笔能干的有趣多了
but it's a whole lot more interesting than a piece of chalk. 它能干一堆粉笔干不了的事
It can do all sorts of things a piece of chalk can't do. 假如物理主义是对的
If the physicalist is right, 那么给你们再举一个物理对象的例子
then here's another physical object for you... 我  雪莱·卡根
me, Shelly Kagan. 我是个相当了不起的物理对象
I'm a pretty impressive physical object. 虽然我这么说挺自大的
Now arrogant as I may be, 但我的意思并不是
I don't mean to suggest 我比你们这帮人更了不起
I'm any more impressive than you guys are. 我们每一个人  按照物理主义的观点
Each one of us, according to the physicalist, 就是能干出某些令人惊叹事情的实体
is just a body that can do some amazing things. 我们是会思考的肉体
We are bodies that can think. 我们是会深谋远虑的肉体
We are bodies that can plan. 我们是会逻辑推理的肉体
We are bodies that can reason. 我们是有感情的肉体
We are bodies that can feel. 我们是可以感到害怕
We are bodies that can be afraid 可以创造  拥有梦想和抱负的肉体
and be creative and have dreams and aspirations. 我们是可以彼此沟通的肉体
We are bodies that can communicate with each other. 我们是一些
We are bodies that are... 用一个词可以总结
well, here's a word for it: 我们是被称作人类的肉体
We're bodies that are people. 但是物理主义认为
But on the physicalist view, 人只是个纯粹的肉体
a person is just a body. 我们把这个话题留到下堂课再来讨论
And that's where we'll take it up next time. 



 Chapter 2: 灵魂存在与否的论证（一）


今天我们接着上次课的内容继续讨论
Today we're going to take up the discussion where we left it last time. 围绕着  人是什么
We were talking about two main positions 我们探讨了两种观点
with regard to the question, "What is a person?" 一种是二元论的观点
On the one hand, we have the dualist view; 上堂课上我们用了很长的时间来介绍它
that's the view that we spent a fair bit of time sketching last meeting. 二元论认为
The dualist view, 人是由肉体和灵魂两部分组成
according to which a person is a body and a soul. 或者  严格地说来
Or perhaps, strictly speaking, 我们可以表达为
what we should say is 灵魂是人最本质的部分
the only part that's essential to the person is the soul, 尽管它和肉体间保持着密切的联系
though it's got a rather intimate connection to a particular body. 这是二元论的观点
That's the dualist view. 与之相对的  是物理主义的观点
In contrast to that, we've got the physicalist view, 认为人只有肉体
according to which there are just bodies. 换句话说  一个人就是一具肉体
A person is just a body, as we might put it. 但问题的中心
Now, the crucial point here, 即我在上次结课前谈到的关键点
the point I was turning to as we ended last time, 在于尽管从物理主义的角度来看  人只是肉体
is that although a person on the physicalist view is just a body, 但并不是普通的肉体
a person isn't just any old body. 人是拥有一套特定能力的肉体
A person is a body that has a certain set of abilities, 可以从事一系列特定的活动
can do a certain array of activities. 人是可以思考  可以互相交流的肉体
People are bodies that can think, that can communicate, 他有理性  可以规划  可以感知
that are rational, that can plan, that can feel things, 有创新等各种能力
that can be creative, and so forth and so on. 我们可以探究一下
Now, we might argue about 人具体有哪些能力
what's the exact best list of those abilities. 但鉴于课程的目的
For our purposes, 这点并不在我们的讨论重点之内
I think that won't be crucial, 所以我也许偶尔会提及人的这些能力
and so I'll sometimes talk about this set of abilities 但并不会把它们详尽地列举出来
without actually having a canonical list. 只是把它们视为人具备的能力
Just think of them as the set of abilities that people have, 作为人有别于粉笔  收音机
the things that we can do that other physical objects-- chalk, radios, 汽车等其他物体的能力
cars-- those things can't do. 这些能力使得我们成为人
Call those the abilities that make something a person. 用专业术语来说
To just introduce a piece of jargon, 我们可以称那些能力为P能力  P代表人
we could call those the P abilities, P for person. 或者我们还可以探讨更多的表达方式
Or we could talk about the various kinds of ways-- 但以下是物理主义的观点
this is the physicalist way of thinking about it-- 物理主义认为  人只是
according to the physicalist, a person is just a body 一具拥有实现各种P能力的肉体
that has the ability to fulfill the various P functions. 我们可以把人视为拥有P能力的肉体
And we can talk, then, about a person as a P-functioning body. 或者  我们可以说
Or we could say that 人就是具有人类能力的肉体
a person is a body that is P-functioning. 要理解这个观点最为重要的是
It's important to see that the idea is, 这里的肉体  不是随随便便的肉体
although it's a body, it's not just any old body. 事实上  它也不完全是人类的躯体
Indeed, it's not just any old human body. 毕竟你拔出枪
After all, if you rip out your gun, 击中我的心脏  我失血而亡
shoot me in the heart, I bleed to death, 我还是保持着肉体的形式
we still have a human body in front of us. 但这不是具有人类能力的肉体
But we don't have a P-functioning body. 不是那个可以思考
We don't have a body that's able to think, 可以规划
a body that's able to plan, 可以相互交流  有创造力有目标的肉体
to communicate, to be creative, to have goals. 所以说关键是
So the crucial thing about 人拥有一个具有人类能力的肉体
having a person is having a P-functioning body. 那么  这个观点又是如何定义心灵的呢
Now, what's a mind on this view? 在物理主义看来
On the physicalist view, 对心灵的探讨是完全合理的
it's still perfectly legitimate to talk about minds. 从物理主义的角度出发
The point, though, is that from the physicalist perspective, 用最确切的语言加以表达
the best thing to say is, 心灵是表述
talk about a mind is a way of talking 肉体各种精神能力的方式
about these various mental abilities of the body. 我们给它起了个名字  称它为心灵
We nominalize it. We talk about it using a noun, the mind. 但是心灵
But talk of the mind is 仅仅是在肉体还能正常工作时
just a way of talking about these abilities 对这些精神能力的一种表述
that the body has when it's functioning properly. 这和探讨微笑很相似
This is similar, let's say, to talking about a smile. 我们相信微笑是存在的
We believe that there are smiles. 物理主义者们不否认心灵的存在
Physicalists don't deny that there are minds. 正如我们不否认  笑的存在
Just like we don't deny, we all believe, that there are smiles. 但是笑究竟是什么
But what is a smile? 笑就是我们表达
Well, a smile is just a way of talking about 肉体某项能力的一种方式
the ability of the body to do something. 这种特有的
This characteristic thing 咧嘴露齿的动作
we do with our lips exposing our teeth and so forth. 这就是笑
It's a smile, 一个相当呆气的笑  但也仍然是笑
a rather dorky smile, but there's a smile. 如果要罗列完成这个动作牵涉到的身体部位
Now, if you were listing the parts of the body, 你也许会列举牙齿  嘴唇
you would list the teeth, you would list the lips, 你会列举牙龈  舌头
you would list the gums, you would list the tongue, 但你不会列举出笑
but you wouldn't list the smile. 那么  我们是否该像二元论者一样宣称
So, should we conclude, as dualists, 笑是某种与肉体有着某种
that smiles are these extra nonphysical things 特殊紧密联系的非物质呢
that have a special intimate relationship with bodies? 你当然可以那样想
Well, you could imagine a view like that, 不过那是一个相当愚蠢的看法
but it would be rather a silly view. 用笑作举例只是想说明
Talk about a smile is just a way of talking about 肉体具有笑的能力
the body's ability to smile. 并无其他
There's no extra part. 即使我们有笑容这个名词
Even though we have a noun, the smile, 如果你不够谨慎  可能会想当然地认为
that if you're not careful might lull you into thinking 一定存在着笑容这一事物
there must be a thing, the smile. 随即你便会陷入一堆形而上学的谜团中去
And then you'd have all these metaphysical conundrums. 笑到底在哪里
Where is the smile located? 它好像在嘴的附近
It seems to be in the vicinity of the mouth. 但是笑不是嘴唇
But the smile isn't the lips. 笑也不是牙齿
The smile isn't the teeth. 那么它一定是某种无形的东西
So it must be something nonphysical. 以上只是一种对笑的愚蠢思考
No, that would just be a silly way to think about smiles. 我们会谈到笑只是为了表达
Talk of smiles is just a way of talking about 肉体具有笑的能力
the ability of the body to smile, 能够微笑
to form a smile. 这是我们肉体都拥有的能力
That's an ability that we have, our bodies have. 相似地  物理主义观点认为
Similarly, then, according to the physicalist, 心灵  即便这个名词的确存在
talk of the mind, despite the fact that we have a noun there, 只是我们表达
is just a way of talking about the abilities 肉体各种行为能力的一种方式
of the body to do various things. 心灵只是我们用来表达
The mind is just a way of talking about 肉体可以思考
the fact that our body can think, 可以相互交流  可以规划  可以深思熟虑
can communicate, can plan, can deliberate, 可以富有创造力  可以写诗
can be creative, can write poetry, 可以彼此相爱的一种方式
can fall in love. 这些能力才是心灵所表达的对象
Talk of all of those things is what we mean by the mind, 但是离开肉体  心灵就没有意义了
but there's no extra thing, the mind, above and beyond the body. 这就是物理主义的观点
That's the physicalist view. 因此  从物理主义的
So it's important, in particular, 角度理解这一点尤为重要
to understand that from the physicalist's point of view, 心灵并不是大脑
the mind is not the brain. 你可能会想
You might think, 根据物理主义的说法心灵就是大脑
"Look, according to physicalists minds are just brains." 而且那么说也不会错得很离谱
And that wouldn't be a horrendously misleading thing to say, 因为目前最先进的科学研究表明
because according to the best science that we've got, 大脑是身体的一部分
the brain is the part of the body 是给予我们各种能力的
that is the seat or house or the underlying mechanical structure 基石或归属的支撑性机械结构
that gives us these various abilities. 我们依靠大脑才拥有这些能力
These P functions are functions that we have by virtue of our brain. 这可能会让你觉得心灵
So that might tempt you into saying the mind 在物理主义那里就是大脑
on the physicalist view is just a brain. 但是我们也许不该那么说  毕竟
But we probably shouldn't say that. After all, 假如你射杀了我  我的尸体倒在讲台上
if you shoot me, there's my corpse lying on the stage. 的确  那是我的大脑
Well, there's my brain. 我的大脑仍然在我的脑袋里
My brain is still there in my head. 但那时我已经不是一个人了
But we no longer have a person. 我已经死了
The person has died. 意味着我这个人不复存在了
The person, it seems, no longer exists. 这到底正确与否
Whether strictly that's the best thing to say or not 就是我们未来两周将要讨论的问题
is a question we'll have to come to in a couple of weeks. 但我们可以确定的是心灵已经被摧毁了
But it seems pretty clear that the mind has been destroyed, 即使大脑还在
even though the brain is still there. 所以我认为  至少在需要严谨的时候
So I think, at least when there's the need to be careful-- 也许我们并不常需要如此严谨
maybe we don't normally have a need to be careful-- 但是当我们需要谨慎时
but when there's the need to be careful, 我们应该会说
we should say, 心灵是表达
talk of the mind is a way of talking about 肉体人类能力的一种方式
the P-functioning of the body. 现今科学认为
Our best science suggests 一个运作良好的肉体能够做到以下事情
that a well-functioning body can perform these things, 思考  规划  以及彼此相爱  这都得益于
can think and plan and fall in love by virtue of the fact 大脑的正常运作
that the brain is functioning properly. 这是物理主义的观点
That's the physicalist view. 二元论认为  什么是死亡
On the dualist view, what was death? 死亡可能是心灵和肉体的分离
Death is presumably the separation of the mind and the body, 也许是伴随着躯体
perhaps the permanent separation, 殒灭的永久分离
with the destruction of the body. 物理主义认为死亡是什么
What's death on the physicalist view? 灵魂这种额外的实体并不存在
Well, there is no extra entity, the soul. 心灵也只是肉体所拥有的一项特殊的能力
The mind is just the proper P-functioning of the body. 所以  心灵也就伴随着身体
So, the mind gets destroyed when the ability of the body 正常运作能力的毁灭而毁灭
to function in that way has been destroyed. 死亡  简单地说  就是一系列功能的终结
Death is, roughly, the end of this set of functioning. 以上内容还有待梳理
Again, this probably should be cleaned up 未来两周我们将会花上一天半左右的时间
and in a couple of weeks we'll spend a day or half period trying, 试着梳理这些内容  使其更加精确
to clean it up and make it somewhat more precise. 但是死亡没有什么神秘可言
But there's nothing mysterious about death 从物理主义的角度来看
from the physicalist point of view, 至少死亡的基本定义是不神秘的
at least about the basic idea of what's going on in death. 比如  我有一个立体声音响
I've got a stereo. 假设我拿着我的扬声器给你们播放音乐
Suppose I hold up my boom box for you and it's playing music. 这是它的功能之一
It's one of the things it can do. 随后我把它扔到地上  摔碎它
And I drop in on the ground, smashing it. 那它就不能正常工作了
Well, it no longer can function properly. 它坏掉了
It's broken. 一旦坏了就不能正常运转  这并不神秘
There's no mystery why it can't function once it's broken. 死亡从根本上说就是我们肉体的损坏
Death is basically just the breaking down of the body, 在物理主义看来
on the physicalist point of view, 肉体再也不能正常工作了
so that it no longer functions properly. 另一个值得一提的
One other point worth emphasizing 物理主义观点是这样的
and sketching the physicalist view is this. 如前所说  物理主义者不否认心灵的存在
So, as I said, physicalists don't deny that there are minds. 即使我们说  我们只是肉体
Even though we say "We're just bodies," 但那并不意味着我们只是随随便便的肉体
that doesn't mean that we're just any old body. 物理主义并不是说
It's not as though the physicalist view is, 我们是有思维幻觉的肉体
"We're bodies that have some illusion of thinking." 不  我们是具有真正思考能力的肉体
No, we're bodies that really do think. 所以心灵的确存在
So there really are minds. 我们可以站在物理主义者的角度上
We could, on the physicalist point of view, 称其为灵魂
call those souls. 如同从物理主义的角度探讨心灵一样
Just like there's no danger in talking of the mind from the physicalist perspective 探讨灵魂也不是什么特别危险的事情
there wouldn't be any serious danger in talking about a soul. 而且  在某些情况下
And so, in certain contexts, 依照我这个物理主义者的心情  我感到很惬意
I'm perfectly comfortable--in my physicalist moods, 探讨人的灵魂  我也感到很惬意
I am perfectly comfortable--talking about this person's soul. 思考灵魂是高尚还是卑劣时
He's got a good soul, a bad soul, 阅读莎士比亚作品时  我都感到很惬意
how the soul soars when I read Shakespeare, or what have you. 谈论灵魂并不是什么令人沮丧或不得体的事情
There's nothing upsetting or improper about the language of the soul, 即使是从物理主义的角度来看
even on the physicalist point of view. 不过在课堂上  为了避免歧义
But in this class, just to try to keep us from getting confused, 就像我之前说的  而且我要再次重申
as I indicated before and I want to remind you, 我会尽量少用"灵魂"这个词
I'm going to save the word "Soul"; 至少我会将"灵魂"这个词留到
I'm going to at least try to save the word "Soul" for 我讲二元论的时候再用
when I'm talking about the dualist view. 这么说吧
So we might put it this way. 中立的表达方式是"心灵"
The neutral term is going to be "Mind." 我们都赞同人是有心灵的
We all agree that people have minds, 它就像是我们人格的归属或是基石
sort of the house or the seat of our personalities. 问题是  心灵是什么
The question is, "What is a mind?" 二元论认为心灵就是灵魂
The dualist position is that the mind is a soul 而灵魂是一种非物质实体
and the soul is an immaterial object. 所以当我使用"灵魂"这个词时
So when I use the word "Soul," 我将会把它用在形而上学的观点里
I will try to reserve it for the metaphysical view, 这种观点认为  灵魂是非物质的
according to which souls are something immaterial. 而物理主义的观点则与之相对
In contrast to that, we've got the physicalist view. 物理主义者也相信人有心灵
Physicalists also believe in minds. 但是心灵只不过是肉体能力的
But minds are just a way of talking about 另一种表达方式
the abilities of the body. 所以物理主义者不相信
So physicalists do not believe in 任何超越肉体的非物质实体的存在
any immaterial object above and beyond the body that's part of a person. 说得更明白一点
Just to keep things clear, 我会说物理主义者
I will say that physicalists, 唯物主义者  不相信灵魂
materialists, do not believe in souls. 为了讲课的需要
Because, for the purposes of this class, 我会将"灵魂"这个词
I'm going to reserve the word "Soul" 留到讲心灵的非物质性概念时再用
for the immaterialist conception of the mind. 在其他情形下  则可以对灵魂畅所欲言
In other contexts--no harm in talking about souls. 以上就是两种基本的理论
So these are the two basic positions: 一种是二元论的观点
the dualist view on the one hand, 另一种是物理主义的观点
the physicalist view on the other. 需要注意的是
The question we need to turn to-- 如果说二元论是一种熟知的观点
I take it that just as the dualist view is a familiar one, 那么物理主义的观点其实也很常见
so it's true that the physicalist view is a familiar one. 不论你自己相信与否
Whether or not you believe it, 毕竟  你知道有些人是相信的
you are familiar with the fact that some people believe it, 最起码  你想知道它到底正不正确
or at least you wonder whether it's true. 科学有没有强制要求
Does science require that 我们接受物理主义的观点
we believe in the physicalist view or not? 接下来  我们的问题是
The question we want to turn to, then, is, 这两种观点  我们到底应该相信哪一种
"Which of these two views should we believe: 二元论还是物理主义
the dualist position or the physicalist position?" 而最为关键的  也许是
And the crucial question, presumably, is, 我们应该相信灵魂是存在的吗
"Should we believe in the existence of a soul?" 两种观点都承认肉体的存在
Both sides believe in bodies. 前面已经谈到  二元论
As I say, the dualist position, 就我们的理解
as we're understanding it, 并不认为只有心灵而没有肉体
is not a view that says there are only minds, there are no bodies. 二元论者认同肉体的存在
Dualists believe that there are bodies. 他们相信  肉体与灵魂都是存在的
They believe that there are souls as well as bodies. 而物理主义者认为  肉体存在而灵魂不存在
Physicalists believe there are bodies but no souls. 所以他们都赞同肉体的存在
So there's an agreement that there are bodies. 这里就有一具
Here is one. 你们每个人也都"拖着"肉体
Each one of you is sort of dragging one around with you. 大家一致都同意存在肉体
There's agreement that there's bodies. 问题是  有没有什么凌驾于肉体之上的东西
The question is, "Are there anything beyond bodies?" 存在某种凌驾于肉体之上的东西吗
Is there anything beyond the body? 那是灵魂吗
Is there a soul? 灵魂存在吗
Are there souls? 这是我们今后几周主要考虑的问题
That's the question that's going to concern us for a couple of weeks. 如果我们扪心自问
If we ask ourselves, 我们凭什么相信灵魂存在
"What reasons do we have to believe in a soul?" 我们也许就会开始怀疑
we might start by asking, 我们凭什么相信其他所有事物存在
what reasons do we have to believe in anything? 怎样证明事物的存在呢
How do we prove the existence of things? 对于很多我们熟悉的日常物体
For lots of familiar everyday objects, 答案十分明确
the answer is fairly straightforward. 我们可以通过我们的五感来证明它们的存在
We prove their existence by using our five senses. 我们可以看到它们
We just see them. 我如何知道椅子是存在的
How do I know that there are chairs? 我面前有一些椅子
Well, there are some chairs in front of me. 张开眼睛我就能看到他们
Open my eyes, I see them. 我怎么知道讲台是存在的
How do I know that there is a lectern? 因为我看到它了  我能触摸它  感受到它
Well, I see it. I can touch it. I feel it. 我怎么知道树木是存在的
How do I know that there are trees? 因为我可以看到它们
I see them. 我怎么知道鸟是存在的
How do I know that there are birds? 我可以看到它们  可以听见它们的声音
I see them. I hear them. 我怎么知道苹果是存在的
How do I know that there are apples? 我可以看到它们  尝尝它们的味道  等等
I see them. I taste them. So forth and so on. 但这种方法显然不能用来证明灵魂的存在
That approach pretty clearly isn't going to work for souls, 因为灵魂  我再一次说明
because a soul--and again, 从这种形而上学的角度来看
we've got in mind this metaphysical view, 灵魂是非物质实体
according to which it's something immaterial-- 我们看不到它
isn't something we see. 我们无法尝到摸到闻到或者听到
It's not something we taste or touch or smell or hear. 我们无法通过五感直接观察到灵魂
We don't directly observe souls with our five senses. 你可能会想
You might wonder, well, 难道我自己没有直接观察到我有灵魂吗
don't I sort of directly observe it in myself that I have a soul? 尽管我想有些人
Although I guess there have been people 声称他们能观察到  但我对此并不苟同
who've made that sort of claim, it seems false to me. 我想请各位内视自己一下
I can only ask each of you to sort of introspect for a second. 睁开你们的心灵之眼  然后问自己
Turn your mind's eye inward and ask. 有没有看到体内的灵魂
Do you see a soul inside you? 我的答案是否定的
I don't think so. 我只能看到身外的事物
I see things outside me. 我能感应到肉体里某些特定的感觉
I feel certain sensations in my body, 但我并不认为那样我就能观察到灵魂
but it doesn't seem as though I observe a soul. 即便我相信灵魂存在  我也看不到它
Even if I believe in a soul, I don't see it. 我们如何能证明那些
How do we prove the existence of things 我们无法依靠五感感知的事物呢
we can't see or hear or taste and so forth? 通常的做法
The usual method, 当然  这也许不是唯一的方法
maybe not the only method, 不过通常的做法是这样
but the usual method is something like this. 有时  我们通过假设
Sometimes, we posit 存在某些
the existence of something 我们看不到的事物以解释另一些
that we can't see so as to explain something else 我们一致认同存在着的事物
that we all agree takes place. 我为什么会相信原子的存在
Why do I believe in the existence of atoms? 我并没有看到具体的原子
I don't see individual atoms. 为什么我相信原子的存在  它是如此之小
Why do I believe in the existence of atoms so small 以至于我根本就看不到它们
that I can't see them? 因为原子理论能够解释一些现象
Because atomic theory explains things. 当我假设原子以某种特定结构存在
When I posit the existence of atoms with certain structures 以一定的方式相互作用
and certain sort of ways of interacting 互相结合  集聚
and combining and building up, 通过假定原子存在
when I posit atoms, 我立即就能够解释
suddenly I can explain all 物理世界中各种各样的现象了
sorts of things about the physical world. 所以说我推测原子的存在是基于
So, I infer the existence of atoms based on the fact 该假设使得我能够解释
that doing that allows me to explain 所需解释的一些现象
things that need explaining. 这是我们常用的一种论证方式
This is a kind of argument that we use all the time. 我如何证实
How do I posit-- 我为什么会相信X射线是存在的
why do I believe in x-rays, 尽管我压根看不见它
even though I don't see them? 因为那样做使我可以解释特定的现象
Because doing that allows me to explain certain things. 我为什么会相信在望远镜正常观测范围外的
Why do I believe in certain planets too far away 遥远之处存在行星
to be observed directly through a telescope? 因为这样假定能帮助你解释
Because positing them allows you explain things 诸如星体运行  引力波动
about the rotation of the star or the gravitational fluctuations, 等现象
what have you. 我们推断一些看不到的事物的存在
We make inferences to the existence of things we can't see, 因为这样做可以便于我们
when doing that helps us 解释某些我们不相信就无法解释的事情
to explain something we can't otherwise explain. 这种论证模式
This pattern of argument, 十分普遍  被称为
which is ubiquitous, is called 最佳解释推理
"Inference to the best explanation." 关于最佳解释  我想强调一点
I want to emphasize this bit about "Best explanation." 我们确信我们需要某些东西
What we're justified in believing are those things that we need, 不仅在于它们为我们提供了某种解释
not simply when they would offer us some kind of explanation, 还在于它们能使我们
but when they offer us 想出的最佳解释
the best explanation that we can think of. 所以  我为什么相信微生物
So look, why am I justified in believing in germs, 相信各种肉眼无法看到的病毒
various kinds of viruses that I can't see, 细菌等诸如此类我看不到的东西确实存在
or bacteria or what have you, that I can't see? 因为那样做我就可以解释人为什么会生病
Because doing that allows me to explain why people get sick. 不过还有一些其他的东西
But there's other things 也可以帮助我解释这些现象
that would allow me to explain that as well. 比如魔鬼
How about demons? 我可以相信存在魔鬼  然后说
I could believe in demons and say, 人为什么会生病和死亡
"Why does a person get sick and die? 那是恶魔在作祟
Well, it is demonic possession." 我为什么不认为相信恶魔的存在是正确的呢
Why aren't I justified in believing in the existence of demons? 它也提供了一种可能的解释
It's a possible explanation. 但是  我们认为正确并坚信着的
But what we seem to be justified in believing 不是某些随便的陈旧解释
is not just any old explanation, 而是  最佳解释
but the "Best explanation." 现在我们得到了两种对立的解释
So we've got two rival explanations. 把它们概括一下
We've got, roughly, 微生物理论和恶魔理论
germ theory and we've got demon theory. 我们需要问问自己
We have to ask ourselves, 这两者哪一个能更好地
"Which of these does a better job 解释关于疾病的一系列现象
of explaining the facts about disease?" 谁得了什么病
Who gets what kinds of diseases? 病情如何蔓延
How diseases spread, 应该怎样治疗或治愈疾病
how they can be treated or cured, 它们什么时候会置人于死地
when they kill somebody. 事实上
The fact of the matter is, 恶魔理论并不能很好地解释疾病的问题
demon theory doesn't do a very good job of explaining disease, 而微生物理论却能将问题分析得很透彻
while germ theory does do a good job. 相较之下  微生物理论是更好的解释
It's the better explanation. 所以  我们相信微生物理论合理
So we're justified in believing in germs, 而恶魔理论则不合理
but not demons. 这是逻辑推论的结果
It's a matter of inference, 不是随便什么陈旧的解释
not just to any old explanation, 而是最佳解释的推论结果
but inference to the best explanation. 那好  现在我们要问问自己
All right, so, what we need to ask ourselves, 灵魂是什么
then, is, "What about the soul?" 我们无法看到灵魂
We can't observe souls. 不过还是有支持它存在的论证方式
But here's a possible way of arguing for them. 有没有这样的事物
Are there things that need to be explained 只有假定灵魂  这种凌驾于肉体之上的
that we could explain if we posited the existence 非物质实体存在  才能对其进行解释
of a soul, an immaterial object, above and beyond the body? 是否有某种现象  使得用灵魂存在的假设
Are there things that the existence of a soul could explain 能比局限于肉体本身的分析
and explain better than the explanation 解释得更好呢
that we would have if we had to limit ourselves to bodies? 你也可以把它当作
You might put it this way 这种论证的最简解释方式
as sort of the easiest version of this kind of argument, 以便于理解
for our purposes. 我们是否存在一些
Are there things about us 物理主义者无法解释的问题
that the physicalist cannot explain? 是否存在某些人类的奥秘或谜团
Are there mysteries or puzzles about people 物理主义对此束手无策
that the physicalist just draws a blank, 而二元论者
but if we become dualists, 却能解释它们
we can explain these features? 假设  存在这样的一个特性
Suppose there was a feature like that, 称之为特性F  那我们会说
feature F. Then we'd say, 尽管我们看不见灵魂
"Look, although we can't see the soul, 但我们仍然有理由相信灵魂存在
we have reason to believe in the soul, 因为假设灵魂存在能够帮我们
because positing the existence of a soul helps us 解释那个我们都承认的
to explain the existence of feature F, F的存在
which we all agree we've got." 假设  我们不能从物理主义的角度
Suppose it was true that you couldn't explain love 来解释爱
from the physicalist perspective. 但是我们都知道人会坠入爱河
But we all know that people do fall in love, 而灵魂能够帮助我们解释这一点
but souls would allow us to explain that. 于是  我们就有了一个灵魂存在的论证
Boom, we'd have an argument for the existence of a soul. 这可以作为一个
It would be an example of 最佳解释推论的例子
"Inference to the best explanation." 但关键问题是
Now, the crucial question, of course, is, 那个相关的特性F是什么
"What's the relevant feature F?" 是否存在物理主义者不能解释的这种特性
Is there some feature that the physicalist can't explain 使得我们不得不诉诸于
and so we need to appeal 某些超物理的东西来解释
to something extra-physical to explain it? 或者  物理主义者只能
Or the physicalist can 提供一个很蹩脚的解释
only do a rotten job of explaining, 就像恶魔理论那样
like demon theory did? 而如果我们诉诸于非物理的方式
And then, if we were to appeal to something nonphysical, 就能解释得更好
we would do a better job of explaining. 如果我们能找到合适的特性F
If we could find the right F, 并且给出论证
and make out the argument, 物理主义者无法解释
the physicalist can't explain it 或者解释得很牵强
or does a bad job of explaining it 而二元论的解释更合理
and the dualist does a better job of explaining it, 那么我们就有理由相信有灵魂存在
we'd have reason to believe in the soul. 与哲学里的其他论证一样
Like all arguments in philosophy, 这将是一个暂时性的论证
it would be a tentative argument. 我们可能会有理由相信灵魂的存在
We'd sort of have some reason to believe in the soul 直到我们沿着这个方向探究到其他论证的存在
until we sort of see what next argument comes down the road. 但至少它给了我们一些相信灵魂存在的理由
But at least it would give us some reason to believe in the soul. 我的问题是
What I want to do is ask, 特性F可能是什么
"What might feature F be?" 特性F存在吗
Is there any such feature F? 为这样的事实打下基础也是很有价值的
It's probably also worth underlining the fact 我正在做的
that what I've really been doing 是将一系列的论证串联起来
is running through a series of arguments. 最佳解释的推论
"Inference to the best explanation" 并不仅仅是关于灵魂的一个论证
is not a single argument for the soul. 而更像是某类论证的总称
It's rather the name for a kind of argument. 根据你所挑选的不同功能特性F
Depending on what F you fill in the blank with, 以及你试图解释的现象或事实
what pet feature or fact you're trying 诉诸于灵魂来进行解释
to explain by appeal to the soul, 你会得到不同的论点
you get a different argument. 所以让我们扪心自问
So let's ask ourselves, 有没有这样的现象  需要我们诉诸于灵魂
"Are there things that we need to appeal to the soul 才能对其作出合理的解释
in order to explain these things about us?" 我先举个例子
Here's a first try. 我首先来
Actually, let me start by saying 区分一下两个不同种类的特征
I'm going to distinguish two broad families of characteristics 我们也许会用到它们
we might appeal to. 我们可能会说
We might say, 一种方法主要关注于我们自身普遍
one set of approaches focus on ordinary, 常见的日常事实
familiar, everyday facts about us. 我们有彼此相爱的能力
The fact that we love, 我们有思考的能力
the fact that we think, 我们有感受情绪的能力
the fact that we experience emotions, 这些都是我们普遍具有的能力
what have you--these are ordinary features of us. 我将从这里开始  然后转而讨论
I'm going to start with those and then I'll turn, 另一些
eventually, to another set of possible things 需要给予解释的现象
that might need explaining, 那些我们可能视之为异乎寻常的
which we might think of as extraordinary, 超自然现象
supernatural things. 也许有某些超自然的关于
Maybe there are certain supernatural things about 亡者或是弥留之人的交流  或是
communication from the dead or 濒死体验
near-death experiences 需要借助灵魂才能解释得通
that need to be explained in terms of the soul. 我们之后会讲到那些
We'll get to those, 但是我们将从我们自身常见的
but we'll start with ordinary, 日常事实讲起
everyday, hum-drum facts about us. 虽然我们对其早已司空见惯
Even though they're ordinary and familiar, 但还是需要
it still could turn out that we need to 诉诸灵魂来解释它们
appeal to souls in order to explain them. 那么  首先
So, to start, how about this? 我们以一个熟知的事实开头
Start with a familiar fact, 我已经多次提到过
which I've already drawn your attention to a couple of times, 以死尸来说明
that you can have a body that's dead. 一具尸体显然不是一个人
You could have a corpse, and that's clearly not a person. 它不具有生命
It's not a living being. 就不能称之为人
It's not a person. 它无法动弹
It doesn't do anything. 只是躺在那里
It just lies there; 而你我的肉体都是有生命的
whereas your body, my body is animated. 我的双手可以挥舞
I move my hands around, 我的嘴唇可以翕张
my mouth is going up and down, 我可以从讲台的一处
it walks from one part 走到另一处
of the stage to the other part of the stage. 也许我们需要诉诸灵魂
Maybe we need to appeal to the soul 来解释  什么赋予肉体以生命
in order to explain what animates the body. 也就是说
The thought would be, 当灵魂与肉体分离时
when the soul and the body have been separated-- 以二元论的解释
such the dualist explains-- 灵魂就丧失了对肉体的控制能力
the soul has lost its ability to give commands to the body. 所以肉体不再具有生命力
So the body is no longer animated. 于是我们得到了对
So we've got a possible explanation of the difference 生命体与非生命体之间区别的一种可能的解释
between an animated and an unanimated or an inanimate body to it. 灵魂是否与肉体保持着对应的联系呢
Is the soul in contact of the right sort with the body? 有一种可能的解释
There's a possible explanation. 你可能会说
You might say, 你看  物理主义不会告诉我们那些的
"Look, the physicalist can't tell us that, 因为尸体所有的
because all the physical parts are still there 身体器官部分都还存在
when you've got the corpse, 至少对于还未腐烂的尸体而言是这样的
at least if it's a fresh corpse before the decay has set in. 所以我们需要诉诸于灵魂的存在
So, we need to appeal to the existence of a soul 以解释你我都具有的肉体的生命力
in order to explain the animation of bodies 我之前说过  我会将
Well, I said I was going to run through 一系列的论证串联起来
a series of arguments 不过那并不意味着
but that doesn't mean that-- 灯光熄灭了一下
the lights have just turned off; 我也不知道怎么回事
I don't know why-- 那并不意味着我认为这些论点都成立
that doesn't mean that I think the arguments will all work. 第一节课上  我就声明
I announced on the first day of class that I don't, 本人并不相信灵魂的存在
myself, believe in the existence of a soul. 因此  你们大可不必惊异于
As such, it shouldn't be any surprise to you 我接下来的举动
that what I'm going to do 当我们讨论这些论点时  我会说
as we run through each of these arguments is to say, 我并不赞同这个观点  我的理由是
"I'm not convinced by it and here's why." 由于我并不认同我将要介绍的论点
Now since I think that the arguments I'm about to sketch-- 尽管我已经开始概述其中的第一个分论点了
and I've just started sketching the first of is fails 我希望你们能够认真思考
I hope you'll think it over 最终你们也会同我的观点一致
and you'll eventually come to agree with me, 的确  这些论点都不成立
yeah, these arguments don't really work after all. 不过对我来说更重要的是
But what's more important to me is 你们至少对这些论点做出思考
that you at least think about each of these arguments. 这个论点有能力
Is this a convincing argument 说明灵魂存在吗
for the existence of a soul? 如果你觉得有
If you think so, 你会如何驳斥
what response do you want to offer to 我的反对意见呢
the objections that I'm giving? 如果这个论点没有说服力
If this argument doesn't work, 有没有其他更具说服力的论点
is there another argument for the existence of a soul 来论述灵魂的存在呢
that you think is a better one? 第一个论点
First argument, 你需要借助灵魂来解释肉体的生命力
you need the soul in order to explain the animation of the body. 从物理主义的角度来说
From the physicalist point of view, 下此结论  为时尚早
of course, the answer is going to be "Too quick." 一具有生命力的肉体
To have an animated body, 必须能正常运作
you need to have a functioning body. 当你面对一具死尸时
It's true that when you've got a corpse, 肉体所有的部分的确都摆在那里
you've got all the parts there, 但它们显然无法正常运作
but clearly they're not functioning properly. 只能告诉我们  部件都损坏了
But all that shows us is, the parts have broken. 还记得音响的例子吗
Remember my stereo? 我扔下音响
I dropped my stereo. 它掉到了地上
It falls on the stage. 再也不能工作了
It doesn't work anymore. 它无法再播放音乐
It stops giving off music. 于是  扬声器不再发出乐曲声了
My boombox stops giving off music. 那并不是因为我们之前在里面放了一张CD
That's not because previously--we had a CD inside of it, 装上了电池
we had some batteries. 我们把整个音响摔到地上
We dropped the whole thing. 并非由于先前
It's not as though previously 有什么非物质在里面
there was something nonmaterial there. 现在所有的元件都还在
We've got all the same parts there, 只不过是被摔坏了
but the parts are now broken. 他们之间的连接方式出了问题
They're not connected to each other in the right way. 能量无法再从电池
The energy is not flowing from the batteries 通过电线流入CD部件中
through the wires to the CD component. 对于物理主义来说
There's nothing mysterious from the physicalist perspective 物体会损坏是微不足道的
about the idea that a physical object can break. 尽管我们还需要探讨
Although we need to offer a story about 是什么因素
what makes the parts work 使得各部分在正确的连接方式下
when they're connected with each other 可以正常工作
and interacting in the right way, 但无需诉诸于物质之外的事物
there's no need to appeal to anything beyond the physical. 假如要提炼这个观点
Suppose we try to refine the argument. 比如说
Suppose we say, 你需要诉诸灵魂以解释
"You need to appeal to the soul in order to explain not just 肉体不仅能够活动  无意识地手舞足蹈
that the body moves around, flails, 还能有目的性地运动
but the body acts purposefully." 应该是有什么在发出指令
We need something to be pulling the strings, 引导肉体活动
to be directing the body. 那就是灵魂的职责
That's what the soul does, 二元论如是说
so says the dualist. 然而  物理主义会回击道
In response, the physicalist is going to say, 对  肉体的确
"Yes it's true that bodies 不仅仅是在做无规则运动
don't just move around in random patterns." 人类的肉体不只是这样
Human bodies don't do that. 所以我们需要某个东西来引导
So we need something to direct it, 但是为什么不可能仅仅是
but why couldn't that just be, 肉体某个特定的部分在扮演着
one particular part of the body plays 指挥舱的角色呢
the part of the command module? 假设有一个热追踪导弹
Suppose I've got a heat-seeking missile 正在追踪一架飞机
which tracks down the plane. 当飞机进行闪避时
As the plane tries to dodge it, 导弹会自动修正路线
the missile corrects its course. 它并不是随机变动
It's not just moving randomly, 而是有目的地移动
it's moving purposefully. 最好存在某种东西可以解释
There had better be something that explains, 是什么控制着导弹的运动
that's controlling, the motions of the missile. 这个问题的答案
But for all that, 可能是导弹上的某一特定部分
it could just be a particular piece of the missile that does it. 说得再远一点
More gloriously, 想象我们正在开发机器人
we could imagine building some kind of a robot 那种可以执行各种任务的机器人
that does a variety of tasks. 它不能随机移动
It's not moving randomly, 所有任务都由机器人里的CPU掌控
but the tasks are all controlled by the CPU within the robot. 物理主义认为
The physicalist says 我们并不需要诉诸任何
we don't need to appeal to anything 像灵魂那样夸张的东西来解释
as extravagant as a soul in order to explain 为什么肉体不会随机乱动
the fact that bodies don't just move randomly, 而是在控制下进行的有目的的活动
but they move in purposeful ways that are controlled. 任何一个质疑  都会有回应
For each objection, there's a response. 你可以假想二元论反驳说
You could imagine the dualist coming back and saying, 在热追踪导弹
"Look, in the case of the heat-seeking missile 或是机器人的例子里
or the robot for that matter, 尽管他们各尽其职
although it's doing things, 但也只是恪守命令
it's just obeying orders. 而这些命令
And the orders were given to it 则是由外部发出的
from something outside itself." 有程序操控着机器人和导弹
Something programmed the robot or the missile. 所以我们是不是也需要肉体的外部程序
So don't we need there to be something outside the body 来操控自身呢  那可能就是灵魂了
that programs the body? That could be the soul. 这个问题更深刻了
That's a harder question. 一定有某种物质在体外操控我们的躯体吗
Must there be something outside the body that controls the body? 当然有一种说法是
One possibility, of course, is, 为什么不说人类也是
why not say that people are just robots 也是由外部指令控制着的机器人呢
as well and we get our commands from outside? 从某个大家熟悉的宗教观点来看
On a familiar religious view, 上帝用泥沙尘土建造亚当
God built Adam out of dirt, out of dust. 于是亚当就相当于某种形式的机器人
Adam is just a certain kind of robot then. 上帝为亚当注入生命
God breathes into Adam. 在某种形式上就是打开了他的开关
That's sort of turning it on. 也许人们就是被上帝控制的机器人
Maybe people are just robots commanded from outside by God. 不过那并不意味着我们比
But that doesn't mean that there's anything more to us 机器人更高级
than there is to the robot. 可能会有这样一种回应
That's one possible response. 另一种不同的回应
A different response, of course, 为什么我们不能拥有制造机器人的机器人呢
is why couldn't we have robots that just build more robots? 这样  如果你问起
Then, if you ask, 这些命令从哪里发出
"Where did the commands come from?" 答案是
the answer is, 在他们被创造出来时
"When they were built, 就被构造成一种拥有特定指令
they were built in such a way as to have certain instructions 使它们能够依之开始工作的样子
that they begin to follow out." 就像人类拥有基因编码
Just like people have a genetic code, perhaps, 给我们传达各种各样
that gives us various instructions 得以遵循的指示
that we begin to follow out, 或者是某种与生俱来的心理  等等等等
or certain innate psychology or what have you. 这个观点很快变得离经叛道
The argument quickly becomes very, very messy. 灵魂的支持者开始想要抗议
The fan of the soul begins to want to protest, 听着  我们不是机器人
"Look, we're not just robots. 我们不是
We're not just robots 脑袋里被设定了某种程序只知服从的机器人
with some sort of program in our brain that we're following. 我们拥有自由的意志
We've got free will. 机器人没有自由意志
Robots can't have free will. 所以我们比机器人高级很多
So there's got to be something more to us than robots. 我们不可能只是物质的东西
We can't just be physical things." 这是一个非常有趣的观点
This is an interesting argument, 也很有新意
and I think it's a new argument. 一开始  我们诉诸于灵魂这样一个概念
We started with the idea you needed to appeal to souls 是为了解释
in order to roughly explain 为何人类的肉体能移动
why human bodies move, 为何我们有生命力
why we're animated 为何我们能够非随机性的运动
or why we move in nonrandom ways. 我想大家应该能非常清楚地看到
I think it's fairly clear that you don't need to 这样的诉求并非是必须的
appeal to souls in order to do that. 我认为  如果我们能分辨生命体和
Appeal to a physical body suffices, 非生命体的区别
I think, to have an explanation as to the difference between 理解我们的非随机行为
an animated and an inanimate body, 就足以解释有关物理的肉体的一切问题了
how bodies will move in nonrandom ways. 如果大脑是我们的中央处理器
If the brain is our CPU, 那么我们将会有深思熟虑的
then we'll behave in deliberate, 有目的的行为
purposeful ways just like a 就像如此运作的机器人一样
robot will behave in deliberate, purposeful ways. 因此对于这个初始的论点
So this initial argument, 我认为它并不令人信服
I think, is not compelling. 不过我们仍想知道  这个新的论点怎么样
Still, we might wonder, what about this new argument? 这个事实怎么样
What about the fact that-- 我们说过有一大类观点
We said there's a family of arguments, 它们有一些共同的结构
all of which have the general structure, 有关于这个最佳解释的推论
inference to the best explanation, 需要用灵魂的概念
you need souls in order to 来解释功能特征F  代入一个不同的
explain feature F. Plug in a different feature F 功能特征就会得到一个新的论点
and you get a new argument. 我们一开始提到的那个观点
The one we started with-- 你需要灵魂来解释肉体的生命力
you need the soul to explain the animation of the body-- 我想那个论点并不成立
that argument, I think, doesn't work. 现在我们有了一个新论点
Now we've got a new one. 那就是我们需要灵魂来解释自由意志
You need the soul in order to explain free will. 我们等会再回到这个论点上
Let me come back to that argument later. 这是个很好的论点
It's a good argument. 值得认真探讨
It's an argument well worth taking seriously, 但我们待会再说
but let's come back to it later. 首先  让我们来了解一下其他
First, let's run through some other things 那些备选的功能特征的诉求对象
that might be appealed to as candidates for feature F. 假如有人说
Suppose somebody says, 听着  我承认我们不需要诉诸
"Look, it's true that we don't need to 灵魂来解释
appeal to souls in order to explain 为何肉体能以非随机的形式移动
why bodies move around in a nonrandom fashion. 但人类有一种特殊的技能
But people have a very special ability"-- 于是论证得以延续
and so the argument goes-- 纯粹的肉体无法拥有
"That mere bodies couldn't have, 物理主义者不能解释的技能  即思考
physicalists can't explain. That's the ability to think. 这就是推理的能力
It's the ability to reason. 人们拥有信仰和欲望
People have beliefs and desires. 而基于他们满足自己欲望的信仰
And based on their beliefs about how to fulfill their desires, 人们作出计划
they make plans. 他们拥有策略
They have strategies. 他们琢磨该怎么做
They reason about what to do. 这些与我们自身联系紧密的东西
This tightly connected set of facts about us-- 信仰   欲望  论证  谋略  规划
beliefs, desires, reasoning, strategizing, planning-- 非得诉求灵魂才能解释
you need to appeal to a soul"-- 这个论点于是变成这样
so the argument goes--; 你需要诉诸灵魂来解释这些
"You need to appeal to a soul to explain that. 没有一个机器拥有信仰
No mere machine could believe. 没有一个机器拥有欲望
No mere machine has desires. 没有一个机器可以推理
No mere machine could reason." 你对于简单机器抱有这种想法
It's easy to see why you might think that sort of thing 是很自然的事
when you stick to simple machines. 很显然对于很多种机器来说
It's pretty clear that there are lots of machines 讨论它们的信仰  欲望  目标或论证
that it doesn't seem natural to 是一件很不自然的事
ascribe beliefs or desires or goals or reasoning to. 譬如说  我的割草机并不想割草
My lawnmower, for example, doesn't want to cut the grass. 虽然事实上它割了草
Even though it does cut the grass, 但它并没有这个愿望
it doesn't have the desire. 它并不会对自己发问
It doesn't think to itself, 我该如何割掉那束一直躲着我的草
"How shall I get that blade of grass that's been eluding me?" 所以很容易明白
So it's easy to see 为什么机器无法做到
why we might be tempted to say 我们刚才讨论的那些特质
no mere machine could think or reason or have beliefs or desires. 这个论点在今天远不及在20年前
That argument's much less compelling nowadays 或40年前有说服力了
than I think it would have been 20 or 40 years ago. 在一个有着能搭载极端复杂程序的电脑的时代
In an era of computers with quite sophisticated computer programs, 最起码
it seems, at the very least, 谈论信仰  欲望
natural to talk about beliefs, desires, 论证  谋划  是很自然的事
and reasoning and strategizing. 所以假如说我们有一个会下国际象棋的电脑
So suppose, for example, we've got a chess-playing computer. 在我家里的电脑里有一个
On my computer at home I've got a program 玩国际象棋的程序
that allows my computer to play chess. 我自己下棋下得很臭
I, myself, stink at chess. 这个程序瞎下都能击败我
This program can beat me blind. 我移动我的象
I move my bishop, 电脑就会下皇后
the computer moves its queen. 我们会怎么理解电脑呢
What do we say about the computer? 为什么它要移动它的皇后
Why did the computer move its queen, 或说成是一个虚拟的后
or virtual queen? 为什么它要移动它的皇后
Why did the computer move its queen? 一个很自然的说法是
The natural thing to say is, 它担心它的王会暴露出来
it's worried about the fact that the king is exposed 因此它试图通过吃掉我的象来封死我
and it's trying to block me by capturing my bishop. 这就是我们对电脑程序的理解
That is what we say about computer-playing programs. 想想我们的做法
Think about what we're doing. 我们把欲望归咎于程序
We're ascribing desires to the program. 我们认为它有最终赢得比赛的欲望
We're saying it's got an ultimate desire to win the game. 而其中的一个附属愿望就是
A certain subsidiary desire is 保护它的王  吃掉我的王
to protect its king, to capture my king. 而另一个附属欲望
A certain other subsidiary desire is, 毫无疑问  则是保护它其他的棋子们
no doubt, to protect its various other pieces along the way. 它有通过阻断特定棋路
It's got beliefs about how to do that by blocking certain paths 或者攻击我的棋子来达到目的的信念
or by making other pieces on my side vulnerable. 它有关于如何达成它的目标的信念
It's got beliefs about how to achieve its goals. 然后  它把那些信念和欲望组合起来
Then, it puts those combinations of beliefs 通过对我的棋路的理性回应
and desires into action by moving in a way 组成它的棋路
that's a rational response to my move. 这看起来好像是一件自然的事情
It looks as though the natural thing 说象棋程序
to say about the chess-playing computer is, 有自己的信念 有欲望
it does have beliefs. It does have desires. 有意图
It does have intentions. 有目标
It does have goals. 它能推理
It does reason. 它可以做到所有的这些
It does all of this. 这在有限的范围内是合理的
It's rational to this limited extent. 它只会下象棋
It's only able to play chess. 但从那种程度来说
But to that extent, 它做到了所有的这一切
it's doing all these things 而我们也没有说
and yet we're not tempted to say, are we, 这个电脑有个非物质的部分
that the computer has a nonphysical part? 我们能从纯物理的角度来解释
We can explain how the computer does all of this 电脑是怎么做到这些的
in strictly physical terms. 当然  一旦你开始用这种思维方式思考
Of course, once you start thinking of it this way, 你就会很自然地把这种思维应用到
it's natural to talk this way across a variety of things 电脑可能想要做的其它事情上
that the computer may be trying to do. 你们完全可以用二元论的观点来回应
It's perfectly open to you, as dualists, to respond by saying, 虽然我们把电脑拟人化
"Although we personify the computer, 把它当作一个人来对待
we treat it as though it was a person, 假定它也具有信念欲望等等那些特质
as though it had beliefs and desires and so forth, 但它并不真正拥有这些相关的信念和欲望
it doesn't really have the relevant beliefs and desires, 因为它没有任何信念或欲望
because it doesn't have any beliefs and desires, 因为任何物理对象都没有信念欲望
because no physical object could have beliefs and desires." 对此  我只想说
In response to that, I just want to say, 那会不会只是一种偏见呢
"Isn't that just prejudice?" 当然
Of course, 如果我们只是单纯地坚持
it is true that if we 说任何纯物理对象都不能真正
simply insist no physical object could really 拥有信念和欲望
have beliefs or desires, 那么当我们试图赋予象棋程序
then it will follow that when we are tempted to ascribe beliefs 信念和欲望的时候
and desires to my chess-playing computer, 我们就陷入了一个错觉
we're falling into an illusion. 这是我们假定
That will follow once we assume 物理对象没有信念或欲望的必然结果
that no physical object has beliefs or desires. 但我们这么说的理由何在
But what reason is there for saying it has no beliefs or desires? 剥夺电脑这些特质的
What grounds are there for withholding ascriptions 依据是什么
of beliefs and desires to the computer? 而这并不明朗
That's far from obvious. 有一种可能
Here's a possibility. 欲望  看上去
Desires, at the very least, seem to be, 起码在常规的例子里
at least in typical cases, 似乎是跟一系列的情绪紧密相连的
very closely tied to a series of emotions. 在玩象棋的时候  你因为希望
You get excited when you're playing chess 吃掉我的皇后下赢我而感到兴奋
at the prospect of capturing my queen and crushing me. 当你的棋子被威胁时你感到惊慌
You get worried when your pieces are threatened. 当然  更常见的情况下
Of course, more generally, 在你的爱人说爱你的时候
you get excited, your heart goes pitter-pat, 你会很激动  心跳加速
when your girlfriend or boyfriend says they love you. 当你考试考砸的时候
Your stomach sinks, 你的胃会垂下去  或者说
you have that sinking feeling in the pit of your stomach, 会有胃部下垂的感觉
when you get a bad grade on a test. 也许正是因为
Maybe what's really going on is the thought 欲望的因素
that there's an aspect of desire 以一种纯粹的行为面显现出来
that has a purely behavioral side, 致使你在下棋时一直抱有这个目标
that's moving pieces around in a way that would make sense 也许机器也能做到这一点
if you had this goal. And maybe machines can do that. 但是欲望的情绪面
But there's an aspect of desires, the emotional side, 是机器没有的  而我们有
that machines can't have, but we clearly do have. 也许我们想把情绪面整合到对欲望的讨论中
Maybe we want to build that emotional side into talk of desires. 所以如果我们说机器
So maybe if we want to say machines 没有也不可能有精神生活
don't have a mental life and couldn't have a mental life, 我们真正的意思是
what we really mean is 机器不能对事物产生情绪
no machine could feel anything emotionally. 我们来区分一下
So let's distinguish. 假设有一种
Let's say there's a way of 讨论信仰和欲望的方式
talking about beliefs and desires 是被一系列
which is just going to be captured 特定环境的
in terms of responding in 回应而捕获的
a way that makes sense given the environment. 也许电脑和机器人能做到这一点
Maybe computers and robots could do that. 显然我们的某个精神方面
But there's clearly a side of our mental life, 情绪方面  才我们最为担心的
the emotional side, where we might really worry, 机器人能感觉到爱吗
could a robot feel love? 它会畏惧什么吗
Could it be afraid of anything? 我们的问题是
Again, our question was, 我们是否需要诉诸灵魂来解释我们自己
"Do we need to appeal to souls to explain something about us?" 物理主义派说不而二元论者说是
The physicalist says "No"; the dualist says "Yes." 如果我们说的是精神的某个方面
If what we mean is the mental, but that the aspect, 即精神的表现面
the behavioral aspect of the mental, 是一个甚至连象棋程序都可能拥有的方面
where even a chess-playing computer probably has it, 那这就不是一个令人信服的论点
then that's not a very compelling argument. 物理主义者会说
The physicalist will say, 精神的那个方面已经很清楚了
"Look, that aspect of the mental is pretty clear. 我们可以从物理的层面来解释
We can explain it in physical terms." 但让我们来换个论点
But let's just switch the argument. 感情这个方面呢
What about emotions? 一个机器人有感情吗
Can a robot feel emotions? 一个纯粹的物理对象能坠入爱河吗
Could a purely physical being fall in love? 它能畏惧什么吗
Could it be afraid of things? 它会期待什么吗
Could it hope for something? 那么我们最新版本的论点就是
The latest version of our argument then is, 人可以有感情
"People can feel emotions. 但如果仔细想想
But if you think about it, 很明显机器人没有感情
it's pretty clear no robot could feel emotions. 没有任何纯物理对象是有感情的
No merely physical thing could feel emotions. 所以我们绝不是一个纯粹物理对象
So there must be more to us than a merely physical thing." 这将作为我们下次课讨论的论点
That's the argument we'll start with next time. 



 Chapter 3: 柏拉图对话录《斐多篇》介绍（一），灵魂存在与否的论证（二）


我们一直在讨论这样一个问题
We've been talking about the question, 用什么论证可以证明灵魂的存在
What arguments might be offered for the existence of a soul? 我们首先会想到的一类
And the family of arguments 则是那种
that we're considering initially are arguments 被称作推理的论证
that get known as inference 或叫做  最佳解释推理
or inferences to the best explanation. 其思路是
The thought is that 存在一些有关我们自身的亟待解释的事物
there's something about us that needs explaining. 但单从物理的角度  我们无法对其进行解释
We can't explain it in terms of, in purely physical terms. 所以我们需要借助他法
And so we need to appeal to, 我们需要假定灵魂存在
we need to posit, the existence of, a soul. 我们待会儿再回到这个论题上
Now, I'll come back to that sort of argument in just a minute, 现在我们暂且先把它放在一边
but let me bracket that for a moment 开始学习柏拉图
and say something about Plato. 从下周开始
Starting next week, 我们要学习柏拉图的对话  斐多篇
we're going to be looking at Plato's dialogue, the Phaedo. 尽管在讲到斐多篇时
And so although I'll be saying a great deal 我会向你们详尽介绍其中的内容
about the Phaedo once we turn to it, 但现在  我还是想先花一两分钟的时间
I want to just take a minute or two 做一个简短的引言
and say a couple of introductory remarks. 我不知道你们当中有多少人
I don't know how many of you 之前未曾读过柏拉图的作品
have not read any Plato before, 但是  还未拜读过柏拉图的同学们
but for those of you who haven't, 我敢肯定你们会喜欢上他的
I actually think you're in for a treat. 柏拉图是历史上最伟大的哲学家之一
Plato is not only one of the greatest philosophers in history, 并且  他使用对话体形式来阐述其观点
he wrote his philosophy in the form of dialogues. 即  以戏剧为表现方式
That is to say, plays, 其间各种人物悠闲地或坐或站  集聚一块儿
in which various characters sit around or stand around 探讨各种哲学观点
and argue about philosophical positions. 我们要学习的这篇对话  斐多篇
The particular dialogue that we're going to reading,the Phaedo, 就将场景设定在苏格拉底临死前的一幕
is set at the death scene of Socrates. 想必你们都知道
As I'm sure you know, 苏格拉底被人指控
Socrates was put on trial, 以教唆雅典青年的罪名  被判处死刑
condemned to death for corrupting the youth of Athens-- 也许  罪名还包括
and perhaps, among other things, 和青年们讨论哲学
for arguing philosophy with them. 狱卒把毒芹汁端给他
And he's given hemlock, poison, 他一饮而尽  然后生命就此终结
and he drinks it and he dies. 这是一个历史性的事件
Now, this is a historical event. 苏格拉底有一大群朋友和学生
Socrates had a circle of friends and disciples 和他讨论哲学
that he would argue philosophy with. 而柏拉图就是他的学生之一
One of his disciples was Plato. 柏拉图随后形成自己的思想
Plato then grew up 并写下了许多哲学著作
and wrote philosophical works. 柏拉图本人通常并不在自己的对话篇里出现
Plato does not typically appear in his own dialogues. 即使出现了  也仅仅是个次要的角色
Or, if he does, he's only there as a minor character. 实际上  如果我没记错的话
In fact, if I recall correctly, 柏拉图曾提到
Plato's mentioned as not 苏格拉底死时自己并不在场
being there on the day that Socrates dies. 那么  我们如何辨别
So, how do we know, 在戏剧中
if we've got this play, 谁代表柏拉图本人的立场呢
whose position is Plato's position? 答案是  苏格拉底
And the answer--the short answer--is, Socrates, 即剧中苏格拉底的角色诠释了
the character Socrates in the play, represents Plato, 戏剧作者自己的哲学观
the author of the play's, philosophical views. 如果这是在古代哲学的课堂上
Now, in fact, if this were a class in ancient philosophy, 我们可能要将讨论的内容延伸得更广一点
we'd have to complicate that picture, 因为柏拉图后期的哲学观点
because it's fairly clear that by late in Plato's career Plato has philosophical views 同他老师苏格拉底的观点迥然不同
that are very much unlike the views of his teacher, Socrates. 而且  柏拉图一直没有在对话篇中现身
And yet Plato continues to not appear in the dialogue. 而苏格拉底仍继续保持着主角的身份
Socrates continues to be sort of the hero. 所以  学者们一直在争论
And so scholars debate which of the views put forward 在对话篇里的苏格拉底提出的观点中
by Socrates in which ones of the dialogues represent views 哪些属于历史上那个真实的苏格拉底的
that belong to the actual historical figure Socrates, 哪些是戏剧中的苏格拉底的
and which of the views put forward by the character Socrates 哪些虽在对话篇里说是苏格拉底的观点
in which of the dialogues represent views 但却并不符合真实的苏格拉底的原意
that are actually not held by the historical Socrates, 即实际上是柏拉图
but were instead held by the historical Plato 假借苏格拉底之口来表明自己的观点
and were merely put in the mouth of the character Socrates. 学者们是如此鉴别的  柏拉图早期对话作品
Scholars distinguish between the early Platonic dialogues, 即  在所谓的苏格拉底的对话中
the so-called Socratic dialogues, 主角苏格拉底的观点
where the thought is, those are the views of Socrates, 与历史上那个真实的苏格拉底的思想吻合
the actual historical figure. 而就柏拉图的晚期对话作品而言
And then there's the late dialogues, 尽管苏格拉底也频频出场
where even though Socrates appears, 大多数学者认为  那些观点很可能
most scholars believe those are probably not the views 并不是真实的苏格拉底所持有的
that the historical Socrates actually believed. 对中期对话作品的鉴别  就比较困难
You have middle dialogues where you have to worry about 因为你无法明确观点与人物的对应关系
whose views are whose. 但是我们不用担心
But we're not going to worry. 这不是在古代哲学课课堂上
This is not a class in ancient philosophy. 所以  出于这门课程的目的
So for our purposes, 我们无需深究
we don't have to ask ourselves 苏格拉底在对话中的某个观点
when Socrates in the dialogue says something, 到底是属于那个真实的受死之人苏格拉底的
is this a view that the dead man Socrates actually would have held 还是属于已故之人柏拉图
or is this simply a view that the dead man Plato 通过作品中苏格拉底这个角色所表述的
put in the mouth of the character Socrates? 就我们这门课程的目的而言  这都无关紧要
For our purposes, it won't really matter. 我会把苏格拉底提出的
I'll take every view that 所有观点都当做是柏拉图的
Socrates puts forward as a view of Plato's, 尽管我会随意地
though I'll typically sort of run back 将两者交替着说
and forth sort of in a careless fashion. 我会说
I'll say, "柏拉图认为"或者"苏格拉底认为"
"Plato holds" Or "Socrates argues," 因为就这门课的目的而言两种说法是等效的
because for our purposes it's all the same. 但是  还有一个地方
But there's one other 我要提醒你们
complication that you've got to be warned about, 那就是  由于这些是对话作品
which is this. Because these are dialogues 且它们全都采用了哲学论证的形式
and they take the form of philosophical arguments, 即  人们先提出观点  然后
people put forward views and then, 在讨论的过程中
over the course of the discussion, 改变自己的关于事物想法
change their minds about things. 随即收回之前的话
And they take them back. 也许类似的情形
And maybe something similar 在苏格拉底身上也发生过
is going on when Socrates says something. 因为  毕竟柏拉图也没有说
Because, after all, this isn't Plato saying, 这就是我明确相信的观点
"Here's what I believe explicitly." 他只是在写一个关于哲学的戏剧
He's just writing a dramatic play about philosophy. 所以有时候我们会这样想
And so sometimes we'll find ourselves thinking, 看  这里有一个论证
"You know, there's an argument here 是由苏格拉底提出的
that Socrates is putting forward. 它也许不是一个很好的论证
But maybe it's not a very good argument." 但至少
And it will, at least, 它值得我们偶尔停下来  琢磨一下
be worth pausing periodically to ask ourselves, 也许柏拉图也意识到这不是一个好论证
maybe Plato realized it wasn't a very good argument. 通过了解那些由苏格拉底提出
We can often better understand the dialogues by seeing Socrates 但他自己也觉得不充分的观点
as putting forward certain positions 我们可以更好地理解这些对话作品
that he does not think are altogether adequate. 他会调整  修改那些观点
And he modifies them or revises them 或者以引入新观点
or introduces new positions 来解决先前他遇到的难题
to deal with some of the difficulties that he was setting himself to be open to earlier. 我之前说过  不要过多拘泥于细枝末节
As I say, don't worry about any of those details now, 但在阅读对话时应该谨记  细节很重要
but it's a point to keep in mind as you read the dialogues. 以上就是我对斐多篇做的简介
So that's all I really wanted to say by way of introduction. 考虑到下周的课程
You should start reading the Phaedo 你们应该提前开始阅读斐多篇了
for next week. 我们会在下周开始讨论斐多篇
We'll be talking about the Phaedo starting some time next week 外加下下周的一部分时间
and we'll continue the 或者全部时间  继续
discussion of the Phaedo for at least a bit of, 讨论斐多篇
maybe all of, the week after that. 对于柏拉图这块  我会做特别对待
In the case of Plato, I'm going to make an exception. 通常  我会提到我们的阅读材料
Normally, I will mention our readings, 但是我不会花过多的时间
but I won't spend a lot of time 来讨论细节问题
actually discussing them in detail. 这也就是为什么你们不得不
That's why you have to 把课后阅读当做上课的补充
think of the readings as complementing the lectures 或者把听课当做课后阅读的补充
or think of the lectures as complementing the readings. 这次不是向你们发些名著导读那么简单了
I'm not just giving the Cliff Notes, as it were, of the readings. 对于斐多篇
Nonetheless, in the case of the Phaedo, 我还会花更多的时间来说明诸如
I am going to spend more time actually saying, 我认为首要论证是这样的
"Here's what I think the first main argument is. 让我们从前提和结论着手
Let's try to reconstruct it in terms of 重新构建这个论证
its premises and its conclusions. 这是我的一些反驳观点
Here are some objections I raise. 接下来是柏拉图提出的另一个论证
Here is then the next argument that Plato offers. 我们试着研究一下前提条件
Let's try to get that up in premises." 即便如此  我也不会花时间大声朗读
Even there, I won't be spending time reading out loud 斐多篇的各大长篇
long passages from the Phaedo. 但在某种意义上
But, in some sense, 相对于其他阅读材料  我会对斐多篇作出
I'll be giving a closer commentary of the Phaedo 更为细致的解说
than I'll do for the other readings. 为了下周的课程  你们应该开始阅读了
So, still, what you should do is start reading it for next week. 斐多篇的主题
The topic of the Phaedo, 如前所说  被设定在苏格拉底受死当天
as I say, is set on Socrates' last day. 在对话的结尾处
At the end of the dialogue, 他饮下毒芹汁  走向死亡
he drinks the hemlock and he dies. 也许  一点也不足为奇的是
And perhaps unsurprisingly, 直到生命的最后一刻  他都在和朋友们
what he does with his friends up until that moment is, 探讨灵魂的不朽性
he argues about the immortality of the soul. 最令人惊叹的是  苏格拉底并不苦恼
Quite strikingly, Socrates is not upset. 他根本不担心自己即将死去
He's not worried about the fact that he's going to die. 反而以某种方式迎接死神的降临
He actually welcomes this in a certain way, 因为他坚信灵魂是不朽的
because he believes his soul is immortal. 所以  支持和反对
And so, in addition to philosophical arguments for and against 灵魂的存在与不朽的论证
the existence and immortality of the soul, 以一个感人至深的死亡场景告终
we end the dialogue with a quite moving death scene, 这简直就是西方文明史上
one of the great death scenes, 最伟大的死亡场景之一
if we could call it that, 如果我们可以这样说的话
of western civilization. 总之  如前所说  下周的安排就是这样
Anyway, as I say, that's all for next week. 现在让我们再回到这个问题上
So let's return now to the question, 我们怎样论证灵魂存在
"How might we argue for the existence of the soul?" 起初  上节课上
Initially, last time, 我们探讨了一类或者说是
we considered a set of or 一小类论证  这些论证的基本观点是
a subset of arguments that basically said, 我们肯定不仅仅是些物质实体
"Look, there's got to be more to us than just material objects. 人  不是机器
People can't just be machines, 因为机器不能推理
because machines can't reason. 机器不能思考
Machines can't think." 而我也说过
And I said, 这看上去并不是一个令人信服的论证
"That doesn't seem to be a compelling argument." 毕竟  会下国际象棋的电脑似乎是会推理的
After all, chess-playing computers, it seems, can reason. 它们对我的战术了然于胸
They have beliefs about what I'm likely to do next. 它们拥有极力实现自身目标的欲望
They have desires about the goals that they're trying to achieve. 它们推算怎样才能最彻底地打败我
They reason about how best to defeat me. 需要指出的
And it's worth pointing out that-- 上次课我并没有提到这一点
a point that I didn't make last time-- 需要指出的是  电脑
it's worth pointing out that, what the computers, 至少最棒的国际象棋电脑  并没有做什么
at least the best chess-playing computers don't do. 实际上  没有电脑真正会做这些事情
Indeed, no computer actually does this. 你可能认为  一台电脑
You might think that what a computer, 或一台下棋电脑所做的工作就是这样
what a chess-playing computer does is just this: 计算出所有可能的下法
it calculates every possible branch, 以及与之对应的各种可能的棋局
every possible game from here on out. 然后它再斟酌一下
And then it sort of works backwards. 恩  在这些情形下我能胜出
"Oh, these are the ones where I'll win." 所以只有当它能够预见到
And so it only makes the move 自己接下来20步得以制胜的棋路时
where it can sort of look ahead 20 moves, 它才会继续往下走
right, and see which branches have the computer winning. 但国际象棋的程序并不是这样工作的
That is not the way chess-playing programs work. 原因很简单
For the simple reason that 棋局的潜在变数相当之大
the number of possible chess games is so huge, 以至于计算机根本无法将其完全计算出来
that computers can't calculate it. 因为这需要它们数以千年的工作量
They'd be busy for thousands of years. 我们可能会这么做
We can do that sort of: 当你和你七岁大的侄子或侄女
When you play tic-tac-toe 下三子棋的时候
with your seven-year old nephew or niece, 你就会先预测  然后想
you just look ahead and work backwards. 要是我这样下
"Well, if I do that, 他就会那样下
he'll do that 如果他走了那一步  那他就赢了
and he'll do that and then he wins, 所以我不会走这一步 对吗
so I won't do that," right? 但是在下国际象棋时候我们不会那么做
But we can't do that with chess. 因为实在有太多盘棋了
There's just too many games. 那么  下棋程序
So how do chess-playing programs, 特别是最好的下棋程序
and particularly the best chess-playing programs, 是如何工作的呢
how do they work? Well, 它们的下棋方式同你们如出一辙
they play chess the same way you do. 它们会想  哪些棋子的威力更大
They have various ideas about which pieces are more powerful 需要重点庇护
and so they're more important to protect. 它们会想到
They've got various ideas 采用哪种策略  获胜几率更高
about which strategies tend to be successful. 以及这些策略会带来哪些风险
What sorts of dangers come along with them? 如果你是一名严谨的棋手
If you're a serious chess player, 你可能还会研究国际象棋史上最伟大的棋局
you might study some of the great games of chess history. 的确  当人们编写游戏程序时
And indeed, when they program these things, 会在这些程序中
the programmers will 一局接一局地
feed in game after game after game 输入历史上那些最伟大的棋局
of the great chess games in history. 然后  用这些知识武装好自己之后
And then armed with all of that, 你就能做到最好
you sort of do your best. 当你下输了一盘时
And when you lose a game, 你也许会在心里记下
you kind of make a mental note to yourself, 这次实在太糟糕了
"That really screwed me up. 下次再换个别的什么试试
Let me try something different next time." 你会尽量避免使用那些着数
And you avoid those sorts of moves. 下棋程序也是这样工作的
That's how chess-playing programs work as well. 跳转一下话题   我先来对此做一番评论
Jumping ahead, let me make a remark about this, 因为这和我们几分钟后
because this is going to be relevant for something 将要讨论的东西有关
I'll get to in a couple of minutes. 这意味着什么呢
What this means--what this, 其含义就是
the implication--is that 如果你正在玩一个不错的国际象棋程序
if you're playing a great chess-playing program, 要想推测出程序下一步的着数
it's not as though the way to tell 而对游戏程序进行全方位的研究
what it's going to do is 似乎并不是个有效的方法
to study its program and think it through. 这些程序的设计者
The people who design these programs, 很可能本身就棋艺高超
presumably fairly decent chess players themselves, 他们
the people who design these programs, 在玩这个程序游戏时
when they're playing the programs 并不会在心里想着
they're not thinking to themselves, 既然这个程序是我编制的
"Let's see. I programmed this computer so 所以  如果我把皇后移到这里
that when I move a queen forward to this space, 它就会出相
it should come out with a bishop." 这种想法根本无用
That's hopeless. 因为程序会不断依据过去
Because the program is constantly revising its strategies, 有效无效经验修改其策略
in light of what's worked and what hasn't worked in the past. 当程序员或其他任何人  玩这个程序时
When the programmers play these programs or indeed when anybody, 比如  一个优秀的棋手  在玩这些程序时
a good chess player, plays these programs, 战胜它们的最好办法就是  问问自己
the best way to try to beat them is simply ask yourself, 现在怎么走才最为明智
"What's the best move to make right now?" 推算计算机接下来最可能的动向才是制胜关键
The odds are the computer's going to make the best possible move. 将计算机视为一名象棋健将
Treat the computer as though it were just a great chess player. 事实上  最棒的象棋程序已经是老辣的棋手
And indeed, the best programs are great chess players. 尽管曾一度出现过
There was a period of time in which, 强劲的象棋程序
although there were decent, chess-playing programs 无法战胜顶级人类棋手的情形
couldn't beat the best chess-playing humans. 但是那种局面在几年前
That ended some years ago when 以象棋程序击败象棋大师而告终
the best programs began to beat grand masters. 而现在
And now it's in fact the case 最优秀的象棋程序可以称得上是所向披靡
that the best programs can beat pretty much anybody. 当前的国际象棋世界冠军
In the current world champion of chess, 弗拉基米尔•克拉姆尼克
I think Vladimir Kramnik, 就在今年12月被一个国际象棋程序击败
was defeated in December by a chess-playing program. 克拉姆尼克当时只是把它当作一个强劲的对手
So Kramnik's simply treating this as an awesome opponent. 其所作所为堪称最佳行棋之道
And that's the best way to deal with these things. 好了  我们还是把这些思考暂且先搁在一边
All right. So, bracket some of those thoughts for a moment. 稍后再对其继续讨论
We'll come back to them a little bit later 当我们开始探讨这样一个问题
when we start talking about the question, 机器有创造能力吗
"Could machines be creative?" 我先亮出我自己的观点
Tipping my hand, 显而易见
it seems pretty clear that 这个问题正好能够
that seems like the right 对国际象棋程序做出解释
thing to say about these chess-playing programs. 于是我们便产生了这样一个疑问
So we had the question, 机器能推理吗
"Could machines, could machines reason?" 虽然还未曾出现
And although we don't have machines 具有推理能力的机器
that can reason about a lot of subjects yet, 这一点相当明确
it seems pretty clear. 但仿佛  机器
It seems like the natural thing to suggest, machines 在某些领域具有推理能力是再自然不过了
can reason in at least some areas. 所以  人不是物理对象
And so it doesn't seem plausible 这一观点似乎并不能站稳脚跟
to suggest that we people must not be physical, 因为毕竟
merely physical, because after all, 我们人能推理而机器不能
we can reason and no machine can reason. 不  机器可以推理
No, machines could reason. 但这引发了灵魂辩护者的
But this prompts a different 一个迥然的进程
move on the part of the defender of souls. 也许论证不应该是
Perhaps the argument shouldn't be, 我们必须相信灵魂
"We have to believe in souls 因为所有的物理对象都不能推理
because no mere physical object could reason." 而应该是
Perhaps the argument should be, 我们不得不相信灵魂
"We have to believe in souls 因为所有物理对象  所有的机器都没有感觉
because no mere physical object, no machine could feel." 我们人拥有情感
You know, we have emotions. 会彼此相爱  会心生恐惧
We love. We're afraid. 会拥有烦恼  也会欢欣愉悦
We're worried. We'll get elated. 还会沮丧消沉
We get depressed. 所以  或许这个论证应该这样表达
So perhaps the argument should go 对  思考
"Yeah, yeah, thinking, 机器可以思考
that's the sort of thing a machine can do. 我们称之为思维机器
You know, we call them thinking machines. 但是感觉能力  却是任何机器都不具备的
But feeling, that's the sort of thing no machine could do. 没有任何纯粹的物理对象
No purely physical object 可以感觉到什么  可以有情感
could feel anything, could have emotions. 因为我们拥有感觉事物的能力
And so, since we clearly do feel things, 所以我们一定比物理对象高级
there must be more to us than a physical object." 现在  我想我们有理由认为
Now, I think it is plausible to suggest 与象棋计算机的例子不同
that unlike the case of chess-playing computers, 我们现在还没有能感觉事物的机器
we don't yet have machines that feel things. 但问题不是  我们有没有这样的机器
But the question isn't, "Do we?" 而是
The question is, 能否存在这样的机器  它可以感觉到某物
"Could there be a machine that could feel something, 可以有某种情感
could have an emotion of some sort?" 我们来谈一点科幻作品  想一想
So let's go a little science fictiony and think about 在科幻电影中
some of the robots that 出现过的一些机器人
have been shown in science fiction movies, 在科幻电影
some of the computer programs 以及科幻小说等其他科幻作品中
that have been shown in science fiction movies, 出现过的一些计算机程序
science fiction novels, or what have you. 我小时候
When I was a kid 有一部叫"迷失太空"的电视剧
there was a television show called Lost in Space. 我已经记不起
I'm afraid I've forgotten 剧中机器人的名字了
the name of the robot that was on that show. 但在这档电视节目中
But as it was a TV show and so sure enough, 每一集  都会戏剧性地发生一个新的危机
every single episode, some new dramatic danger would take place. 于是机器人就会开始全速前进   大声疾呼
And the robot would start whizzing and binging and shout out, "危险  罗宾逊指挥官"
"Danger, Commander Robinson!" "危险  威尔•罗宾逊"
"Danger, Will Robinson!" 就是这样  "危险  威尔•罗宾逊"
That was it. "Danger, Will Robinson!" 机器人好像一直都很担忧
It seemed as though the robot was worried. 再举个更近一点的例子
More recent example. 你们可能有人读过道格拉斯•亚当斯的书
A number of you have probably read some of Douglas Adams' books. 如  银河系漫游指南以及其续集
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and the sequels to that. 书中有一个叫马文的机器人
There's a robot in those books, Marvin, 我想可以用"消极"一词来概括他的特点
who's --depressed, I think is the simple word about it. 他很聪明
He sort of--He is very smart. 对于宇宙万物都有着自己的思考
He's thought about the universe, 他认为人生毫无意义  所以行事消极
thinks life is pointless and he acts depressed. 他把自己的想法告诉另一个机器人
He talks to another robot, 后者的情绪也变得低迷
depresses the other robot. 最后自杀了
The other robot commits suicide. 故事就讲到这里
All right. "消极"用在机器人身上  似乎再自然不过
Seems natural to ascribe depression to Marvin, the robot. 因为他的言行举止就是如此
That's how he behaves. 再来举个我最喜欢的例子
Or, my favorite example, 2001太空漫游(电影名)
the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey. 我先申明
Now, I've got to tell you, 没有看过这部电影的同学们
for those of you who have not seen this movie, 我要剧透了  好吧
I'm about to spoil it. All right? 所以请你们捂住耳朵
So you cover your ears. 太空漫游
In 2001:A Space Odyssey, 一些迹象表明
we get some kind of indication 另一个星球上有生命存在
that there's life on another planet. 一切都很神秘  所以我们
It's all very mysterious and we 派遣一艘飞船去调查星球上的印记
send off a spaceship to investigate the markings, 以及那些从其他星球传来的无线电信号
the radio signals from the other place. 这是一项非常重要的任务
This is a very important mission 因此  一个被命名为哈尔的计算机程序
and so there is a computer program named Hal 被安排协助飞船的运行
that helps run the ship 减轻飞船上
and takes a lot of the 人类宇航员的负担
burdens off of the part of the human astronauts who are on the ship. 哈尔有一个目标
Hal's got the goal-- 从理性和欲望等角度来说
in terms of reasoning and desires and so forth and so on-- 哈尔的目标就是确保该任务能成功完成
Hal's got the goal of making sure the mission is successful. 但哈尔看似有凭有据地认为
But Hal thinks to himself fairly plausibly, 人类只会威胁到任务的执行
humans really screw things up. 这是一项至关重要的任务
This is a very important mission. 除掉人类  以确保任务的顺利执行
Let's kill the humans to make sure they don't screw things up. 其中的一个宇航员
One of the astronauts, 发现了它的阴谋
discovering the plot, 试图阻止哈尔
attempts to stop Hal. 而他唯一
And proceeds to do the only 能使让哈尔不伤害到自己的举措
thing he can do to defend himself against Hal, 就是关闭该程序  基本上也就是杀死
which is shut down the program, basically killing-- 如果我们可以那样表达的话  杀死哈尔
if we can talk that way--killing Hal. 与此同时  一切都在进行中
Meanwhile, as all this is going on, 哈尔和那个叫戴夫的人类宇航员交谈
Hal and Dave, the human astronaut, are talking to each other. 哈尔最终意识到将要发生什么事情了
Hal realizes what's going on. 它试图阻止戴夫  这一点完全可以理解
Hal tries to stop Dave, understandably enough. 当戴夫开始关闭它的电路时  哈尔说
And Hal says, as Dave begins to shut down Hal's circuits, 我害怕  我害怕  戴夫
"I'm afraid. I'm afraid, Dave." 他害怕什么
What's he afraid of? 他害怕死亡
He's afraid of dying. 赋予哈尔恐惧感  这似乎也是自然而然
It seems perfectly natural to ascribe fear to Hal. 哈尔准确地表现出你所期望他
Hal is behaving in exactly the way you would expect him to behave, 或称为它  理应表现的行为方式
or it to behave, 如果它确实感到恐惧的话
if it felt fear. 它有理由恐惧
It's got reason to be afraid. 它表现得恰如其分
It's behaving appropriately. 它告诉我们它很害怕
It's telling us that it's afraid. 于是自然而然  我们就会说哈尔感到害怕
It seems natural to say Hal's afraid. 现在  你可以继续补充这方面的例子
Now, you could continue to sort of fill in examples like this. 正如我所说  的确
As I say, of course, 这些都只是科幻作品而已
they're all science fiction, 但我们仍然可以从中有所领悟
but the fact that we can grasp-- 我们并不会直接走掉  说
and it's not as though we go running away saying, 哦  不  这实在是太不可思议了  对吗
"Oh no! This was outrageous," Right? 计算机会说  我害怕
"It makes no sense to 这简直说不通
think a computer could have said, I'm afraid. 它会有试图杀死要将程序关闭的人等其他举动
"It makes no sense to think that it could try to kill the people 这些完全说不通
who are trying to shut it down and so forth." 以上的想法在我看来  是一种偏见
That seems to me to be prejudice, 正如我上次所说
as I said last time. 这边人们可以自然而然地说
The natural inclination here is to say, 这些计算机程序  这些机器人能感受情感
"These computer programs, these robots are feeling emotion." 但那边却没有理由相信
But there's no particular reason to think 电路之外有其他什么东西在运转
there's anything going on there than the circuits. 它们只是些物理对象
They're just physical objects, 只是些机器上的程序罢了
programs on machines. 如果这是正确的  如果这种说法正确
If that's right, if that's the right thing to say, 那么  我们不得不说
then what we have to say is, 我们不需要诉诸灵魂来
"We don't need to appeal to souls in order to 解释情感和感觉
explain emotions and feelings. 物理对象可以有
Physical objects could have, 纯粹的物理对象可以有
mere physical objects could have, 情感和感觉
emotions and feelings. 所以  我们没有理由假定灵魂存在
So we have no reason to posit the existence of a soul." 现在  我认为二元论者对这一答复的
Now, I think the best response on the part of the dualist to 最好回应  就是区分感受的两方面
this reply is to distinguish two aspects of feelings, 情绪的两个方面
two aspects of emotions. 比方说  感觉恐惧的行为方面
There's the behavioral aspect of feeling fear, let's say. 行为方面是
The behavioral aspect is 当你意识到环境中的某种事物
when you're aware in the environment of something 对你构成危险  会伤害或者摧毁你
that poses a danger to you, that will harm you or destroy you, 或在这个计算机程序的例子中  关掉你
or in the case of a computer program, turn you off, 于是  你采取各种
then you take various kinds of behaviors 反击行动  以解除危险
in opposition to that to try to disarm the danger, 抵消其负面影响
to try to neutralize it. 信念  目标  对策  规划
This is just a matter of beliefs, goals, responses, planning, 诸如此类
the sort of thing that we 象棋计算机已经能够做到
already saw the chess-playing computer can do, 这些情感的行为方面
that behavioral side of emotion. 认为机器人可以做到这一点
It seems pretty plausible 似乎再自然不过
to think robots could do that. 物理对象可以做到这一点
Physical objects could do that. 但是  这个反驳的关键点在于
But, and here's the crucial point of this objection, 情绪和感受还存在另一面
there's another side or another aspect to emotions and feelings. 感觉的知觉
It's the sensation of what it's feeling like-- 这就是为什么我们最终还是称之为感受
that's why we call them feelings after all-- 即  内心的感觉
what it's feeling like on the inside,as it were, 与所有这些行为层面的东西同时发生
while all this behavioral stuff's going on. 当我害怕时
When I'm afraid, 我会产生某种
I have this certain sort of 湿冷的感觉  又或者  我的心脏猛跳
clammy feeling or my heart's going poundingly. 血流加速
Your blood is racing. 当你害怕时
When you're afraid, 你会有胃部下沉的感觉
you've got this sinking feeling in the stomach. 当你沮丧时
When you're depressed, 会有那些我们可以称之为体验的感觉
there are these, well, we could call them experiences, 虽然"体验"一词也比较含糊
though the word "experience" is also somewhat ambiguous. 所以  我们暂且这么称呼它
So--we'll use it for the moment-- 每种情绪到来  都会产生体验
there's an experience that goes along with each emotion. 当你害怕时  就会产生恐惧的体验
There's what it feels like to you when you're afraid. 当你担心时  就会产生烦恼的体验
What it feels like to you when you're worried 或是沮丧  或是愉悦  或是坠入爱河
or depressed or joyful or in love. 这样一个在我看来极具影响的想法
And the thought, and I think this is a pretty powerful thought, 就是  即便机器人表现出行为层面
is that even if the robots are behaving behaviorally, 即使它们已经获得情绪的行为面
they've got the behavior side of the emotions down, 但是它们并没有感受面
they don't have the feeling side at all. 当你开始萌生这些想法时
Now, once you start thinking these thoughts, 你会发现  不止情绪如此
there's no need to restrict yourself to emotions. 各种各样的缺失
The missing stuff,the missing thing is there 皆是如此  在以如此熟悉的单调套路进行着
in all sorts of familiar humdrum ways as well. 比如说  我现在正盯着观众席上的椅子
So right now I'm looking at the chairs in the auditorium. 它们是蓝色的
They're some kind of shade of blue. 仔细思考  再看看
Think about--Look at some places 教室里其他地方  比如窗帘是红色的
in the room where the curtains with their red. 想一想  看见红色有什么感觉
Think about what it's like to see red, 对红色的知觉是什么样的
the sensation of seeing red. 现在  我们来辨别一下
Now again, we've got to distinguish between 被我称为看见红色的行为方面
what I'll continue to call the behavioral side of seeing red 和看见红色的体验方面
and the experiential side of seeing red. 我们很容易就能想到
It's easy enough for us to 制造可以分辨红色和蓝色的机器就能达到目的
build a machine that can tell red from blue. 只要能让它检验出
It just checks and sees 物体反射的光的频率
what kind of light frequencies are bouncing off the object. 我们就能制造一台
So we can build a machine 可以分辨红球和蓝球的机器
that could sort red balls from blue balls. 我儿子的一个玩具机器人就有这种功能
My son has a little robot that can do that. 但是  我们可以想想
Still, when you think to yourself, 机器的内在是什么样的
what's the--what's going on inside the machine? 当机器以电子眼
What does it feel like to be the machine while it's looking at-- 对着那个红色的球  它会有什么样的感觉
while it's got its little light sensors pointed at--the red ball? 它有没有看见红色的知觉呢
Does it have the sensation of seeing red? 我想你们会说
What I suppose you want to say, 当然我也想这么说
certainly what I want to say is, 不  它根本没有那种知觉
"No, no, it doesn't have that sensation at all." 它只是根据光频来分辨颜色而已
It's sorting things based on the light frequencies, 并没有看见红色的体验
but it doesn't have the experience of seeing red. 我要表达的意思  可能非常晦涩
What we're trying to get at here is--it can be very elusive, 但我相信你们大多数对它并不陌生
but I imagine most of you are familiar with it. 有时你会就一些问题问自己
It's the sort of thing you wonder about when you ask yourself, 如果某人天生失明
"If somebody was born blind, 他是否可能知道看见颜色是什么感觉
could he possibly know what it's like to see color?" 他可能是个科学家
He might be a scientist 通晓光的原理
and know all sorts of things about how light works. 知道你用了多少多少频率的光
You use such and such frequencies, 是哪些物体  然后你递给他一个苹果
and which objects, and you hand him an apple 他会说
and he'll say, 哦  这是个很红的苹果吧  是这样吗
"Oh, it must be very red," Right? 他可能会用一个光检测器对准苹果
Maybe he points his little light detector at it 仪器显示计量结果
and it reads out. 数据表明  这光是多少多少频率的
It says, "This is such and such a frequency." 然后他会说出  噢  这苹果超红耶
And he says, "Oh, this is a very red apple, 比西红柿还要红  诸如此类的话
much redder than that tomato" Or whatever. 就算如此
But for all that, 我们还是认为
we've got the notion, 他不但看不见红色
not only is he not seeing red, 他甚至无法想象看见红色是什么感觉
he can't even imagine what it's like to see red, 因为他从来没有过类似的体验
never having had these experiences. 一旦明白了这一点  我们就会发现
And once you start to see this, we realize, 生活中处处都是这种体验
of course, our life is filled with this aspect. 事物的颜色
Things have colors. 事物的声音
Things have sounds. 事物的气味
Things have smells. 体验的定性方面
There is the qualitative aspect of experience. 我之前就提到过
And the point that I started with earlier, 关于情感内在方面的观点
about the internal aspect of emotions, 情感不仅是外在的  也是内在的
is it's not just out there, but inside as well. 我们能感受到特定的内在感觉
We have certain kinds of sensations inside our body, 典型的如恐惧  愉悦  沮丧  等等
the characteristic sensation of fear or joy or depression. 好了
All right. 所以一个可能的回答是这样的
So the suggestion then might be this. 物理对象无法感受到
What no physical object can get right, 对事物的定性体验是什么样的
because no physical object can get at all, 因为它们根本无法去感受
is the qualitative aspect of experience. 这才是我们自问时想要抓住的方面
That's the aspect that we're after when we ask ourselves, 看见红色是什么样的感觉
"What's it like to see red? 闻咖啡和尝菠萝又是怎么样的感觉
What's it like to smell coffee or to taste pineapple?" 哲学家们
Now, it's pretty--Philosophers 有时候把这些称作  感受性
sometimes call these things qualia, 因为他们认为  事物存在定性方面的概念
because of the notion of the qualitative aspects of things. 我们的体验包括定性的特性
Our experiences have qualitative properties. 所以可能有人会说
And the suggestion then might be, 没有哪个物理对象
no physical object, 没有任何机器能够拥有定性的体验
no mere machine could possibly have qualitative experience. 但是我们有  所以我们不仅仅是物理对象
But we've got it, so we're no mere physical object. 我们不是机器
We're no mere machine. 好了
All right. 以上就是反方的观点
Now, that's the objection. 这是个很好的反驳
It's a pretty good objection. 接下来的问题是
And then the question is, 物理主义者能如何回应
"What can the physicalist say in response?" 物理主义者们现在
Now, the best possible 能做出的最好的回答就是
response would be for the physicalist to say, 从这个意义上去理解  就能造出一台
"Here's how to build a 具有意识的机器
machine that can be conscious in this sense. 即  一台可以有定性体验的机器
That is, have a qualitative experience. 应该这么造
Here's how to do it. 然后  如何如何
Here's how to-- 正如我们可以从唯物主义
Just like we can explain in materialist, 物理主义的角度解释如何得到欲望
physicalist terms how to get desires 信念  以及行为层面的东西
and beliefs and the behavioral stuff down, 我们也可以解释如何得到感觉
here's how to get the feeling, 定性方面的感觉
qualitative aspect of things down, too." 物理主义者要是能够给出
It would be best if the 这样的解释  那再好不过了
physicalist could give us that kind of story. 我认为  事实上
I think the truth of the matter has to be-- 目前的答案就是
I think the answer right now is, 我们还没法做出那种解释
we don't know how to give that story. 意识
Consciousness, 如果我们所说的意识
if what we mean by consciousness 就是指我们心理活动定性的方面
is this qualitative aspect of our mental life, 那么意识还是一个很大的谜团
consciousness remains a pretty big mystery. 我们不知道如何从物理主义角度去解释
We don't know how to explain it in physicalist terms. 正因如此
And it's because of that 我认为我们不应该轻视二元论者
that I think we shouldn't be dismissive of the dualist 当他们说
when the dualist says, 我们只有相信灵魂才能解释这些
"We've got to believe in souls in order to explain it." 我们不应该对此不以为然
We shouldn't be dismissive, 但也并不是说我们就应该对之深信不疑
but that's not to say that I think we should be convinced. 因为尚不知晓
Because it's one thing to say we don't yet know 如何从物理的角度去解释意识是一码事
how to explain consciousness in physical terms. 而永远不能
It's another thing to say we won't ever be able to 从物理的角度去解释意识是另一码事
explain consciousness in physical terms. 如果我们属于后者  抱歉
If we had the latter--excuse me-- 如果我们大胆放言
If we had the bold claim that 因为没有物体能看见红色  尝到蜂蜜的味道
no physical object could see red, taste honey, 而我们人类能做到  所以我们由此得出结论
then we'd have to conclude since we can do all that, 我们不是物体  或不仅仅是物体
we're not a physical object or not merely a physical object. 但我认为现在就那样说还为时尚早
But I don't think we're yet in a position to say that. 一个简单的事实就是
I think the simple fact of the matter is 我们对于意识了解甚少
we don't know enough about consciousness yet 还不知道是否能使用物理的方式对其进行解释
to know whether or not it can be explained in physical terms. 每当我想到这种情境时
When I think about this situation, 总会联想到一个类比
an analogy always occurs to me. 想象一下  我们正处在
Imagine that we're somewhere in, 比如  在14世纪人们试图去理解生命
let's say, the fourteenth century trying to understand life, 理解植物的生命
the life of plants. 一株植物是一个有生命力的实体
A plant is a living thing. 我们问自己
And we ask ourselves, 能否
"Could it possibly be that 从物质的角度来解释生命呢
life could be explained in material terms?" 这种想法简直是匪夷所思
It's got to seem very mysterious to us. 怎么可能呢
How could it be? 当我们回想14世纪时期的
When we think of the kinds of examples of material machines 各种机器
that we've got available to us in the fourteenth century, 我试着想象
I try to imagine 一个生活在14世纪的人
what would somebody in the fourteenth century 他  或她
think to himself or herself 在面对一株植物可能
when he entertains the possibility 只不过是一台机器的观点时会怎么想
that a plant might just be a machine? 然后  我们脑海里就会浮现
And then, I have this little image of 某种由齿轮构成的植物  对吧
some plant made out of gears, right? 齿轮开始转动
And the gears begin turning 随即花蕾绽放  哒  哒  哒  哒
and the bud opens, dot, dot, dot, dot. 于是就有人说
And the person's just going to say, 上帝  那不可能是个活物
"My god! That wouldn't be alive!" 所以很明显  机器不可能是具有生命力
So it's pretty obvious that no machine could be alive. 物质实体都不具有生命力
No material object could be alive. 要解释生命
In order to explain life, 我们必须诉诸原子以外的其他东西
we have to appeal to something more than just atoms. 他们那时还不知道原子呢
They didn't have atoms, 仅仅略高于物质的层面
but more than just matter. 还需要借助某些
Life requires something 非物质的  高于并超于物质的东西
immaterial above and beyond matter 来对生命进行解释
to explain it. 那可能就是能被14世纪的人们
That would have been an understandable position 所理解的解释
to come to in the fourteenth century, 但它有可能是错的
but it would have been wrong. 在那个年代
We didn't have a clue back 我们还不知道如何从物质的角度去解释生命
then how to explain life in material terms. 但那并不表示我们永远做不到
But that didn't mean it couldn't be done. 我倾向于认为这种规律同样
I'm inclined to think the same thing 适用于解释意识的现阶段
is true right now for us and consciousness. 肯定存在某些理论可以帮助我们解释意识
I know there are theories out there. 但我认为
But my best take is 我们现在所处的境地  跟14世纪差不多
we're pretty much like in the fourteenth century. 毫无头绪
We don't really have a clue yet, 或者说  无从下手
or not much of a clue, 你如何在这种情形下开个头
as to how you could even so much as begin to-- 我们不只是不知道细节如何
it's not that merely that we don't have the details worked out. 对于如何从物理角度解释意识
We don't even have the picture in broad strokes 我们甚至连笼统的粗线条轮廓
as far as consciousness is concerned, 都尚未建立起来
of how it could be done in physical terms. 但现阶段无法预见其可能
But not seeing how it's possible 并不代表永远不可能
is not the same thing as seeing that it's impossible. 如果是二元论者  他们则会走过来说
If the dualist comes and says, 你没觉得吗  一个纯粹的物理对象
"Can't you just see that it's not remotely possible, 能够拥有体验和感受性的可能性
it's not conceivably possible, 简直微乎其微  就连想想都觉得难以置信
for a purely physical object to have experiences, to have qualia?" 但我想说的是
What I want to say is, 不  我不认为那是不可能的
"No, I don't see that it's impossible. 我承认  我不知道如何去解释
I admit I don't see how to do it, 但我不认为那是不可能的
but I don't see that it's impossible." 所以我没觉得我一定要接受灵魂存在的假设
So I don't feel forced to posit the existence of a soul. 当然了  笃信灵魂的人会跑来说
Of course, the fan of the soul could come back and say, 这不公平
"But that's not fair. 问题不是
The question isn't, 这种解释可不可能
is this explanation impossible?' 问题是
The question is just, 谁的解释更合理
who's got the better explanation?' 而你们这群人根本就没能做出任何解释
You guys can't offer any kind of explanation at all, yet. 我能做出解释
I can offer an explanation. 意识是怎么一回事
How is consciousness possible? 我们都有灵魂
We have souls. 灵魂和一般物体大不相同
Souls are really very different from physical objects 所以它们能产生意识
and so they can be conscious." 但是对于这一点
But at this point, 我认为最为关键的就是记住
I think it's crucial to remember the point 问题不仅在于
that it's not just the question, 谁能解释
"Who's got an explanation?" 还在于  谁的解释更合理
but, "Who's got the better explanation?" 在我们承认
And before we say that 灵魂观点更合理之前
the soul view's got the better explanation, 我们必须问问自己
we have to ask ourselves, 这个观点解释得到底如何
just how much of an explanation is it to say, 我可以解释意识
"Oh I can explain consciousness. 意识并非源自肉体
Consciousness is housed not in the body, 它源自灵魂
but in the soul." 好了  那灵魂到底是怎么产生意识的呢
Okay. "How exactly is it that a soul can be conscious?" 要是我们这么问  灵魂学说者就会说
We ask. And then the soul theorist says, 那个  嗯  呃  啊  它就是能产生
"Well, uhm.. er.. ah.. it just can." 这算不上是真正的解释
That's not really much of an explanation. 我觉得就算我是一个二元论者
I don't feel I've got any sort 我也还是不懂这番对于意识的解释
of account going here as to how consciousness works, even if I become a dualist. 如果二元论者试图
If the dualist were to start 为我们提供一个详尽的意识理论学说
offering us some elaborate theory of consciousness, 你看  这是灵魂的什么什么结构
"Well, there's these sorts of soul structures, 那是灵魂的什么什么结构
and those sorts of soul structures, 这些产生了这种感觉
and these create these sensations 那些产生了那种感觉
and those create those sensations. 这里还有一套理论
And here's a theory," 好吧  这样的话我会认真考虑这种解释
well, then, I'll begin to take it seriously as an explanation. 但如果所有的灵魂理论家只是一味地说
But if all the soul theorist is just saying is 不不不  你们解释不了  但是我能
"Nah, nah. You guys can't explain it and I can, 因为我就觉得它是解释
because I say this is an explanation." 那我只想说
Then, I find myself wanting to say, 这种言论毫无意义  说了等于白说
"That's not really any better. That's no improvement at all." 有人提问题
There is a question or a comment. 这样很好
Good. 其问题是
So the question was-- 首先  在这个问题之前他指责
First, it was the accusation before the question, 我在施行双重标准
that I'm holding a sort of double standard. 说我在辩护
I'm defending, 当我给物理主义者辩护时我会说
I'm defending the physicalist by saying, 别怪我们  我们还不知道怎么解释呢
"Don't blame us. We don't know how to explain it yet." 而又为什么不允许灵魂理论说
Why aren't I allowing the soul theory to say, 别责怪我们  我们只是还不知道怎么去解释
"Don't blame us. We don't know how to explain it yet." 这个问题问得好  而我的答案是
Good question. And my answer is-- 有时我觉得这是个平局
And sometimes I think this one's a tie. 我认为灵魂理论者没能解释
I think the soul theorist doesn't have an explanation. 物理理论者也没能解释
The physical theorist doesn't have an explanation. 就我所见
As far as I can see, 目前还没有人能对
right now nobody's got a 意识的原理做出合理解释
good explanation about how consciousness works. 现在这仍是个未解之谜
It's a bit of a mystery right now. 所以我不是说  我希望自己没这么做
So I don't mean--I hope I haven't been doing this. 无关什么双重标准
It's not so much a double standard is needed; 双方旗鼓相当
it's a tie. 不过请注意  如果是平局
But notice if it's a tie, 这还是没有给出我们想要的答案
that doesn't give us what we were looking for. 毕竟  我们所寻求的是
What we were looking for, 相信灵魂存在的理由
after all, was some reason to believe in souls. 如果灵魂理论者最多只能说
And if the best the soul theorist can say is, 我不能解释  你也不能
"I can't explain it and neither can you," 这不是一个相信灵魂存在的理由
that's not a reason to believe this side. 我们已经相信肉体的存在
We already believe there are bodies. 我们已经知道肉体可以做一些相当神奇的事情
We already know bodies can do some pretty amazing things. 我们的问题是
The question we're asking is, 有没有一个很好的理由
"Is there a good reason 让我们往已写有东西的清单上再添上几笔
to add to our list of things there are? 有没有很好的理由再加上
Is there a good reason to add 灵魂之类的非物质实体
the soul, something immaterial?" 如果灵魂主义者最为充分的理由是
And if the best that the soul theorist has is, 或许我们需要灵魂来解释些
"Maybe we need this to explain something 我认为你们不能解释的东西
that I don't see how you guys can explain, 或许这样能有些帮助
maybe this would help, 尽管我也不清楚怎样用灵魂解释
though I can't quite see how either," 这就不是一个很有说服力的论证
that's not a very compelling argument. 所以我倾向于
So what I'm inclined to 认为  对于这个特殊的困境
think with regard to this particular strand 或说成是  对这个特定版本的
or this particular version 论证  还无法下定论
of the argument is, the jury's still out. 或许最终  在我们倾尽全力之后
Maybe at the end of the day we'll give it our best. 我们会认定  无法从物理的角度来解释意识
We'll decide you can't explain consciousness in physical terms. 我们会找到
We'll begin to work out 其他的某种非物质理论
some sort of alternative immaterial theory. 或许最终
Maybe at the end of the day 我们会认定我们需要相信灵魂
we will decide we need to believe in souls. 但此时此刻
But right now, 我不认为有证据支持这种灵魂存在的结论
I don't think the evidence supports that conclusion. 当然  还会有一些其他的可能
Still, there's other possibilities. 比如  创造力
Consider creativity. 这是某个论证
Here's another version of an argument 从推理发展为最佳解释的另一种说法
that goes from inference to the best explanation. 创造力
Creativity. 这种论证的观点是  人们具有创造力
It says, "People can be creative." 我们谱写乐章
We write new pieces of music. 我们创作诗歌
We write poems. 我们用数学去证明从未被证明过的事物
We prove things in mathematics that have never been proven before 我们探寻新的方法去证明那些定理
or we find new ways to prove these theorems 或其他诸如此类  总之  我们具有创造力
or what have you and we can be creative. 单纯的机器是没有创造力的
No mere machine can be creative. 所以我们肯定不只是单纯的机器
So we must be something more than a mere machine. 那么  问题就转到
Well, then, the question is going to be, 是否存在某种情形
"Could it be a case that there 使得物理对象在其中也具有创造力
could be a physical object that's creative?" 我倾向于认为
And I'm inclined to think, 有  实际上  当我在谈会下象棋计算机时
"Yes." In fact, I already suggested as much 我已经暗示过很多次了
when I talked about the chess-playing computers. 国际象棋程序会思考如何下子
The chess-playing computer programs think of moves, 会想出没有人曾想到的策略
think of strategies no one's thought of before. 从最直接最自然的意义上理解
In the most straightforward natural meaning of the term, 我们不得不说  我想
we have to say--I think the program 那个打败世界冠军的计算机程序叫深弗里茨
that beat the world champion was called Deep Fritz. 当深弗里茨打败克拉姆尼克时
So when Deep Fritz beat Kramnik, 它是具有创造力的
it was being creative. 它走出了
It made a move 克拉姆尼克没想到
that Kramnik didn't think of 或许是从没有人想到的一步棋
and perhaps nobody had. 这也许是象棋史上前所未有的一步棋
Perhaps no chess game before had had this move. 除了下棋  电脑还可以做许多事情
Computers can do other sorts of things of this sort. 有些程序可以证明数学定理
There are mathematical theorem-proving programs. 如今  这些程序都可以证明一些
Now, some of these things can prove things 令我头大的数学题了
that are mathematically way over my head. 不过我们还是说些简单的  比如勾股定理
But let's take something simple like the Pythagorean Theorem, 我们中学里都学过的
which we all learned in high school. 我们都学习过
And we learned how to prove 欧几里得几何中对勾股定理的证明方法
the Pythagorean Theorem in Euclidean geometry, 从繁杂的欧氏几何的公理开始
starting with the various axioms in Euclidean geometry, 邦  邦邦  邦邦  邦邦
ba, ba-ba, ba-ba, ba-ba, ba bum. 这就证明了勾股定理
This proves Pythagorean Theorem. 其实有很多种证明勾股定理的方法
And it turns out there's a variety of proofs of the Pythagorean Theorem. 而实际上  电脑程序的证明方式
And, in fact, a computer program has come up with a proof that, 据目前所知
as far as was known, 是前人们从未曾提出过的
nobody in the world had ever come up with before. 那么  除了偏见
Well, other than prejudice, 还有什么能阻止我们说程序具有创造力呢
what would stop us from saying the program was being creative? 不止是下棋或数学这类跟数理有关的事
Not just in sort of mathematical things like chess or math, 你知道  有些程序甚至能创作音乐
there are, as you know, programs that can write music. 我不是说那种随机抛出各类音符的创作
And I don't just mean throw out some random assortment of notes. 这些程序可以生成
Programs that can produce music that have-- 我们认可的音乐
that we recognize as music, 这些音乐具有旋律形态和递进的主题
that have melodic structure and develop themes, 有转为和音的章节
resolve, music 而且从未有人听到过这些音乐
that nobody's heard before. 为什么不能说机器有创造力
Why not say the machine is creative? 除了偏见  还有什么
What, other than prejudice, 能阻止我们这么说
would stop us from saying that? 所以如果这个论证要说
So if the argument's going to be, 我们必须假定灵魂的存在
"We need to posit the existence 才能解释创造力
of a soul in order to explain creativity," 再一次  这看起来是错误的
Again, that just seems wrong. 又有人提问题
Well, there's a--question, comment? 很好
Good. 这个问题是
The question was, 当我在这里讨论创造力的时候
"When I talk about creativity here, 我是不是想引入那些"当我们有创造力时
am I trying to build in some appeal to the feeling that we may have 我们可能会有什么样的感受"的观点
when we're being creative?" 答案是
And the answer is, 不是
"No." 我所想的一切  如你所知
All I had in mind, as you know, 只是  在谈论到创造力这个问题时
is just--in talking about the creativity issue-- 我只是在脑海中酝酿些新的东西
I just have in mind producing something new, 酝酿一些从来没出现的东西
producing something that hasn't been around before. 而且特别要指出的是
And most particularly, 酝酿些
producing something that 你们的程序员还没想到的东西
your programmers didn't already have in mind. 记住  那些设计象棋程序的人
Remember, it's not as though the people 貌似也下不过他们的象棋程序
who designed the chess-playing programs can beat it. 象棋程序的走法
The chess-playing program 是这些程序员也未曾想到过的
makes moves these guys haven't thought of. 好了
All right. 这些关于创造力的观点或许行不通
The creativity argument may not work, 但是有些东西
but there's something 随之而来
that sort of immediately comes on its heels. 即使我们能编写一个程序
Even if we could build a program, 即使我们已经编写出具有创造力的程序
even if we had built programs that can be creative, 它们可以做一些从来没有人想到过的事情
that can do things that nobody's thought of before, 程序所做的只不过是执行程序  对吗
all the program is doing is following its program, right? 那只不过是一系列一行行的代码
It's just a series of lines of code. 那些机器人  或叫做计算机等等
And the robot or the computer or what have you 只是自动地
is just automatically, 机械地执行程序的命令代码
mechanically following the code commands of the program. 我们或许说
We might say, 即使我们非常聪明  可以编制些
even if we are smart enough to build programs that can, 能够机械地执行指令的程序
by mechanistically following the program, 做一些我们从来没想到的事情
do things we've never thought of. 即便如此  电脑所能做的
Still all the computer can do, 机器人所能做的
all the robot can do 只是自动地必然地机械地执行程序
is automatically, necessarily, mechanically follow the program. 它没有自由意志
It doesn't have free will. 但我们有自由意志
But we have free will. 所以  这里有了一个新论证证明灵魂存在
So, here's a new argument for the existence of the soul. 人有自由意志
People have free will. 没有哪个机械的物体
No merely mechanical object, 也没有哪个机器人  哪个电脑能有自由意志
no robot, no computer could have free will. 但由于我们拥有自由意志
But since we've got free will, 我们必定不只是纯粹的物理对象
we must be something more than a merely physical object. 必定存在某些额外的东西
There must be something extra, 某些非物质  比如灵魂
something immaterial about us, the soul. 或许我们需要相信灵魂的理由就是
So maybe that's why we need to believe in souls 为了便于解释自由意志
in order to explain free will. 这个话题  自由意志  是一个非常非常
Now, the subject, free will, is a very, very-- 关于意识的话题非常复杂
The subject of consciousness is a very complicated. 一个人可能得花上整整一个学期
One could have an entire semester 全身心地思考
devoted to thinking about 关于意识的哲学问题
the philosophical problem of consciousness. 当然  这也的确是如此
And indeed, as it happens, 我们系在这一学期
in our department this very semester 就有这么一个班
there is such a class devoted, 花了整整一个学期  来讨论意识问题
all semester, to the topic of consciousness. 我们系同样还开设有一门课
One could similarly have a 专门讨论自由意志问题
course devoted to the problem of free will. 我要花两分钟的时间在这上面
I'm going to spend all of two minutes on it. 所以我绝不是在暗示
So it's by no means do I mean to suggest, 关于这个话题  你需要知道的就这么多
"Oh, here's everything you need to know about the subject." 我只是想尽可能地
I simply want to point out enough 把这个问题提出来  以帮助你们认识到
about the problem to help you see 为什么我不认同自由意志是灵魂的制胜利器
why I don't think free will is a slam-dunk for the soul. 那这个论证究竟是怎样的呢
So what's the argument? 它的想法大概是这样
Well, the thought seems to be something like this. 一  我们有自由意志
One, we have free will. 二  我想解释一下这一点
Two--let me say something about this. 电脑仅仅只是在执行程序
What is it about the thought that the computer 这个观点到底是什么样的
is just following a program? 对于这个观点  我认为
Well, the thought, I suppose is, 以哲学的语言可以表达为
in philosopher's jargon, 电脑是个决定论的系统
that the computer is a deterministic system. 它服从物理定律
It follows the laws of physics 而物理定律是决定性的
and the laws of physics are deterministic. 如果你站在这个角度
If you're in this state, 你必定会考虑
you will necessarily, 在物理定律和电脑编程原理
given the laws of physics and the way the computer's programmed 如何构造的等等确定的情况下
and built and so forth, 这些电线通或断
these wires will turn on, turn off, 这些回路通或断
these circuits will turn on, turn off, 嘣  突然你就处在那个位置上
boom, suddenly you'll be in that state. 存在那样的某些定律
There are certain laws such that, 假定电脑处在这种状态
given that the computer's in this state, 它一定会变为那种状态
it must necessarily move in that state. 当你认为因和果
When you've got a view about cause 是以这种方式互相作用的
and effect that works this way-- 对于所发生的一切
for everything that happens, 总有些事先发生
there's some earlier thing 然后它们导致这些事发生
that caused it to happen 于是一旦给定了前因
such that given that earlier cause, 这些后果必定会接着发生
the event had to follow-- 这是一个决定论的图景
that's a deterministic picture. 那个想法  当然
And the thought, of course, 是说机器人和电脑只是一种决定论的系统
is that the robot or the computer is a deterministic system 而如果你是个决定论系统的话
and you can't have free will 就不可能有自由意志
if you're a deterministic system. 所以  一  我们有自由意志
So number one, we have free will. 二  任何服从决定论的实体都没有自由意志
Two, nothing subject to determinism has free will. 综合一和二
Put one and two together. 得到结论  如果任何遵守决定论的实体
It follows, if nothing subject to determinism 都没有自由意志
has free will, 但我们有自由意志
but we have free will, 那就表明我们不遵守决定论
it follows that we're not subject to determinism. 假设我们再往后添加第三点
Suppose we then add three, 所有纯物理系统都遵守决定论
all purely physical systems are subject to determinism. 那好  一和二说我们不遵守决定论
Well, one and two gave us that we are not subject to determinism. 三说  所有纯物理系统都遵守决定论
Three says, all purely physical systems are subject to determinism. 那么  综合一二三我们得到
Well, it would follow then from one, two, and three 我们不仅仅是纯粹的物理系统
that we are not a purely physical system. 结论  四  我们不只是纯粹的物理系统
So, conclusion, four, we are not a purely physical system. 那好
All right. 这就是从自由意志得出的论证
That's the argument from free will. 现在  这个论证是有效的
Now, the argument is valid. 那是哲学家的术语
That's philosopher's jargon, 这就是说  有了这三个前提
that is to say, given the three premises, 我们确实能得到这个结论
the conclusion really does follow. 有趣的是
The interesting question is, 这三个前提是真的吗
"Are the three premises true?" 而且它们要全部为真
And they've got to all be true. 那么其中的每一个都必须为真
It's got to be that every single one of them is so. 下次一开始我会花一两分钟时间来讲这个
I'll just spend a minute more on this starting next time. 但下次要思考的关键是
But the point to think about for next time is just, 那三个前提是否的确全部为真
is it really true that all three of the premises are true, 或许一个或几个为假呢
or might one or more of them be false? 那好  下次我们就从那里开始讲起
All right. That's where we'll start next time. 



 Chapter 4: 灵魂存在与否的论证（三）：自由意志与濒死体验


好的
All right. 我们已经讨论了
We've been talking about arguments 那些让我们相信
that might give us reason to believe 灵魂存在的论证
in the existence of an immaterial soul. 目前为止 我们讨论的这些论证
The kinds of arguments we have been considering so far 都是在 "最佳解释推理"
all fall under the general rubric of 这个一般准则下进行的的
"Inference to the best explanation." 我们 或者灵魂论的拥护者们假设
We posit--or the fans of souls posit-- 灵魂是存在的
the existence of souls 这就能解释一些我们自身不解的东西
so as to explain something that needs explaining about us. 我已经讲过一系列这样的论证
I've gone through a series of such arguments, 上次课结束时我提到的一个论证认为
and the one that we ended with last time was the suggestion that 我们只有相信灵魂存在
we need to believe in the existence of a soul 才能解释我们拥有自由意志这一事实
in order to explain the fact that we've got free will. 我们拥有自由意志这一事实
The fact that we've got free will is something 被大多数人认为理所应当
that most of us take for granted about ourselves. 但人们对此的诟病
But the complaint then, 或物理主义的反驳者认为
or the objection to the physicalist, 人不可能仅仅是一个物理实体
takes the form that we couldn't be a merely physical entity 因为物理实体不可能有自由意志
because no merely physical entity could have free will. 而人有自由意志
But we've got free will, 所以在我们身上有着
so there's got to be something 超越物理实体的特质
more to us than just being a physical object. 现在如果我们让二元论者去解释
Now, if we push the dualist to explain 什么是自由意志  它又是如何否定
what is it about free will that rules out 人仅仅是物理实体这种可能性的
the possibility that we are merely physical objects, 我认为他们自然会这样
I think the natural suggestion to spell out the argument 阐述这个论证
goes like this, 这是就我们在上节课结束时讲到的内容
and this is where we were at the end of last time. 以上的观点是
The thought is that, 自由和被决定
there's a kind of incompatibility 这两者是不相容的
with being free and being determined. 我的意思是  根据物理主义者的观点
I mean, after all from the physicalist's point of view, 人只是一种"高级"的机器人
we're just a kind of glorified robot, 能做到大多数科幻电影里
able to do all sorts of things that 大多数机器人所能做到的事
most robots in most science fiction movies can do. 但是  在某种意义上
But still, in a sense, 人只是"高级"的物理实体
we're just a glorified physical object. 人只是机器人
We're just a robot. 而且这一反驳指出  机器人是被编程的
And robots, the objection goes, are programmed; 机器人必须遵照程序做事
they necessarily follow their program. 我们甚至可以这样说
More generally speaking, we might say, 它们受制于决定性的法则
they're subject to deterministic laws... 即  作为物理实体
that, as physical objects, 它们必须按照
it's true of them that they must do 物理定律和自然法则的要求去做
what the laws of physics and laws of nature require that they do. 物理定律是以决定论式的形式给出的
And the laws of physics are-- take a deterministic form, 尽管决定论这个词有些术语化
determinism being a bit of philosopher's jargon 如果我们以某种方式
for when it's true of these laws that 设定了一个物体或者一个系统
or a physical--or a system-- 它们就会遵循决定论
that if you set it up a certain way, 产生这样那样的因果关系
cause and effect plays out such that, 给定了初始设置
given that initial setup, 就会有完全相同的结果
the very same effect must follow. 自然法则决定了
It's determined by the laws of nature 这个结果必然跟随这个原因产生
that the effect that follows will follow from that cause. 所以  如果你将一盘磁带
And so, if you rewind the tape 反反复复地播放
and play it again over and over and over again, 每次你播放的内容
each time you set things up the very same way 从头到尾的起承转合一定是
they must move or transform or change or end up 绝对一致的
in the very same state. 这就是决定论的含义
Well, that's what determinism is all about. 从直觉上讲
And intuitively, 对于很多人来说
it seems plausible to many people 你不可能既有自由意志又服从于决定论
that you couldn't have free will and be subject to determinism. 因为自由意志的内涵就是
Because the notion of free will was that 即使我再次处在相同的地点
even if I was in the very same spot again, 相同的情况下
the very same situation again, 我也可能做出不同的选择
I could've chosen differently. 我并非注定要做那个选择的
So I wasn't determined or predetermined to make that choice. 因此我们要更完整地阐述这个论证的话
So if we were to spell out the argument somewhat more fully, 它应该是  人有自由意志
it might be, "We have free will, 但人不能既有自由意志
but you can't both have free will 又遵从决定论 或服从确定性的定律
and be subject to determinism or subject to deterministic laws." 而每个物理实体 或者说每个纯粹的物理实体
And every physical object, or every purely physical object, 都遵从着确定性的定律
is subject to deterministic laws 因为物理定律是确定性的
because the laws of physics are deterministic. 综上所述 你就能得到这样的结论
You put these things together and you get the conclusion that we, 由于我们有自由意志
since we've got free will, 所以不可能是纯粹的物理对象
can't be a purely physical object. 在我们身上一定存在着
There must be something 超越于物理实体的特质
more than the purely physical to us. 这是上节课结束时
That's the argument I put up on the board 我在黑板上所写的论证
at the end of last class. 现在我们从这里开始
And here we've got it up here now. 一  人有自由意志
One, we have free will. 二  所有服从决定论的东西都没有自由意志
Two, nothing subject to determinism has free will. 三  所有纯粹的物理系统都服从于决定论
Three, all purely physical systems are subject to determinism. 所以 我们得到一个结论
So--a conclusion-- 我们不是纯粹的物理系统
We are not a purely physical system. 要解释我们有自由意志这一事实
To explain the fact that we've got free will, 反驳者会说
so the objection goes, 我们不得不诉诸  或者假定灵魂存在
we have to appeal to-- we have to posit--the existence of a soul, 这里提到的灵魂是非物质并超出物质的东西
something non-physical, something more than purely physical. 这个论证就是这样
Well, that's the argument. 但是我并不认为这个论证有说服力
But I don't myself find the argument compelling. 现在 首先要注意的是
Now, the first thing to notice is 只有三个前提全部成立才能得出结论
that to get the conclusion we need all three premises. 放弃我们已得到的结论
Give up the conclusion that we've got-- 放弃"我们有自由意志"这个前提
Give up the premise that "We've got free will," 就不能推出我们是非物质的
it won't follow that we're non-physical. 即使某些有自由意志的东西
Even if something that did have free will 必然是非物质的
would have to be non-physical, 那也推不出来我们是非物质的
it wouldn't follow that we're non-physical. 对每一条假设都是如此
That's true for each one of the premises. 抛开这一点  结论就不成立了
Give it up, the conclusion doesn't go through. 有趣的是
And the interesting thing is that 每一个前提似乎都有其合理质疑之处
each one of these premises could be plausibly challenged. 正如我上次所说的
Now, as I said last time, 自由意志这个主题 或者说自由意志
the subject of free will--or free will, 决定论  因果论  责任
determinism, causation and responsibility, 这一堆问题
this cluster of problems-- 是极端困难和复杂的物理问题
is an extremely difficult and complicated physical problem. 要讨论它们的话肯定会花掉一整个学期
And we could easily devote an entire semester to discussing it. 所以对它们我现在只做一个
So all we're doing here is 最简单  最浅层次的分析
the most quick and superficial glance. 但我还是要简短地指出
But still, let me quickly point out 为什么你们会拒不认同
why you could resist 从自由意志的角度来论证灵魂的存在
the argument from free will to the existence of a soul. 首先  像我刚才提到的
First of all, as I just noted, 这个论证的成立需要前提一
the argument needs premise number one. 必须要有事实证明我们有灵魂
It's got to be the case to prove that we've got a soul-- 至少是为了能够证明这个论证
at least for this argument to work to prove 人是有灵魂的
that we've got a soul-- 必须要有事实证明我们有自由意志
it's got to be the case that we've got free will. 这种观点会受到质疑的
Now, that could be challenged. 有这样一些哲学家  他们说
There are philosophers who have said 我们确实相信自己有自由意志
we certainly believe that we've got free will, 但这只是一种错觉
but it's an illusion. 我们并不是真的有自由意志
We don't really have free will. 的确  我们为什么没有自由意志
Indeed, why don't we have free will? 这个论证的其余部分
For precisely the reasons that are pointed to 会为我们指出切确的原因
by the rest of the argument. 有人会说
They might say, 人是物理实体
"Oh, well, you know, we're physical objects; 我们服从于决定论
determinism is true of us. 而遵循决定论的物理实体
No physical object that's subject to determinism 是没有自由意志的
could have free will, 所以人没有自由意志
so we don't have free will. 当然  我们错误地相信自己有自由意志
Of course, we mistakenly believe we've got free will. 我们生活在人有自由意志
We are physical objects that labor under the illusion that 这样的错觉下
we have free will, 但毕竟
but after all, 自由意志不是那种可以看得到的东西  对吧
free will isn't something that you can just see, right? 你不能通过窥视自己的心灵
You can't peer into your mind 确切地看到你有自由意志
and see the fact that you've got free will. 是的  我们曾经觉得
Yes, we've got the sense that 我们可以做出与现实不同的事
we could've acted differently, 但可能这只是错觉
but maybe that's an illusion." 有哲学家按照这种思路
As I say, there are philosophers who've argued that way, 否定了人有自由意志
have denied that we have free will 如果我们由此得出
and if we do conclude that 人没有自由意志这个结论
we don't actually have free will, 那么这个论证也不再
then we no longer have 支持灵魂存在这个说法
this argument for the existence of a soul. 这是回避这条论证的一种方法
It's a way to avoid the argument; 尽管这条论证有它自身的价值
although, for what it's worth, 应该说  我个人认为
I should mention I don't myself believe that 人有自由意志  并没有错
it's false that we have free will. 也就是说  我认为前提一是成立的
That is to say, I do think premise one is true. 我认为人确实有自由意志
I myself think we do have free will. 尽管我不喜欢
So although I don't like, 或是我不认为这条论证可靠
I don't believe the argument is sound-- 但前提一恰是我想要反驳的
Premise one doesn't happen to be the premise 它作为前提并非偶然
I myself would want to reject. 但还有其他两个关键的前提
But there are other, there are two other key premises. 来说说前提三吧
What about premise number three, 所有纯粹的物理体系都遵从决定论
"All purely physical systems are subject to determinism." 要论证成立  这也是个必要的前提
Well, we need that premise as well to make the argument go. 让我们想想看
Suppose we think, 人不能既有自由意志又遵从决定论
"Look, you can't have free will and determinism. 这两者不能结合
You can't combine them." 这两种不能结合的观点
The view that you can't combine them is 有时被称为 "不相容论"
sometimes known as "Incompatibilism". 原因显而易见
For the obvious reason. 这种观点认为这两个东西是不相容的
It's the view that these two things are incompatible. 人不能既服从决定论又有自由意志
You can't have determinism and free will. 假定我们相信不相容论
Suppose we do believe in incompatibilism 并认为人有自由意志
and believe that we've got free will. 就能够推理出
It would follow then 我们不遵从确定性法则
that we're not subject to deterministic laws. 二元论者认为
Well, the dualist says, 这表明我们必须相信
"That shows us that we have to believe that 人有非物质性的一面
there's something non-physical about us. 毕竟  按照前提三
Because after all, premise three: 所有纯粹的物理系统都遵从决定论
'All purely physical systems are subject to determinism.' 基本的物理定律
Isn't it true after all that 难道不都是决定性的吗
the basic laws of physics are deterministic laws? 问题的答案是  "这可说不准"
And the answer is, "Well it's not so clear that it is true." 谁说的
Which is just to say 这个论证的前提三也是可以反驳的
that premise three of the argument can be rejected as well. 在这一点上我必须承认
Now, at this point I have to just confess, 像我之前承认过的那样
as I've confessed at other times before, 前提三是关于实证科学的
the three is a claim about empirical science. 我们最经典的的自然规律告诉了我们什么
What does our best theory about the laws of nature tell us? 我不是科学家
And I'm no scientist and 也不是实证方面的专家
I'm no specialist in sort of empirical matters, 相信我
and believe me, 关于量子力学  我并没有发言权
I'm no authority on quantum mechanics, 那可是基础物理中最经典的理论
our best theory of fundamental physics. 别人告诉了我这么一个例子
Still, I take it--I gather--here's what I'm told-- 量子力学的正统理论认为
that the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics says that, 尽管有很多人可能不相信
despite what many of us might've otherwise believed, 物理学的基本定律事实上也不是确定性的
the fundamental laws of physics are not, in fact, deterministic. 这意味着什么
What does that mean? 假定我们有某种放射性原子
Suppose we've got some sort of radioactive atom, 它们以一定的几率衰变
which has a certain chance of decaying. 这意味着什么 好的  这意味着
What does that mean? Well, it means that, 就是说  有可能
you know, there's maybe, let's say, 这个原子会在未来的二十四小时内分裂
that in the next 24 hours it will break down. 我们设定未来二十四小时中
Eighty percent of atoms 有百分之八十的原子会分裂
that are set up like that break down in the next 24 hours; 另外百分之二十的原子不会
20 percent of them don't. 按照量子力学的正统理论
Now, according to quantum mechanics under the standard interpretation, 也就是说  在未来二十四小时内
that's all there is to say about it. You have an atom like that, 这个原子有百分之八十的概率会分裂
80 percent chance in the next 24 hours it will break down. 如果它确实分裂的话
Suppose it does break down! 我们能解释为什么它会分裂么
Can we say why it broke down? 当然 我们会说
Sure. We can say, 它分裂的概率是百分之八十
"Well, after all there was an 80 percent chance that it would." 如果一个原子在二十四小时内没有分裂的话
Take an atom that after 24 hours hasn't broken down. 我们能解释他为什么没有分裂么
Can we say why it hasn't broken down? 当然  它不分裂的概率是百分之二十
Sure. There was a 20 percent chance that it wouldn't. 我们能解释
Can we explain why the ones 为什么那个分裂了的原子分裂了
that do break down break down and the ones 而没分裂的原子没有分裂吗
that don't break down don't break down? 不能  我们只能说
No. All we can say is, 这个原子分裂的概率是百分之八十
there was an 80 percent chance it would, 不分裂的概率是百分之二十
20 percent chance it wouldn't, 它们当中的大部分会分裂  而一部分不会
so most of them do, some of them don't. 这个解释就说到这
That's as deep as the explanation goes. 不再深入了
There is nothing more. 现在  你知道
Now, you know, 当我们用决定论的观点去分析这个问题时
when we've got our deterministic hats on, 我们自己寻思着
we think to ourselves, 这背后一定有某种具有
"There's got to be some underlying 因果关系的解释
causal explanation, 某种关于分裂原子的特性
some feature about the break-down atoms 能解释为什么它们分裂了
that explains why they broke down 而由于这种特性不存在于未分裂的原子
and that was missing from the non-break-down atoms 因而解释了它们为什么不能分裂
that explains why they don't break down. 毕竟  我们相信决定论  不是吗
After all, determinism, right? 如果你精确地把原子以
If you set up the atoms 同种方式设置
exactly the same way, 它们肯定会分裂
they've always got to break down." 但答案是
But the answer is, 根据量子力学的标准解释
according to the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics, 这并非如此
that's not how it works. 而真正的解释却是
All there is to say is, 有些原子会分裂
"Some of these are going to break down, 而有些则不会
and some of these won't." 物理学的基本法则
The fundamental laws of physics, 根据量子力学的标准解释来说
according to the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics, 这都是概率决定的
are probabilistic. 而决定论在基础物理学范畴内并不正确
Determinism is not true at the level of fundamental physics. 我是这么听说的
Well, that's what I'm told. 记着  我没有资格说
Believe me, I'm in no position to say, 我只不过听别人这么说
but that's what I'm told. 当然了
And of course, 如果我听说的是真的
if that's true, 那前提三就是错的
then premise three is false. 那么所有的纯粹物理系统
It just isn't true that all purely physical systems 都遵从决定论就是错的了
are subject to determinism. 因此即使最终证实
So even if it does turn out 你不能同时拥有自由意志和遵从决定论
that you can't have free will and determinism, 也不能排除我们是纯粹
that doesn't rule out the possibility 物理实体的可能性
that we are purely physical objects, 因为并不是所有的纯粹物理系统
because not all purely physical systems 都遵从决定论
are subject to determinism. 如果决定论在基础水平上不适用于我们
If determinism isn't true of us at the fundamental level, 那即使你不能
then even if you couldn't 同时遵从决定论和拥有自由意志
both have determinism and free will, 我们仍能拥有自由意志
we could still have free will, 而且  尽管如此
and yet, for all that, 我们仍旧属于纯粹的物理系统
still be purely physical systems. 当我竭力指出
While I'm busy pointing out ways 为什么这种论证无法成功时
in which the argument doesn't succeed, 我也想要花点时间
I also want to just take a moment 顺便说说前提二也不能免于批评
and mention that premise two is also subject to criticism. 前提二是一种不相容论的主张
Premise two was the incompatibilist claim that, 即  任何遵从决定论的东西
"Nothing subject to determinism 都没有有自由意志
has free will." 你不能将二者结合
You can't combine them. 它们是不相容的
They're incompatible. 现在  不相容主义  我这样称呼它
Now, incompatibilism, I take it, 在这里大概是像某种从常识出发的观点
is probably something like the common-sense view here. 这是一种我们大多数人都相信的观点
It's the view that probably most of you believe, 但是再一次的  需要指出
but again, it's worth noting 从哲学讲它是站不住脚的
that philosophically it can be challenged. 有哲学家
There are philosophers-- 这里我要对他们敬意并声明
and here I'll tip my hat and say, 我也是他们中的一员  有哲学家相信
I'm one of them--there are philosophers who believe that, 事实上  自由意志的观点
in fact, the idea of free will 和决定论并非是不相容的
is not incompatible with determinism. 所以即使我们真的服从于决定论
So even if determinism were true of us, 那也不能排除我们有自由意志的可能
that wouldn't rule out our having free will, 因为你能
because you can-- 尽管表面看来并非如此
appearances to the contrary notwithstanding-- 同时遵从决定论和拥有自由意志
have both determinism and free will. 它们是相容的
They're compatible. 因此  这一观点被称为相容主义
Hence, this view is known as compatibilism. 如果我们接受相容主义
If we accept compatibilism, 我们就能说
we'll be able to say, 看啊  或许我们拥有自由意志
"Look, maybe we have free will 而决定论也适用于我们
and determinism is true of us; 但尽管如此
but for all that, 我们仍旧只是纯粹的物理系统
we're still just purely physical systems." 即便量子力学是错的  而且不知怎的
Even if quantum mechanics was wrong and somehow, 在宏观水平上
you know, at the macro level 所有的非决定性都蒸发了
all the indeterminism boils out-- 不管发生了什么
whatever-- 在宏观水平上我们都成了决定论的系统
and at the macro level we are deterministic systems, 那又如何
so what? 如果一个决定论系统能在此情况下
If a deterministic system could 仍然拥有自由意志
nonetheless have free will, 我们仍可能只是纯粹的物理系统
we could still be purely physical systems. 现在  注意了
Now, mind you, 今天我没说过任何
I haven't said anything today 来说服你们相信相容主义的话
to convince you of the truth of compatibilism, 我也不打算那样做
nor am I going to try to do that. 我的观点不过就是说我们不应该这么草率地
My point here was only to say we shouldn't be so quick 认为我们不得不相信
to think that we have to believe in 灵魂的存在
the existence of a soul in order to 从而解释我们有自由意志
explain our having free will. 只有这个论证的所有前提都成立
It takes all of the premises of the argument 才能得出灵魂存在的结论
to get the conclusion that the soul exists. 而这里的每一个前提都可能站不住脚
And each one of the premises can be challenged. 这里我并不只是指
And here I mean not merely, 从逻辑上讲
well, logically speaking, 你当然可以
you know, of course you can 反驳这个论证的每一个前提
reject any premise of any argument. 不  我是指  我们有合理的哲学
No. I mean, there are reasonable philosophical 或科学依据使我们
or scientific grounds for 怀疑这的每一个前提
worrying about each one of the premises. 因为这个论证的要求太苛刻了
The argument requires a lot. 但这并不表明这个论证就不成立
That doesn't prove that the argument fails, 而它确实意味着
but it does mean 如果你要用这种途径
that you're going to have your work cut out for you 来证明灵魂存在的话
if you're going to use this route 你需要有人帮你解答疑团
to arguing for the existence of a soul. 好吧  让我们概括一下
All right. Let's recap. 我说过
As I said, 我们考察了各种各样
we've been considering different kinds of arguments 证明灵魂存在的论证
for the existence of a soul, 每一种都诉诸我们的某种特性
each of which appeals to some feature about us-- 我们的创造性  我们的感知能力
our creativity, our ability to feel, 当然还有我们定性方面的经验
the fact that we have a qualitative aspect of experience, 我们推理的能力
our ability to reason-- 诸如此类的
what have you. 有些关于我们的事实需要解释
Some fact about us that calls out for explanation, 而二元论者的主张是
and the claim on the part of the dualists was, 如果不诉诸灵魂  我们就无法解释这些
we couldn't explain it without appealing to a soul. 而我也辩驳过了
And I've argued-- 我给你们讲过为什么我认为
I've shared with you my reasons for thinking 这些论证并不具有说服力
that those arguments are not compelling. 但注意  至今我提到过的
But notice that all of the kinds of considerations 所有特性
I pointed to so far 也许都是我们已经习以为常
are what we might think of as everyday, 熟悉了的特性
familiar features about us. 我们能思考推理  感知创造
It's an everyday occurrence that we can think and reason 或能做出不同的选择  拥有自由意志
and feel and be creative, or choose otherwise 都是每天存在的事
and have free will. 或许更好支持灵魂存在的论证应着眼于
Maybe the better arguments for the soul focus 不寻常的  超自然的现象
not on the everyday but on the unusual, 而非日常所见
on the supernatural. 这里我们就有了全新的一类论证
Here we might then have an entire other family of arguments, 一系列的论证
set of arguments--again, 但仍需遵循
still of the form "最佳解释推理"
"Inference to the best explanation." 或许我们需要假设灵魂存在以解释鬼魂
Maybe we need to posit the soul in order to explain ghosts. 或许我们需要假设灵魂存在以探讨第六感
Maybe we need to posit the soul in order to explain ESP; 或许我们需要假设灵魂存在
maybe we need to posit the soul in order to 来解释濒死体验
explain near-death experiences. 或许我们需要假设灵魂存在来解释
Maybe we need to posit the soul in order to explain 降神或者与死者通灵
what goes on in séance or communications 之类的是怎么一回事
from the dead or what have you. 对于以上任意一个
For any one of those, 我们都能再次提出一个论证
we could again run an argument where we say, 看啊  这里有某个东西需要解释
"Look, here is something that needs explaining. 而最佳的解释是诉诸灵魂的
The best explanation appeals to the soul." 现在  我会加速
Now, I'm going to be rather quicker 讨论这类论证
in discussing this family of arguments, 但起码让我花几分钟
but let me take at least a couple of minutes 来稍微提一下
and do something about that. 以濒死体验为例
Take, for example, near-death experiences. 你们读过一些课程包里
This is something that you read a bit about in the selection 希克和沃恩的书的摘录
from Schick and Vaughn in your course packet 你们大多数人估计都很熟悉里面的基本思想
The basic idea was probably familiar to most of you anyway, 它认为下列事情会在这样的人身上
that the following thing happens with people who, 你知道
you know, 也许他们的心脏突然停止跳动
maybe their heart goes into a cardiac arrest-- 或诸如此类
what have you. 他们死在手术台上
They die on the operating table, 但很快他们又起死回生  我们可以这样说
but then they're brought back to life, as we put it. 而询问他们时  很多人都会说
And many such people, when we question them afterwards, 那是一种很神奇的体验
have a very striking experience. 而其中最振奋的就是
And one of the things that's striking is, 不管一个人的
how similar the experience is 生活经验及文化背景
from person to person and from culture to culture-- 有多相似  他们都能感受到
that they've got some notion, 当他们在手术台上死去
as they were dead on the operating table, 身体已经逝去
of leaving their body. 或许他们开始飘浮在自己身体之上
Perhaps they begin to view their body from up-- 从上往下看
floating up above it. 最终  或许
Eventually, perhaps, 在这些例子中他们都会体验到自己离开
they leave the operating room altogether in this experience 当时的手术室
that they're having, 并感到愉悦和欣喜
and they have a feeling of joy and euphoria; 他们会有某种穿越隧道
they have some experience of going through a tunnel, 并在隧道尽头看见一些亮光的体验
seeing some light at the end of the tunnel. 或许在隧道的另一头
Perhaps at the other end of the tunnel 他们开始某种交流
they begin to have some communications 或者看见早已死去的挚爱亲友
or see some loved one who has died previously 看见他们传统教义中
or perhaps some famous religious person in their-- 或宗教传统中的
in the teaching of their tradition-- 某个著名宗教人物
their religious tradition. 他们会感到
They have the sense that 他们所做的
what they've done 可以说是死亡后升入了天堂
is basically died and gone to heaven. 但是突然他们被猛拽回来
But then suddenly they get yanked back, 然后他们在病房里
and they wake up, you know, 醒了过来
in the hospital room. 所以他们经历了濒死体验
So they've had near-death experiences. 或者一种更好的表述方式
Or perhaps a better way to put it 是他们经历了死亡体验
would be they've had death experiences 但是之后被带回人世
but then have been brought back to life. 这种事确实存在  不是吗
Now, there it is, right? 你调查了这些人
You survey people, 而这些人确实有这些体验
and people have these experiences. 现在我们不得不问问自己
And now we have to ask ourselves, 这又怎么解释呢
"What explains this?" 这有一种直截了当的解释
And here's a perfectly straightforward and natural explanation. 这些人死了
These people died. 他们的肉体死了  他们去了另一个世界
Their bodies died, and they went to the next world. 他们到了来生
They went to the next life. 他们去了天堂但之后又被突然拽回来
They went to heaven but then were yanked back. 但是他们的肉体那时却躺在手术台上
Now, their bodies were lying there on the operating table; 他们的肉体并不在天堂
their bodies weren't in heaven. 所以某种非肉体的东西去了天堂
So something non-bodily went to heaven. 这种解释就是这么说的
That's how the explanation goes. 这是一种自然
It's a natural, 了当地对所发生事情的解释
straightforward explanation of what's gone on here. 因此  这是一个最佳解释推理
Hence, inference to the best explanation. 我们需要假设灵魂
We need to posit the soul, 某种非物质的  能在肉体死后还存在的东西
something immaterial that survives the death of the body, 能离开肉体  升入天堂
that can leave the body, go up to heaven; 尽管  正如在这些例子里发生的
though, as it happens in these cases, 它们之间的联系从未完全破裂
the tie is never completely broken. 他们被猛拽回来
They get yanked back; 他们的灵魂不知什么原因被猛拽回来
the soul gets yanked back by whatever cause, 并重新和肉体连接上
and reconnected to the body. 这就好似我们可能会认为
It's as though we might think of 存在两个房间
there being two rooms-- 比方说
to use a kind of analogy here. 一个房间代表这个世界
There is the room that this world represents, 代表今生
this life represents. 而在这些经历里发生的就是
And what happens in these experiences is 你的灵魂离开这个房间  到达第二个房间
that your soul leaves this room and goes into a second room, 代表另一个世界或来世的房间
the room of the next world or the next life, 但出于各种原因
but for various reasons, 你的灵魂不能留在另一个房间里
isn't allowed to stay in the next room. 它被猛拽回这个房间
It gets yanked back to this room. 这是一个可能的解释
Well, that's a possible explanation. 而马上
And in a moment, 我要问你们这是否是最好的解释
I'll ask whether it's the best possible explanation, 但在我们转向那个问题之前
but before we do turn to that question, 有一个对这一整套
there is an objection to 看待问题的方式的反驳
this entire way of looking at things 或许值得我们稍微停留并考虑一番
that's probably worth pausing for a moment and considering. 这个反驳和这门课伊始我们讨论的
The objection is similar to the kind of dismissive attitude 某个问题一样都带着某种轻蔑的态度
that we saw at the beginning of the course about the question, 我们能幸免于死吗
"Could I survive my death?" 在生命已经消逝之后还会有生命吗
Well, duh. Could there be life after there is no more life? 当然没有
Well, of course not. 这一反驳说道
Here the objection says, 这种有两个房间的想法肯定是错的
this two-room notion's got to be mistaken. 人们所说的自身死亡时
It can't be that what's going on in near-death experiences 所产生的濒死体验
is that people are reporting about 是绝对不可能发生的  因为
what it's like to be dead because-- 这种反驳这样说道
so the objection says-- 他们没有真正死掉
they never really died. 毕竟  20分钟后
After all, 20 minutes later, 或者不管多久
or whatever it is, 他们能下床活动了
there they are up and about. 呃  并不是下床活动
Well, not up and about; 他们大概还躺在病床上
they're presumably lying in their hospital beds, 但他们显然活过来了
but they're clearly alive. 因此  便得出了
Hence, it follows that 他们从未真正死过的结论
they never really died. 或者  如果你想的话
Or, if you want, 你可以说或许他们死过
you could say maybe they died, 但既然他们没有永久地死去
but since they obviously didn't die permanently-- 毕竟他们被救活了
after all they were brought back to life-- 那么他们怎么可能告诉我们
how could they possibly tell us 永久死亡是什么样子的呢
what it's like to be permanently dead? 我们怎么能把他们的体验当作
How can we take their experiences 对来生的真实报告呢
as veridical reports of the afterlife? 因为我们想知道的是
Because what we want to know is 永久死去是什么样的
what is like to be permanently dead, 而这些人并没有永久地死去
and these people were never permanently dead. 无论他们有多么不寻常的体验
So whatever unusual experiences they may be having, 那也不是他们的来生体验
they are not reports of the afterlife. 这就是反驳的观点
That's how the objection goes. 尽管
Although, I think, 我停下来提出那个反驳
I was pausing for a moment to raise that objection, 但我想这不是一个需要
it's not an objection that 我们认真对待的反驳
I think we should take all that seriously. 假设我们同意
Suppose we were to agree, 严格说来这些人没有死
all right, strictly speaking these people didn't die. 或者严格说来 至少他们没有
Or strictly speaking they didn't die, 永久地死去
certainly at least, permanently. 难道这就意味着
Does it follow from that 他们的经验不能成为证据证明
that their experiences should not be taken as evidence of 来生是什么样的吗
what the afterlife is like? 我想这真是一个有误导性的反驳
I think that's really a misguided objection. 假设某人说
Suppose somebody said, 我在法国住了二十年
"Look, I spent 20 years living in France, 之后我回到美国
and then I came back to the United States. 我想告诉你法国是什么样的
And so I want to tell you what it's like in France." 别人就会说
And somebody says, 你也清楚  你从没有永久地搬到法国
"You know, you never really moved to France permanently. 所以你在法国的经验  不管怎么样
So your experiences in France, whatever they are-- 即使很有趣
interesting as they may be-- 那也不能让人了解
can't really cast any light on 永久地搬到法国是什么样的
what it would be like to permanently move to France. 你会说  有没有搞错啊
You'd say, "Give me a break!" 不是吗  的确如此
Right? "It's true that, of course, 我没有永久地搬到法国
I didn't move to France permanently. 但是我仍然有些法国的经验
Still, I have some experience of France. 所以我可以  毕竟二十年还是有很多
And so I can--a great deal after all, 20 years-- 关于住在法国是什么样的感觉
I can give you a pretty good idea of 我可以给你很好的描述
what it's like to live in France, 就算在我的有生之年我再也不会
even if I didn't move there for the rest of my life 搬回法国
without ever coming back." 如果你只是去法国待了几天就回来的话
You can't say quite as much if you've only been in France 的确没有多少可说的
for a couple of days before coming back, 但是你仍然可以说出一些相关的东西
but still you can say something relevant. 的确  假设我从没去过法国
Indeed, suppose I never went into France at all. 假设我只是曾经
Suppose all that happened was 站在法国的边境线上看过法国
I stood right on the border and peered into France, 同处在法国的人聊过天
talked to some people in France. 他们站在边境线的那边
They were on the French side of the border, 我站在这边
I was on the other side, 但是我和他们聊过一会儿
but I talked to them for a while. 确实我从未踏进那片土地
Still, I never went in, 即便如此  这仍有助于我谈论
but for all that I might have something helpful 法国是个什么样的国家
to say about what it's like in France. 如果关于法国的例子是对的
Well, if that's the right thing to say about the France case, 那为什么关于濒死体验
then why not say the same thing about 我们就不能得出相同的结论呢
the near-death experience case? 即使这些人没在第二个房间待过
Even if these people didn't stay in the second room, 他们没有保持死亡状态
they didn't stay dead, 但是他们多少有些死亡的体验
they had some experience of being dead. 这难道与死了没关系吗
Isn't that relevant to what it would be like to be dead? 或者即使我们说
Or even if we say, 不  严格说来
"No. Strictly speaking, 这些人根本没死
these people didn't die at all. 他们只不过在边缘上探视
They were just on the border looking in. 严格地说  他们从来就没死过
They never, strictly speaking, died at all." 那又如何
So what? 他们毕竟在边境上探视过
They were on the border looking in. 要说这些都是不相干的经验
To suggest that that couldn't be relevant evidence 就好比说我现在不能告诉你
is like saying I can't tell you anything interesting about 走廊上发生了什么
what's going on in the hallway right now, 毕竟我不在走廊上
because after all I'm not in the hallway; 我在教室里面
I'm here in the lecture hall. 那又如何
So what? 就算我现在在教室里
Even though I'm here in the lecture hall, 我仍然能看到走廊  并告诉你发生了什么
I can see into the hallway and tell you what's going on in it. 因此想要在哲学基础上
So attempts to dismiss the appeal to near- 驳回这种诉诸濒死体验
death experiences on what we might call philosophical grounds-- 这可不是一个好的哲学观
this would be the bad notion of philosophy-- 从哲学基础上来看
on philosophical grounds, 我想那是不明智的
I think that's got to be misguided. 但是  这并不意味着
Still, that doesn't mean 我们应该相信那些从濒死体验角度
that we should believe the argument for 来证明灵魂存在的论证
the existence of the soul from near-death experiences, 因为问题仍在
because the question remains, 对于濒死体验的
"What's the best explanation of 最好解释是什么
what's going on in near-death experiences?" 我说过  一种可能性就是
Now, one possibility, as I suggested, 之前我称为 两个房间的解释
was what I called a second ago the "Two-room explanation." 这里是今生的房间
There's the room of this life, 那里有一个来世的房间
and there's the room of the next life 有濒死体验的人
and people who have near-death experiences 或者短暂地进入到第二个房间
either temporarily were in the second room 或者至少对第二个房间匆匆一瞥
or else at least they were glancing into the second room. 这是一种可能的解释
That's one possible explanation. 当然  还有另一种可能的解释
But of course, there's a different possible explanation-- 一间房的解释
the one-room explanation. 人只有这一辈子
There's just life, this life, 当你靠近这间房的墙时
and as you come very close to the wall of the room, 一切看起来  感觉起来
things end up looking and seeming and feeling 跟把这面墙放在房子中间有很大的不同
rather different than they do in the middle of the room. 也许一间房的比喻并不是最好的
Now, maybe the one-room metaphor is not the best metaphor, 因为它立刻会引出这个问题
because it immediately prompts the question, 墙的另一边是什么呢
"Well, what's on the other side of the wall?" 当然
And of course, 物理主义者的看法就是
the physicalist's suggestion is 墙的另一边什么也没有
there isn't anything on the other side of the wall. 也许对此更好的表述方式是
So maybe a better way to talk about it would just be: 生命是一个生物学过程
Life's a biological process; 我们对这个过程都很熟悉
we're all familiar with that process, 在它的中期
sort of, in its middle stretches. 在它的末期
In its closing stretches, 一些异常的生物学过程介入
some fairly unusual biological processes kick in. 在少见  但并非从未听闻的
In rare, but not unheard of, 情况下  有些人开始
cases, some people begin 经历那样一些不正常的生理过程
to have those unusual biological processes 然后回归正常的生物学过程
and then return to the normal biological processes 他们可以谈论
and can talk about 在那个不正常的生物过程里发生了什么
what was happening in the unusual biological processes. 那也只不过是说
Which is just to say, 关于濒死体验我们需要给出
we need to offer a biological/physical explanation of 一个生物学或物理学的解释
what goes on in near-death experiences. 注意  这还不是一个物理主义的解释
Now, mind you, that's not yet to offer the physical explanation; 这只是一张期票
it's just a promissory note. 我们现在有两个对立的解释
We now have two rival explanations, 二元论解释是灵魂  因此我们进入
the soul, dualist, explanation that we went into 到了另一个世界的  而物理主义
the other world and the physicalist, 从物理角度  用期票解释了
promissory note that we can explain the white lights 白光  兴奋的感觉
and the feeling of euphoria 以及在远处看到自己身体的现象
and seeing your body from a distance in physical terms. 我们并没有什么物理学的解释
We don't really have very much of a physical explanation 除非我们能够对濒死体验的各方面
until we begin to offer scientific accounts of 给出科学的阐释
each of those aspects of near-death experience. 但事实上  这却是科学家研究的领域
But this is, in fact, an area on which scientists work. 你们可以看到希克和沃恩在阅读材料里
And you saw some of the beginnings of an explanation 对某个解释做了一个开头
offered in the reading by Schick and Vaughn. 比如说 当身体受到压力
So, for example, when the body is in stress, 这在生物学过程的末端
as would likely happen toward the end of 极易发生
the biological processes, 当身体受压时
when the body is in stress, 身体就会放出一定的内啡肽
certain endorphins get released by the body. 也许这能解释兴奋的感觉
Perhaps that explains the feelings of euphoria. 身体受压时
When the body is in stress, 我们收到对大脑视觉区域
we have various unusual stimulations of 各种不同寻常的的刺激
the visual sections of the brain, 也许这可以解释白光
and perhaps that explains the white light 或者在隧道里压抑的感觉
or the feeling of compression in the tunnel. 我不是什么科学家
Now, again, I'm not any kind of scientist 所以我没有资格说
and so I'm not in any position to say, 看  这个解释的细节就是这样
"Look, here are the details of the explanation." 你通过这些阅读材料得到一些初步了解后
But you get the beginnings of that sketched in the readings, 你就需要作出判断了
and it's a judgment call you've got to make. 我们用创伤后应激
Does it seem more plausible 来解释这些当你濒临死亡时
that we can explain these experiences 你的身体和大脑
in terms of the traumatic stress 所经历的体验  这看起来
that your body and brain is going through 会更合理吗
when you are near dying? 或者这样说更合理
Or is it more plausible to suggest, 这里发生的就是
"No. What's happened here 灵魂从与身体的联系中解脱了
is a soul has been released from connection with the body." 在我看来
For my money, 我觉得这些初步的
I find the beginnings 科学解释已经足够有说服力
of the scientific explanation sufficiently persuasive 足够令人信服
and sufficiently compelling 而从濒死体验的角度
that I don't find the argument from near- 来证明灵魂存在论证
death experience--as an argument for the existence of a soul-- 我认为它不是特别有说服力
I don't find it especially persuasive. 当然  还有很多其他的东西
Of course, there are various other things 我们可以诉诸
we could appeal to in terms of 超自然事件  不是吗
supernatural occurrences, right? 我已经提到过其中之一  现在只是讨论
I've only mentioned--only discussed now in detail-- 其中的细节
one of them. 但仍有很多关于
But there are a variety of things about 有人能和死人  或鬼魂
people who can communicate from 或者降神会交流之类的传言
the dead or ghosts or seances or what have you. 对于这些东西
And what the physicalist 物理主义者该怎么做
would need to do for each one of those-- 对于这些  你可以想到二元论者会说
For each one of those you can imagine a dualist who says, 我们需要相信有灵魂才能解释通灵
"We need to believe in a soul so as to explain seances. 我们怎么解释通灵的那个人
How do we explain the fact that the person 好像真的知道
who's conducting the seance knows things about, 只有你死去的叔叔才知道的故事
your history that only your dead uncle would know?" 二元论者可以诉诸鬼魂之类的来解释
The dualist can explain that by appealing to ghosts and the like. 物理主义者又如何解释这种事呢
How does the physicalist explain things like that? 一个简单的答案就是  我不知道
Short answer is, I don't know. 我不是那种
I'm not the kind of person 喜欢用物理主义
who makes it his business to try to 自然主义  唯物主义的科学角度
explain away those things in physicalist, 来解释东西的人
naturalistic, materialistic, scientific terms. 但的确有这样的人
But there are people who make it their business. 比如说  有一个魔术师
So, for example, there's a magician-- 问题不在于
The question is not, 我能否给你解释通灵任何
could I explain to you how the seance manages 做到这些惊人事情的
to do the amazing things that it does? 你要想问我那些  就是在浪费时间
You're wasting your time asking somebody like me. 你要问的是魔术师
The person to ask is a magician, 他们的职业就是愚弄别人
somebody whose profession it is to fool people 让人相信他们有魔法
and make it look like they can do things with magic. 而事实上  有些专业的魔术师
So in fact, there are professional magicians 主要揭露那些声称
who make it their business to debunk people 能和死人沟通的人的秘密
who claim to genuinely be in contact with the dead and the like. 有这样一个魔术师
There's a magician, 好像他叫 "令人惊奇"的兰迪
I think his name is The Amazing Randi, 他有一个长期的悬赏
who has a sort of standing offer; 他说  你展示给我看通灵
he says, "You show me what happened in the seance 或如何同死人交流
or in communication with the dead or what have you, 我就告诉你这是怎么做到的
and I'll show you how to do it. 我会给你揭开谜底
I'll debunk it for you." 他给出一个长期悬赏
Spoiler alert. And he has a standing offer, 他说  我将不计报酬
he says, "I'll pay whatever the amount is, 给第一个在我面前展示
$10,000 to the first person 我用魔术无法再现的超自然
who can document some effect done in supernatural terms 现象的人10000美元
that I can't reproduce through trickery." 目前为止还没出现那样的人
So far he's never had to pay out. 那并不能证明二元论是错的
Well again, that doesn't prove the dualist is wrong. 可能存在真正的通灵
It could be that there are genuine seances. 也许真的有鬼魂
It could be that there really are ghosts. 也许真的可以和死去的人交流
It could be that there really is communication from the dead. 和往常一样
As is typically the case, 你必须自己决定
you've got to decide for yourself 哪种解释更合适
what strikes you as the better explanation. 是超自然的
Is the supernatural, 二元论的解释
dualist explanation the more likely one? 还是物理主义的解释
Or is the physicalist explanation the more likely one? 你做了一个梦
Look, you have a dream 梦见你死去的妈妈回来跟你说话
where your dead mother has come back to talk to you. 一个可能的解释  二元论者会说
One possible explanation, the dualist, 那是你妈妈的鬼魂
that's the ghost of your mother, 她是一个非物质的灵魂
immaterial soul that she is, 在你睡觉的时候跟你交流
communicating to you while you're asleep. 第二个可能的解释就是
Second possible explanation, 那只不过是个梦
it's just a dream. 当然你会梦到你妈妈
Of course you dream about your mother 那是因为你潜意识里惦记着她
because your unconscious cares about her. 哪种解释更合适
What's the better explanation? 我们这里没有时间一个接一个地
We don't have the time here to go case, 看这些例子 然后问
by case, by case, and ask ourselves, 这个证据是怎么让一方打倒另一方的
"How does the evidence fall down one side versus the other?" 但当我考察这个证据时
But when I review the evidence, 我认为
I come away thinking there's 没有比物理证据更好的理由
no good reason to move beyond the physical. 简单概括一下就是
So again, let's recap. 主张灵魂存在的一方声称
One group of arguments for the existence of a soul says, 我们必须假设灵魂存在  才能解释一些
"We need to posit a soul in order to explain something, 司空见惯或是超自然的现象
whether it's something everyday or something supernatural." 灵魂的存在将成为
The existence of a soul would be 一种可能的解释的开端
the beginnings of a possible explanation. 但问题绝不是
But the question is never, 那是一个可能的解释吗
"Is that a possible explanation?" 而是  那是最佳的解释吗
but, "Is it the best explanation?" 所以当我考察各种论证时
And when I review these various arguments, 我不会说最佳解释肯定是
I come away thinking the better explanation 物理主义的
falls with the physicalist. 注意  我并不否认
Mind you, I don't want to deny 物理主义者在某些方面
that there are some things the physicalist 做出的某些解释不充分
has not yet done a very compelling job of explaining. 如我之前所言  我认为特别是那些
In particular, as I've mentioned previously, i think 对于意识本质的研究
there are mysteries and puzzles 还存在许多奥秘和难题
about the nature of consciousness, 拿定性的体验来说
The qualitative aspect of experience, 闻咖啡  吃菠萝  看到红色
what it's like to smell coffee or taste pineapple 具体是什么感觉
or see red. 都很难运用物理主义术语加以解释
It's very hard to see how you explain that in physicalist terms. 所以由此看来
So to that extent, 我们可以说  目前这还没有定论
I think we can say the jury may still be out. 但我们也不能说
But I don't think what we should say is, 二元论的解释更好
"The better explanation lies with the dualist." 因为我认为灵魂存在的假设并未
Because I think positing a soul doesn't 给予我们一个合理的解释
really yet offer us the explanation. 它只是承诺给出一个解释
It just holds out the promise of an explanation. 这最多只能算是平局  所以
So at best that's a tie, and hence, 还没有令人信服的理由来接受灵魂的存在
no compelling reason to accept the existence of a soul. 除非
It would be one thing, 我们能看出
if we could see 所有物理主义的解释都行不通
that no conceivable physicalist explanation could possibly work. 但我不认为我们处于这样的境地
But I don't think we're in that situation. 我们现在的处境就是
All we're in right now is, 也许关于意识存在的一些东西
perhaps in existence of that with regard to consciousness, 或其他什么的  我们现在还不知如何解释
maybe some other things, we don't yet see how to explain it. 但是不知道
But not yet seeing 怎么解释并不等于
how to explain it is not the same thing as seeing 不能用物理主义解释
that it can't be explained on physicalist terms. 当然
Of course, again, 如果我们拥有一个
if we had a dualist explanation with 既可行又详尽的二元论解释
some details really worked out, 也许我们就会说
maybe we'd have to say, 看哪  这才是更好的解释
"Look, this is the better explanation." 但是二元论还没有给出
But dualism doesn't so much offer the explanation 这样的解释
typically as just say, 也许我们假设非物质的存在会好一些
"Well, maybe we'd be better off positing something immaterial." 但这个并没有什么说服力
That, I think, is not a very compelling argument. 那我们就要问了
Well, let's ask. 还有什么其他论据
What other kinds of arguments could be 可以证明灵魂的存在呢
offered for the existence of a soul? 强调一点
I want to emphasize the point that 到现在为止  我提及的各种论据
the various arguments that I have been talking about so far, 尽管它们都是
although they have this common strand-- 最佳解释的推论
"Inference to the best explanation"-- 但每一个都是独立而分明的
are each separate and distinct arguments. 即使一些行不通  但其他的还有可能行得通
One of them might work even though the other ones don't work. 但我现在想转到完全不同的一类论证
But I want to turn now to a rather different kind of argument. 我接下来要介绍的
The argument I'm about to sketch 是一个纯粹的哲学论证
is a purely philosophical argument, 并非绝对意义上的
not really so much a matter of 解释优劣决定孰强孰弱
who can explain this or that feature of us better than anybody else. 这是一个没有任何经验前提的论证
It's an argument that doesn't seem to have any empirical premises; 它完全只是躺在椅子上对哲学的思考得出
it works from purely armchair philosophical reflection. 但令人称道的是
And the striking thing is that 很多人认为这个论证是令人信服的
many people find this a pretty compelling argument. 我要提到的这个论证  可以追溯到笛卡尔
The argument I'm going to give traces back to Descartes, 一位伟大的早期近代哲学家
the great early modern philosopher. 我不打算对这个论证进行详细讨论
Well, I'm not going to follow the details of this argument, 只是说一下笛卡尔的基本思想
but the basic idea goes back to Descartes. 现在  请你们和我一起想象一个故事
And it starts by asking you to imagine a story. 我将以第一人称的方式来讲述
So I'm going to tell the story in the first person. 在故事中讲的是我自己
I'm going to tell about myself, 但你们会发现
but you know, you'll find the argument sort of, 如果你们相信故事说的是你们自己
perhaps more persuasive if, as I tell the story, 这个论证就会更有说服力
you imagine the story being told about you. 所以你们应该
So each one of you should 把自己想象为故事的主角
translate this into a story about yourself. 在你们的某个清晨
You know, your morning. 我应该说是在我的某个清晨
So this is a story about my morning. 想象  当然  实际上并没发生
Imagine--this didn't, of course, actually happen, 最关键的地方就是想象
but imagine--the crucial point here is simply 故事因此而产生
that we can imagine this story happening, 别去想实际上是否可能发生
not even that we think it's empirically possible, 只需要一点想象
just it's conceivable, 这是个虚构的故事
it's an imaginable story. 好的
All right. 假定我早上醒来
So suppose that I woke up this morning, 也就是说
that is to say, 我在某个位置上  环顾房间四周
at a certain point I look around my room 看到了昏暗的卧室里熟悉的场景
and I see the familiar sights of my darkened bedroom. 我听到
I hear, perhaps, 轿车的声音从室外传来
the sounds of the cars outside my house, 或是闹钟的铃响  随你想象
my alarm clock ringing, what have you. 我离开卧室走向浴室
I move out of the room toward the bathroom, 要去刷牙  当我走进浴室时
planning to brush my teeth. As I enter the bathroom, 光线明亮了些  我看着镜子
it's much more light, I look in the mirror and-- 从这里情节就诡异了  我什么也没看到
here's where things get really weird--I don't see anything. 正常情况下
Normally, of course, 当我照镜子的时候  我会看到自己的脸
when I look in the mirror I see my face. 看到自己的头
I see my head; 看到我躯体的影像
I see the reflection of my torso. 但现在  我在镜子中
But now, as I'm looking into the mirror, 什么也没看到
I don't see anything at all. 却看到了身后的淋浴喷头
Instead, I see the shower reflected behind me. 正常情况下  它应该是被我的身体挡住了
Normally, that's blocked of course by me, by my body. 但我看不到我的身体
But I don't see my body. 略微惊吓之余
Slightly freaked out, 我用手去触碰头部
I reach for my head, 也许我们应该说  把手放到
or perhaps we should say I reach for 预想中我头部所在的位置
where I would expect my head to be, 但那里什么也没有
but I don't feel anything there. 朝双臂看去
Glancing down at my arms, 却是空空如也
I don't see any arms. 现在  我终于惊慌失措了
Now, I'm really panicking. 我又试图触碰我的身体
As I begin trying to touch my body, 没有任何感觉
I don't feel anything. 我不但无法用手指感触任何事物
I don't--not only can't I feel anything with my fingers, 也无法感知躯体的位置
I don't have any sensations where my body should be. 接着
Now, we could continue this story, 你们想必已经猜到
but I've probably said enough for you to grant that 我想要干什么了
what I've just started doing-- 一位小说家可能比我更擅长讲故事
a novelist could do a better job of telling the story than I just did-- 但我刚才所做的  仅仅只是想象
but what I've just done was basically imagine-- 我想象着我发现
I've imagined a story in which I discover 自己的躯体不在了
that my body doesn't exist. 或者说  我想象着
Or I've imagined a story in which 我的躯体消亡了
my body has perhaps ceased to exist, 也可以说
or I've imagined a story in which 我存在  或至少我的心灵还存在
I exist, or at least my mind exists. 我在想
You know, I'm thinking thoughts like, 为什么我在镜子中看不到自己的身体呢
"Why can't I see my body in the mirror? 为什么我感觉不到头部呢  到底怎么回事
Why can't I feel my head? What's going on?" 我很恐慌  对吧
I'm panicking, right? 在故事里  我正思考着
We've got a story in which I'm thinking all sorts of thoughts; 我的心灵显然是存在着的
my mind clearly exists, and yet, 但是  我的躯体却不存在了
for all that, my body does not exist. 我们当然能想象到那种情形
We could--certainly it seems-- imagine that possibility. 这个论证最精彩的地方在于
Now, the brilliant thing about this argument is 其就此得出结论
it goes from that to a conclusion about there 心灵和身体之间存在着差异
being a difference between my mind and my body. 我们刚才所作的
What we've just done, 就是想象我的心灵存在
after all, is imagine that my mind exists 而身体不存在
but my body does not. 那它到底表明了什么呢
Now, what does that show? 笛卡尔说  那表明心灵
Descartes says what it shows is the mind 和身体在逻辑上是截然不同的
and the body must be two logically distinct things. 不能把两者混为一谈
The mind and the body cannot be the same thing. 因为
Because, after all, 我刚才所做的是想象心灵脱离身体而存在
what I just did was imagine my mind existing without my body. 但即使仅仅是想象  我怎么就做到了呢
How could I even do that, even in imagination? 怎能想象自己的心灵独立于身体存在呢
How could it even be possible to imagine my mind without my body, 如果心灵只不过是身体的另一种说法
if talking about my mind is just a way of talking about my body? 如果从形而上学的角度说
If they're really, bottom line, 它们终归是一体的
metaphysically speaking, the same thing, 那你根本不可能将两者分离开来
then you couldn't have one without the other after all. 这是一个讲台
So here's a podium. 试着给我讲一个关于这讲台既存在
Try to tell a story in which this podium exists 但又不存在的故事
but this podium does not exist. 你们没法做到  对吧
You can't do it, right? 讲台只是一个物体
The podium is just one thing, the podium. 所以  如果它只是一个物体
And if it is just one thing, 你只能说它存在
you could tell a story in which it exists; 或是不存在
you could tell a story in which it doesn't exist. 但你不能说  它既存在又不存在
But you can't tell a story in which it exists and doesn't exist. 如果我跟你说A存在但B不存在
If I can tell a story in which A exists and B doesn't exist, 就可以得出结论A和B不是一个东西
it's got to follow that A and B are not the same thing. 因为如果B只是
Because if B was just another word for, A的另一种表达方式
another way of talking about, A, 那么认为A存在而
then to imagine A existing but B不存在就是认为A存在但
B not existing would be imagining A existing but-- B  也就是A  却不存在
well, B is just A--A not existing. 显然
But of course, 你无法想象一个A既存在又不存在的世界
you can't imagine a world in which A exists but A doesn't exist. 把这点推而广之
Put the same point the other way around: 如果我可以想象A在没有B的情况下存在
If I can imagine A without B, 那么A和B在逻辑上是相互独立的
then A and B have to be logically distinct things. 它们不可能是一体的
They cannot be identical. 由于我能够想象我的心灵独立于身体存在
But since I can imagine my mind existing without my body, 可以推出  我的心灵
it follows that my mind 和身体在逻辑上是相互独立的
and my body have to be logically distinct things. 它们不可能等同
They cannot be identical. 我的心灵不是身体的另一种说法
My mind cannot just be a way of talking. 谈论心灵
Talking about my mind 不可能只是谈论身体的另一种表述
cannot just be a way of talking about my body. 这是个了不起的论证
Now, it's a very cool argument. 哲学家们都很喜欢这个观点
You know, philosophers love this argument. 我已经告诉过你们
And I've got to tell you, 现今哲学界依旧在争论
to this day there's a debate in the philosophical community 到底这个论证是否正确
about whether or not this argument works. 但有一点是需要说明
It's one thing to be clear-- 有一些东西需要说明
a couple of things to be clear about. 这个论证没有说明什么呢
What exactly is this argument not doing? 这个论证并不是在说  如果某件事是可能的
The argument is not saying, "If something is possible, 如果我能想象它  那它就是真实的
if I can imagine it, it's true." 我可以想象到独角兽
No. I can imagine unicorns. 但这并不意味着独角兽就存在
It doesn't mean unicorns exist. 这个论证不是要说这一点
That's not what the argument is saying. 它只是提出了一个更明确的主张
The argument is only making a much more specific claim. 如果我能想象某物独立于另一物存在
If I can imagine one thing without the other, 那它们就是彼此独立的
they must be separate things. 现在
Now, of course, 还是可以说
it could still be 在真实世界里
that in the real world the 某物不能脱离于另一物而独立存在
one thing cannot exist without the other. 因为一些形而上学的定律
There may be some sort of metaphysical laws 将两者紧密联系在一起
that tie the two things so tightly together 使你无法把其分离开来
that you'll never actually get one without the other. 但这不是我们讨论的内容
That's not the question. 我们要讨论的是  至少如果我可以想象
The point is just if I can at least imagine 某物独立于另一物存在
the one thing without the other, 那么它们就肯定彼此不同
they must in fact be two separate things. 因为如果它们的确是同一个东西
Because if there was really just one thing there, 你是无法脱离它而想象到它的
you couldn't imagine it without it. 正是因为我可以脱离于身体想象心灵
Since I can imagine my mind without my body, 所以就可以说
it must be the case 我的心灵独立于身体
that my mind is something separate and distinct from my body. 要不然  我怎么能独立于身体想象心灵呢
Otherwise, how could I imagine it existing without the body? 如果两者一体
If they were the same thing, 我是无法独立于身体想象心灵的
I couldn't--I can't imagine the body existing without the body. 如果心灵只不过是身体的另一种说法
If the mind is just a way of talking about the body, 我怎么能独立于身体想象心灵呢
how could I imagine the mind without the body? 由于我可以独立于身体而想象心灵
Since I can imagine the mind without the body, 才由此推出  二者是独立的
it follows that they're separate. 所以说心灵不是身体
So the mind is not the body after all. 它是某种不同的东西  是灵魂
It's something different. It's the soul. 这个论证好不好呢
Is that a good argument or not? 我们下节课就从这里开始
That's where we'll start next time. 



 Chapter 5: 灵魂存在与否的论证（四）：柏拉图（二）


在上次课的最后
At the end of last class, 我们开始简述一个
we started sketching an argument 来自笛卡尔的论证
that comes from Descartes, 或称为卡氏论证
the Cartesian argument, 这个论证说仅仅通过思考
that says merely by the process of thinking, 仅仅在思想的基础上
on the basis of thought alone, 它就能证明心灵
it tends to show that the mind-- 我们都承认有心灵
We all agree that there are minds. 这个论证尝试证明的就是
What the argument attempts to show is 这个心灵肯定和我的身体是不同的
that this mind must be something separate from my body. 这个论证令人吃惊的就是
And what's amazing about the argument is 它完全只靠思想实验
that it works on the basis of a pure thought experiment. 回忆一下 那个思想实验
The thought experiment, you recall, 在其中我想象
was one in which I imagine, 我给自己讲了一个故事
I tell myself a story in which 在这个故事里
what I'm doing is 我只是想象我的心灵独立于我的身体存在
I'm imagining my mind existing without my body. 似乎这么做不是很难
It doesn't seem especially difficult to do that. 但是随后我们加上了一个哲学性的前提
But then, we add this extra philosophical premise. 如果我能想象一个东西独立于另一个存在
If I can imagine one thing without the other, 那么这两个东西肯定是不同的
then it must be that those are two things. 所以我的心灵肯定不是我的身体
So my mind must not be my body. 我的心灵肯定和我的身体不是一回事
My mind must not be the same thing 也不是我的身体的另一种说法
as my body or a way of talking about my body, 因为如果我的心灵只是
because of course if my mind just was-- 谈论我的心灵只不过是
talking about my mind just was-- 谈论我的身体的另一种说法
a way of talking about my body, 那么要想象心灵存在而身体不存在
then to try to imagine my mind without 就像是想象没有身体而身体存在
my body would be trying to imagine my body without my body. 而这肯定是不可能的
And that, obviously, can't happen. 设想在某个世界里面
Look. Suppose we try to imagine a world in 薛立存在而卡根不存在
which Shelly exists but Kagan doesn't. 你做不到 不是吗
You can't, right? 因为很明显
Because of course, 它们是一个东西 薛立·卡根
they're just a single thing, Shelly Kagan. 所以如果想象了薛立存在
And so if you've imagined Shelly existing 那么当然你也就想象了那一个东西
then of course you're imagining that single thing, 薛立·卡根存在
Shelly Kagan, existing. 如果你想像卡根不存在
And if you imagine Kagan not existing, 那么你也就是在想象那个唯一的东西
then you're imagining that single thing, 薛立·卡根不存在
Shelly Kagan, not existing. 所以你甚至无法想象在一个世界里
So you can't even imagine a world in 薛立存在而卡根不存在
which Shelly exists but Kagan doesn't. 千万不要被这个搞糊涂了
Now, it's important not to be confused about this. 我们可以容易地想象一个世界里
We can easily imagine a world in which 我不姓卡根或者
I don't have the last name Kagan or perhaps 反过来
to switch it around, 我不叫薛立
Shelly's not my name. 假设我父母姓布鲁斯
Suppose my parents had named me Bruce. 问题还是一样的
Nothing would be easier. 想象在一个世界里卡根存在
Imagine a world in which Kagan exists, 而薛立不存在
but Shelly doesn't exist, 因为这个世界里面没人叫薛立
because nobody in the world is named Shelly. 问题并不在于
The question is not, 你能否想象我有另外一个名字
"Can you imagine me with a different name?" 简单地说  我叫布鲁斯而不是薛立
Bruce instead of Shelly, easy enough. 而是在于
It's rather, 你能不能想象在一个世界里
"Can you imagine a world in which the very thing 你用薛立这个名字
that you really are picking out 指的那个人
when you refer to me by the name Shelly-- 也就是这个东西
namely this thing-- 你能不能想象在一个世界里某个东西存在
can you imagine a world in which that thing exists, 而你用卡根这个词
but the thing that you're picking up 所指的这个东西却不存在
when you use the word Kagan does not exist?" 你不可能做到
And that you can't do, 因为在现实世界里
because in the real world of course Shelly 薛立和卡根指的是
and Kagan pick out just 同一个东西的两个不同名字
two different names of this very same thing. 就在这里的这个东西
This thing right here. 所以想象在一个世界里薛立存在
So imagining a world in which Shelly exists 而卡根不存在或者卡根存在而薛立不存在
but Kagan doesn't or Kagan exists but Shelly doesn't, 这就像是要想象在一个世界里
that's trying to imagine a world in 我存在而我不存在
which I exist but I don't. 这当然是矛盾的
And that's, of course, incoherent. 所以另一方面  如果你做得到
So if you can--On the other hand, contrast. 我能不能想象在一个世界里我的左手存在
Can I imagine a world in which my left hand exists, 而我的右手不存在
but my right hand doesn't? 很容易  为什么那么容易
Easy. Why is it so easy? 因为它们是两个不同的东西
Because of course there's two different things. 当然  这并不意味着
Of course, that doesn't mean 在现实世界里面其中一个存在
that in the real world one of them does exist 而另一个不存在
and the other one doesn't. 但是这表明
But it does show 在现实世界里它们是不同的东西
that in the real world they are two different things. 因此我才能想象在
That's why I could imagine 一个世界里只有其一存在
a world with one but not the other. 试图想象一个世界里某人的微笑存在
Try to imagine a world in which somebody's smile exists 而身体不存在
but their body doesn't. 你根本做不到
You can't do it. 你不可能没有身体而有微笑
You can't have the smile without the body. 当然 没什么神秘的
And of course, no mystery about that. 因为微笑并不是什么
That's because the smile isn't 独立于身体的东西
really some separate thing from the body. 谈论微笑
Talking about smiles, 像我们之前提到的
as we've noted before, 那只不过是谈论身体
is just a way of talking about either 或者身体的一部分
what the body can do 能做什么的一种说法
or what a certain area of the body can do. 你可以尝试想象
You can try to imagine it. 在《爱丽丝漫游仙境》里面
In Alice in Wonderland, 笑脸猫消失不见了而剩下的
the Cheshire Cat disappears and all we have left, 最后一个东西
the last thing that disappears, 就是微笑
is the smile. 但是当然
But of course, 当你想象笑脸猫只剩下微笑的时候
when you imagine the Cheshire Cat only having the smile there, 你仍然想象着它的嘴唇
you're still imagining the cat's lips, 牙齿 或许还有舌头
teeth, maybe tongue, 不管是什么
whatever it is. 如果你要相信一个没有身体的微笑
If you try to imagine a smile with no body at all, 那是根本做不到的 为什么呢
it can't be done. Why? 因为微笑并不是独立于身体存在的东西
Because the smile isn't something separate from the body. 试着不通过身体  笛卡尔说道
"Try to imagine my mind," Says Descartes, 来想象我的心灵
"Without my body." 这很容易
Easy. 因为我的心灵和我的身体
From which it follows that my mind 不是同一个东西
and my body must not be one thing. 它们事实上是两个东西
They must, in fact, be two things. 这也就是为什么我们能
That's why it's possible to 不借助其一想象另一个的原因
imagine the one without the other. 所以这个卡氏论证似乎给我们表明了
So this Cartesian argument seems to show us 心灵是独立于身体
that the mind is something separate from, 不同于身体
distinct from, 不能称作身体
not reducible to, 不是"我身体"的另一种说法
not just a way of talking about, my body. 所以心灵肯定是超出身体的额外东西
So it's got to be something extra above and beyond my body. 是灵魂
It's a soul. 这就是笛卡尔要证明的
That's what Descartes argued. 我说过  迄今为止
And as I say, to this day, 哲学家们对于这个论证是否正确很有争议
philosophers disagree about whether this argument works or not. 我认为它不正确
I don't think it does work 我会马上给出一个反例
and in a second I'll give you a counter example. 在给了这个反例之后
And then, having given the counter example 也就是说
That is to say, 我要给一个
what I'm going to give is 与之相似的论证的例子
an example of an argument just like it, 或者至少看起来
or at least an argument 与之类似的一个论证
that seems to be just like it 我们能够很容易地看到
where we can pretty easily see 那个论证是不正确的
that that argument doesn't work. 因此笛卡尔的论证肯定也有同样的问题
And so something must go wrong with Descartes' argument as well. 这个反例是这样的
Well, here's the counter example. 你们有些人 我肯定你们大部分人
Some of you, I'm sure most of you, 或许全部  很熟悉昏星
maybe all of you, are familiar with the Evening Star. 粗略说来  昏星就是
The Evening Star is the, roughly speaking, 天黑时第一个能看见的天体
first heavenly body that's visible in the sky as it gets dark, 至少在一年的某个时间段是这样
at least at certain times of the year. 我肯定你们也对晨星很熟悉
And I'm sure you're also familiar then with the Morning Star. 晨星就是
The Morning Star is 这样一个天体
that heavenly body which 它是黎明来临
is the last heavenly body 天快亮时  还能看到的
that's still visible as dawn comes in 最后一颗星星
and it begins to get light. 在最初
So as a first pass, 昏星是能看到的
the Evening Star is the first star 第一颗星  而晨星
that's visible and the Morning Star 是最后一颗
is the last star 当然是在每年的特定时段
that's visible at the right times of the year. 我们所在的世界既有昏星
The world that we live in has both the Evening Star 也有晨星
and the Morning Star. 但是尝试想象在一个世界里昏星存在
But try to imagine a world in which the Evening Star exists, 而晨星不存在
but the Morning Star does not. 这看来是很容易的  不是吗
Seems fairly straightforward, right? 黎明快来时  我起床
I get up in the morning as dawn's approaching. 我四周张望  没有看到晨星
I look around and the Morning Star is not there. 一颗星也没有
There is no star 无论是晨星曾经出现的地方或
where the Morning Star had been or 是人们曾断言晨星会出现的地方
where people have claimed it would be or something. 但是昏星仍然存在
But the Evening Star still exists. 当夕阳西下夜幕降临时  我走出去
When I go out as sun sets and dusk falls, 昏星就在那里
there is the Evening Star. 我说过
So, as I say, 显而易见  想象在一个世界里
it's a trivial matter to imagine a world 昏星存在
in which the Evening Star exists 而晨星不存在
and the Morning Star does not. 所以我们得到一个  我们可以想象一个
And so we've got a--we could imagine then a-- 笛卡尔式的论证
Descartes-like argument saying, 如果我能想象昏星存在而晨星不存在
"If I can imagine the Evening Star without the Morning Star, 这就证明了昏星
that shows the Evening Star 和晨星肯定是两个不同的天体
and the Morning Star must be two different heavenly bodies." 事实并非如此
But in fact, that's not so. 昏星和晨星
The Evening Star and the Morning Star 是同一个天体
are the very same heavenly body. 实际上它根本不是恒星
In fact, it's not a star at all. 它只是颗行星  金星  我没记错的话
It's a planet. It's Venus, if I recall correctly. 看啊  这里只有一个东西
So look, there's only one thing. 昏星就是金星
The Evening Star is Venus. 晨星也是金星
The Morning Star is Venus. 所以不可能有一个世界昏星存在
So there couldn't be a world in which the Evening Star exists, 而晨星不存在
but the Morning Star doesn't, 因为那意味着在那个世界里金星存在
because that would be a world in which Venus exists 而同时金星不存在
and Venus doesn't exist. 很明显  那是不可能的
Obviously, that's not possible. 你能想象的是  在某个世界里
Of course what you can imagine is a world 金星在早上是看不见的
in which Venus isn't visible in the morning. 但这并不是意味着
Still, that's not a world 晨星在这个世界不存在
in which the Morning Star doesn't exist, 如果给定了晨星的意思就是
given that what we mean by the Morning Star 一个这样的天体
is that heavenly object, 不管它到底是什么
whatever it is, 在这个世界上
that in this world 在早晨的那个时候我们仰望天空
we pick out at that time in the morning 就能看到的那个天体
looking up at the sky. 所以说  当我谈到晨星的时候
So when I refer to the Morning Star, 我就是在指金星
I'm talking about Venus, 不管怎么样  我认为那是金星
whether or not I realize it's Venus. 当我说到昏星的时候
When I talk about the Evening Star, 我指的也是金星
I'm referring to Venus, 不管怎么样  我认为
whether or not I realize 金星就是昏星
that Venus is the Evening Star. 所以  只要有金星
So as long as Venus is around, 就有昏星
well, there's the Evening Star, 哪里有晨星  哪里就有金星
there's the Morning Star, there's Venus. 不可能在某个世界里
You can't have a world 晨星不存在
in which the Morning Star doesn't exist 而昏星却存在
but the Evening Star does. 虽然  有可能在某个世界里
Although you could have a world 金星只是在白天没有出现
in which Venus doesn't show up in the morning. 事实上  我可以想象这样
Still, from the fact that I can imagine the world 我到处找晨星
in which I look around for the Morning Star-- 但是却找不到
there it isn't. 我找昏星
I look around for the Evening Star-- 却找到了
there it is. 由此你可能会想
You might have thought 这是不是就印证了笛卡尔向我们证明的
that showed--didn't Descartes prove to us that 昏星和晨星
that shows--the Evening Star 其实是两样不一样的东西
and the Morning Star are two different things? 错  当然不是了
Well no, obviously it didn't. 让我们来想一想这到底意味着什么
So let's think about what that means. 我们已经有了
So we've got this argument 笛卡尔给出的论证
that Descartes puts forward. 我可以想象我只有心灵而没有身体
I can imagine my mind without my body. 笛卡尔说这就证明了
And Descartes says that shows that, 我的心灵和我的身体是不同的东西
in fact, my mind is something separate from my body. 我可以想象只有晨星存在
Well, I can imagine the Evening Star 而昏星不存在
without the Morning Star, 于是笛卡尔的儿子
so Son of Descartes, 笛卡尔森 不得不说
"Descarteson," Has to say, 那就说明了晨星和昏星
"Oh, so that shows that the Morning Star 是两个不一样的东西
and the Evening Star are two different things." 但是  笛卡尔森说错了
But "Descarteson" Would be wrong when he says that. 晨星和昏星
The Morning Star and the Evening Star 不是不同的东西
aren't two different things. 它们就是一个东西  即金星
They're just one thing, namely Venus. 简而要之
In fact, the sentence, 它们是同一个东西
"They are one thing," 这有点歧义对吧
is slightly misleading, right? 应该说  金星  它只是一个东西
It's just one thing, Venus. 如果这个论证
If that argument, if the argument-- 如果把卡氏论证运用到天文学
If trying to run the Cartesian argument 是失败的
for astronomy fails, 看来我们也不得不承认
yet it seems to be an exactly analogous argument, 类似的那个证明心灵
we ought to conclude that the argument 和身体不同的那个论证
for the distinctness of the mind 必然也是失败的
and the body must fail as well. 在我看来  这样才对
Now, that seems to me to be right. 我认为笛卡尔论证的确是不成立
I think the Cartesian argument does fail. 而且我认为晨星
And I think the example of the Evening Star 和昏星的例子
and the Morning Star-- 这不是我原创的
which is not at all original to me-- 这个例子说明
that this example shows, 这个反例说明了
this counter example shows, 笛卡尔的原来的那个论证也行不通
that Descartes' original argument doesn't work either. 至少  在我看来行不通
At least, that's how it seems to me, 尽管像我说的
though as I say, 有些哲学家说过
there are philosophers that say, 不 不 那不对
"No, no. That's not right. 也许我们误解了这个论证到底怎么进行的
Maybe somehow we misunderstood how the argument goes 其实不是的
and it doesn't exactly-- 虽然这两个理论看上去是类似的
although these two arguments seem parallel, 但其实它们并不是类似的
they're not, in fact, parallel. 它们之间有非常微妙的不同
There's some subtle differences 如果我们不仔细去看的话
that if we're not looking carefully, 我们就会忽略
we'll overlook." 然而就像我说的  争论依旧
But, as I say, the debate goes on. 并不能确定这个论证是否成立
One of the reasons for thinking 的其中一个原因就是
it's not clear whether the argument fails or not 我们很难确定
is because it's hard to pin down, 到底是哪里出了问题
where exactly did it go wrong? 拿行星的论证
Look, take the argument of the planets, 晨星和昏星的那个例子来说
the Morning Star and the Evening Star example. 我想大家都同意
I take it that we all agree 当我们试图把卡氏论证
that when we attempt to run the Cartesian argument 用到晨星和昏星的例子上来时
in terms of the Morning Star and the Evening Star, 它行不通了  但是很难说我们哪里错了
it fails. But it's harder to say what went wrong? 它怎么会出错的  为什么会出错
How did it go wrong? Why did it go wrong? 有哪些可能性
What are the possibilities? 第一个要求  第一个前提
Well, we said, look, first claim, first premise. 我可以想象一个昏星存在
I can imagine a world in which the Evening Star exists, 而晨星不存在的世界
but the Morning Star doesn't. 我想可能会有人回应说
Well, I suppose one possible response would be, 你知道  你其实并不能真的那样做
"You know, you couldn't really do that. 你觉得你在想象一个
You thought you were imagining a world 昏星存在
in which the Evening Star exists 但晨星不存在的世界
and the Morning Star doesn't, 但你并没有真正地想象出
but you weren't really imagining a world 一个昏星存在
in which the Evening Star exists 而晨星却不存在的世界
and the Morning Star doesn't. 你谎报了你所想象的东西
You misdescribed what it is you've imagined." 谈论这个天文学例子
That's not a silly thing 并不是什么傻事
to say about the astronomy case. 也许这才是正确的判断
Maybe that's the right diagnosis. 我们可不可以简单地说
Could we similarly say, 我并没有真正想象到一个
"I didn't really imagine a world 我的心灵存在  但身体不存在的世界
in which my mind exists but my body doesn't"? 我上次讲的那个小故事
That little story I told last time, 我认为我在描述一个
I thought I was describing a world 我的心灵存在  但身体不存在的世界
in which my mind exists and my body doesn't, 而不是真的想象出那样一个世界
but it wasn't really imagining a world like that. 在那里  这么说好像不是很有说服力
That doesn't seem so persuasive over there. 我确实想象出来了
It did seem as though I was imagining it. 天文学的例子里  还有哪里可能出错呢
What else could go wrong with the astronomy example? 或许我想象这一个
Well, maybe I did imagine a world 晨星存在
in which the Morning Star exists 但昏星不存在的世界
and the Evening Star doesn't exist, 但也许想象并不表示可能
but maybe imagining doesn't mean it's possible. 通常来说  我们认为
Normally, we think, 如果我们想象一些东西
if we imagine something, 就意味这它是有可能的
it means it's possible. 当然  我这里不是指在经验上可能
Here I don't mean, of course, empirically possible. 我可以想象一个有独角兽的世界
I could imagine a world with unicorns. 但并不代表我认为独角兽真的可能存在
It doesn't mean I think unicorns are physically possible. 我这里所指的  都是指逻辑上的可能性
All we mean here is logically possible. 我可以想象一个有独角兽的世界
I can imagine a world with unicorns. 可以推测  独角兽在逻辑上是可能的
It seems to follow that unicorns are logically possible. 想象似乎是可能性的向导
Imagination seems to be a guide to possibility; 但也许并非总是
but maybe not always. 也许有时  我们可以想象
Maybe sometimes we can imagine something 一些完全不可能的事
that's really impossible. 试着去想象
Try to imagine-- 你可不可以这样
can you do that or can you not do that?-- 试着去想象一个圆的方形
try to imagine a round square. 你能想象吗
Can you imagine it? 你不能想象吗
Can you not imagine it? 在某些情况下
In certain moods, 我感觉我能想象出圆的方形
I sort of feel I can just begin to imagine it. 当然  这并不意味着那有可能
Of course, it doesn't really mean it's possible. 似乎那是不可能的
It seems like it's impossible. 也许想象是可能性的一个有缺陷的向导
So maybe imagination is a flawed guide to possibility. 所以  也许
So maybe that's 身体和心灵那个例子  我们该这么说
what we should say about the mind-body case. 是的  我可以想象在一个世界里
"Yeah, I can imagine a world 我的心灵存在  而我身体不存在
in which my mind exists but my body doesn't. 但这并不表示那是真正可能的
But that doesn't show that it's really possible, 在逻辑上可能有一个世界
logically possible to have a world 其中我的心灵存在而身体不存在
in which my mind exists and my body doesn't." 也许那个论证就错在这里
Maybe that's where the argument goes wrong. 另一方面
On the other hand, 想象是通向逻辑可能性的最好的向导吗
isn't imagination our best guide to logical possibility? 我认为
Isn't the reason 独角兽在逻辑上不矛盾的原因
I think unicorns are logically coherent is 不正是因为我能够轻易的想象它们吗
because I can imagine them so easily? 还有另一种可能
Another possibility. 也许我们应该说
Maybe we should say, A和B有可能不同
the mere fact that it's possible for A and B 比如 可能A存在
to be separate--for A to exist 而B不存在
without B for example, 这是它们明显的不同之处
that's clearly where they're separate-- 它们有可能不同
the mere fact that it's possible for 并不意味着
them to be separate doesn't mean 在现实世界它们也是不同的
that in the actual world they are separate. 也许这个论证就错在
Maybe the argument goes wrong by assuming 假设了同一性  即当A等于B的时候
that identity--when A is equal to B, 它总是等于B
it's always equal to B, 无论情况如何
no matter what. 也许同一性  就像哲学家喜欢说的
Maybe identity, as philosophers like to put it, 也许同一性是偶然的
maybe identity is contingent. 也许在这某个逻辑世界里
Maybe A could be the same thing A会和B是同一个东西
as B in this logically possible world, 但我们可以想象
but we could imagine 一个完全不同的另一个逻辑世界里
a completely different logically coherent world A和B不是同一个东西
in which A was not the same thing as B. 如果事实如此
If that's right, 那么结论该是
then maybe the conclusion should be 怎么说呢
"Well, you know, yeah, 笛卡尔的思想实验表明
the Cartesian thought experiment shows 可能存在某个世界
that there could be a world 其中存在着
in which there are minds 不同于身体的心灵
that are not identical to bodies. 但这并不意味着
But that doesn't mean 在现实世界中  我的心灵
that in this world the mind 和我的身体不一样
is not identical to my body. 也许在这个世界
Maybe in this world, 心灵和身体就是相同的
minds and bodies are identical, 即使在其他逻辑世界中
even though in other logically possible worlds 不存在这种同一性
the identity comes apart. 同一性不是必然的
Identity is not necessary, 而是偶然的  就像哲学家们常说的
but contingent, as the philosophers put it." 还不清楚这是不是对的
It's not clear that that's right either. 偶然同一性是很令人迷惑的
The notion of contingent identity is very puzzling. 毕竟  如果A真的是B
After all, if A really is B, 它们怎么可能分离呢
how could they come apart? 那儿就只有一个东西
There's only one thing there. 没什么可分的
There's nothing to come apart. 就只有A等于B  那一个东西
There's just A equals B, that single thing. 何来的分离
What's to come apart? 那么究竟这个论证哪里出问题了呢
So where exactly does the argument break down? 难道这不是我的想象
Is it that I'm not really imagining? 还是只是我以为我在想象罢了
I'm just thinking I'm imagining? 或者说想象并不是通向可能性
Is it that imagination's not really 的一个好向导
a good guide to possibility? 这是时常发生  而不是一直发生的吗
I just--Often it is, but not always. 同一性是偶然的吗
Is it that identity is contingent? 笛卡尔论证的奇妙之处在于
The interesting thing about Descartes' argument is 我们能明显感觉到
that it's easy to see something has gone wrong 晨星和昏星的例子中
in the case of the Morning Star 有些东西不对劲
and the Evening Star, 但很难确定
but it's difficult to pin down 错误到底在出哪里
what exactly went wrong. 很多哲学家都认为
Different philosophers agree 在晨星和昏星的例子中
that something's gone wrong in the Morning Star 的确存在错误
and the Evening Star case, 但是错误出在哪里
but disagree about the best diagnosis of 哲学家们却各执一词
where the mistake went in. 当你找到了一种判断这个论证
Armed with your pet diagnosis of 是否错误的方法时
where the argument goes wrong there, 你肯定会问
you've got to ask, 在心灵与身体的问题上
"Does it also go wrong 是不是也出了同样的错误
in the mind and body case?" 我们可以在这个问题上花更多的时间
Well, we could spend more time, 但是我并不打算这么做
but I'm not going to. 我认为笛卡尔的论证不成立
I think Descartes' argument fails. 晨星和昏星的例子
I think the Morning Star, 向我们表明了
Evening Star case shows us 像这样的论证
that arguments like this, 一般来说
at the very least, 不能轻信
can't be taken at face value. 仅仅是因为我们似乎能够
Just because it looks as though we can imagine it and just 想象到一个事物独立于
because it seems as though from the fact 另一个事物存在这件事
that we can imagine one without the other, 并不能说明
it just won't necessarily follow 在现实世界里  有这样两个
that we really do have two things 相互独立
that are separate 而且不相同的事物
and not identical in the real world. 就笛卡尔的论证到底错在哪儿的问题
I'd be happy to discuss with you, outside class, 我很愿意在课外
at greater length my favorite theories as 和你们详细谈谈
to where the argument goes wrong 我最信服的理论
and why I think it goes wrong 以及我个人的看法
in Descartes' case as well. 总之我认为笛卡尔的论证是有错误的
But I suggest that the argument goes wrong. 它是不正确的
It's not right. 所以  笛卡尔试图
And so, Descartes' attempt to 用他的卡式思想实验来证明
establish the distinctness of the mind, 心灵的独立存在性
the immateriality of the mind, 和非物质性
on the basis of this Cartesian thought experiment, 我认为这种尝试是失败的
I think that's unsuccessful. 我们已经花了--
Well, we've spent-- 让我们退一步
Let's step back 想想我们都讨论了些什么
and think of where we've been. 我们已经花了一周半
We've spent the last week and a half or so, 也许还多点  两周吧
maybe a bit more, two weeks, 来讨论证明灵魂存在的论证
talking about arguments for the existence of the soul. 我在课程还没正式开始的时候
And unsurprisingly-- since I announced this was going to 就已经说过了
be the result before the class had barely gotten started-- 我认为这些论证都站不住脚
I don't think any of these arguments work. 我认为  无论是试图证明
I believe the attempts to 灵魂作为一种非物质的东西
establish the existence of a soul, 而存在
an immaterial object, 还是证明心灵  这个意识的处所
the house of consciousness separate 独立于肉体
and distinct from the body, 我认为这些论证都不成立
I think those arguments fail. 但我想有些人可能
But I recognize that this is something 会不同意我的看法
that reasonable people can disagree about. 所以  我希望
And so this is, 大家能在课后
as will be many times the case 继续思考这个问题
over the course of this semester, 本学期我可能
something that I invite you to continue 会经常这样要求大家
to reflect on for yourself. 如果你相信灵魂是存在的
If you believe in a soul, 你的论证是什么
what's the argument for it? 那么  下面我们开始讲
Well, what we're about to turn to 柏拉图在斐多篇中
is Plato's discussion of these issues 就这些问题进行的讨论
in the dialogue the Phaedo, 上个星期我已经提到过
which, as I told you last week, 斐多篇的主要内容是
purports to lay out the final day's 苏格拉底在被杀前最后一天的谈话--
discussion with Socrates before 他其实是自杀的
he is killed by--he kills himself-- 他根据判决
by drinking the hemlock in accordance 喝下了毒芹汁而死
with the punishment that's been given to him. 在这段谈话中
Now, in the course of this discussion, 苏格拉底和他的学生们
Socrates and his disciples argue about 讨论的主要不是灵魂存在的问题
not so much the existence of the soul, 而是灵魂不朽的问题
but the question really is the immortality of the soul. 毕竟  就像我之前说过的
After all, even if you believe in a soul, 即使灵魂是存在的
as I have remarked previously, 那也不能说明
that doesn't give us yet any reason 灵魂在肉体死后
to believe the soul continues 仍然能继续存在下去
to exist after the death of your body. 我们在这门课里
The kind of dualist position 所讨论的二元论观点
that we are considering in this class 实际上是一种互动论的观点
is an interactionist position, 也就是认为灵魂可以控制肉体
where the soul commands the body. 是灵魂使我的手指动起来了
That's what makes my fingers move right now. 同时肉体又可以影响灵魂
And the body can affect the soul. 如果我戳自己的身体
If I poke my body, 我的心灵能感觉到
I feel it in my mind. 因此  心灵  即灵魂
So the mind, the soul, 和肉体明显是紧密联系的
and the body are obviously very tightly connected. 所以 很有可能
And so it could be-- 尽管灵魂是独立于肉体的
even if the soul is something separate from the body-- 但是  如果肉体死了  灵魂也就死了
that when the body dies, the soul dies as well. 正是这个问题引发了斐多篇中的谈话
That's the question that's driving the discussion in the Phaedo. 我们有什么理由去相信
Do we have any good reason to believe 灵魂在肉体死亡后仍能存活
the soul survives the death of the body? 确切地讲
And more particularly still, 我们有理由相信灵魂不朽吗
do we have good reason to believe it's immortal? 苏格拉底相信灵魂是不朽的
Socrates believes in the immortality of the soul. 所以  他试图捍卫他的观点
And so, he attempts to defend this position, 并试图说服  那些怀疑这一点的学生们
justify it to his disciples who are worried that it may not be true. 值得注意的是  当你们读这篇对话时
It's important to realize--as you read the dialogue, 会发现里面并没有
it becomes fairly apparent-- 多少篇幅很明显地
that there isn't so much any 论证灵魂的存在
defense of the belief in the soul. 当然有一些是
There's some of it, 但那不是这些对话的主要目的
but it's not the primary goal. 就大部分篇幅而言
For the most part, 这篇对话里将灵魂的存在
the existence of the soul 看作是理所当然的
is just taken for granted in the dialogue. 作为一个二元论者
Plato, as a dualist, 柏拉图理所当然地
portrays Socrates as being a dualist 把苏格拉底塑造成一个二元论者
and that's just taken for granted. 对话篇中哲学讨论所围绕的问题
The question that the philosophical discussion 并不是
turns on is not, 灵魂是否存在
"Is there a soul?" 而是  灵魂是否会在肉体死亡后存活
but rather, "Does it survive the death of the body? 灵魂是否是不朽的
Is it immortal?" 我已经说过了
Now, as I said, 这是苏格拉底在人世的最后一天
this is Socrates' last day on earth 你们肯定以为他很难过
and you'd expect him to be pretty bummed. 以为他很伤心
You'd expect him to be sad. 但是  奇怪的是
And one of the just striking things is 苏格拉底当时非常开心
that Socrates is in a very happy, 甚至兴奋地和他的朋友们开玩笑
indeed jovial, mood, joking with his friends. 这是为什么
Why is that? 当然  这是因为他认为
Well, of course, it's because he thinks, 首先  灵魂是存在的
first of all, there's a soul 在肉体死后仍会继续存在
and it will survive 而且灵魂是不朽的
and it's immortal. 更重要的是  当然前面几点也很重要
But more importantly still--those are all crucial 但是还有更重要的一点
but there's an extra ingredient as well-- 他觉得他有理由相信
he thinks he's got good reason to believe, 他死后他将去到一个
when he dies he's going to go, basically, 我们通常称为天堂的地方
to what we'd call heaven. 他认为有一个地方  住着众神
He thinks there's a realm populated by good gods 也许还住着和他志同道合的哲学家的灵魂
and maybe other philosophical kindred souls. 如果你打理好你在尘世中的一切
And if you got your stuff together here on life, 等你死了  你就能去到那儿了
you'll get to go to that when you die. 他当时很兴奋  很愉快
And so he's excited. He's pleased. 为什么他认为他死后将会去那儿呢
Why does he think he's going to go? 为了能够理解苏格拉底
Well, in thinking about Socrates' belief 关于灵魂存在的想法
in the existence of a soul, 我们应该去了解
it's important to understand, 去注意的是
it's important to notice, 他关于肉体所能做的
that his take on which stuff 事情的看法
gets assigned to the body, 也就是  哪些事是肉体负责的
what are the bodily things versus 哪些是灵魂负责的
what are the soul-like things, 苏格拉底的看法和
is rather different from the way, 我们今天的人的看法是不同的
I think, most of us nowadays would draw the line. 当我谈论证明灵魂
When I talked about arguments 存在的论证时
for the existence of a soul, 我说过  "这里有个可能的论证
I said, "Look, here's one possible argument. 我能看见颜色
I see colors. 没有哪种物质体能够
No physical object could, 没有哪种纯粹的物体能够看见颜色
no purely physical object could see colors. 我能尝到咖啡的味道
I can taste tastes 能闻到咖啡的气味  等等"
and have the smell of coffee and so forth." 但苏格拉底认为所有这些肉体上的感觉
But Socrates thinks all those bodily sensations-- 都是由肉体来负责的
that's all stuff that the body takes care of. 而现代的二元论者
So unlike those modern dualists 认为需要用非物质的东西
who think we need to appeal to something immaterial 来解释肉体上的感觉
in order to explain bodily sensations, 但苏格拉底不这么想
Socrates thinks no, no, 他认为肉体负责所有的肉体上的感觉
the body takes care of all the bodily sensations, 所有的欲望  需求  感情
all the desirings and the wantings and the emotions 感觉和渴望
and the feelings and the cravings. 那都是身体负责的事
That's all body stuff. 灵魂负责什么呢
What the soul does-- 苏格拉底认为  灵魂负责思考
Socrates thinks--the soul thinks. 从本质上说  灵魂是理性的
The soul, in its essence, is rational. 灵魂负责与思考有关的事情
It takes care of the thinking side of things. 灵魂都思考些什么呢
What does the soul think about? 当然了  灵魂能思考
Well, the soul thinks about 所有的事情
all sorts of things, doubtless. 但是  在灵魂能做的所有事情中
But one of the things that it can do, 我们会发现
one of the things 有一件事可以说是
that sort of provides the underpinnings, as we'll see, 柏拉图论证灵魂不朽的基础
for Plato's arguments for the immortality of the soul 这件事就是
is the soul can think about--; 灵魂能够思考
well, here I'll have to 在这里我要引入一个哲学术语
introduce a word of philosophical jargon. 有时候说  理念
Sometimes the idea, 有时候我们称为  理念
sometimes the term is called "Ideas." 有时候我们称为  型相
Sometimes the term is called "Forms." 他的基本想法就是
But the thought is that 灵魂能够思考纯粹的概念
the soul can think about certain pure concepts 或者说理念  比如正义本身
or ideas like justice itself, 或者美本身
or beauty itself, 或善本身
or goodness itself, 或健康本身
or health itself. 要解释这些
So to explain all this 我们现在得恶补一点柏拉图的形而上学
we need now a sort of crash course in Plato's metaphysics. 当然  这会是比较肤浅的介绍
Obviously, this will be rather superficial. 如果你们当中有谁想做更多的了解
Those of you who would like to know more about it, 我推荐去读柏拉图对话集
I recommend reading more Platonic dialogues 或者选修古代哲学课程
or taking a class in ancient philosophy. 下面我们介绍一下基本观点
But here's the basic idea. 在这个世界上存在各种美的事物
There's all sorts of beautiful objects in the world. 它们美的方式各不相同
Objects can vary in terms of how beautiful they are. 但是柏拉图认为
But Plato's got the idea 世界上不存在完美的事物
that there's nothing in this world that's perfectly beautiful. 尽管如此
And yet for all that, 我们都能够去思考美的本身
we can think about beauty itself. 换句话说 那就是
Well, we might put it this way. 我们可以说普通的  平凡的  日常的
We might say, ordinary, humdrum, everyday, 物理对象多少有点美
physical objects are somewhat beautiful. 它们只是片面的美
They're partially beautiful. 像柏拉图主义者有时说的那样
As, sometimes, Platonists put it, 它们"属于"美
they "Participate" In beauty. 它们美的程度不一样
They partake of beauty to varying degrees. 不能把其中任何一个与美本身混为一谈
But none of them should be confused with beauty itself. 或者以正义为例
Or, take justice. 存在各种不同的制度  社会制度
There are various arrangements, social arrangements, 它们在不同程度上是正义的或不正义的
that can be just or unjust to varying degrees. 但我们认为世界上无论哪里
But we don't think anywhere in the world 都不存在完全正义的社会
there's any society that's perfectly just. 虽然如此
Yet for all that, 但我们的心灵却可以思考完美的正义
the mind can think about perfect justice. 并且意识到普通的现实社会制度
And notice how ordinary empirical social arrangements 是多么的缺乏完美的正义
fall short of perfect justice. 所以无论完美的正义是什么
So whatever perfect justice is, 它不存在于经验世界中
it's not one more thing in the empirical world. 但它却是我们可以构想的东西
It's something we can think about. 它是以不同程度参与到
It's something that things in the empirical world 经验世界中的各种事物
can participate in or partake of to varying degrees. 但是我们不应该把可能正义的现实事物
But we shouldn't confuse the physical things which can be just, 比如  多少有些
the people who can be virtuous 德行的人
to one degree or another, 同完美的德性或完美的正义相混淆
with perfect virtue or perfect justice. 那仅仅是心灵可以设想的东西
That's something that only the mind can think about, 而在现实的经验世界中
that we don't actually have in the world, 却是不可能存在的
the empirical world itself. 或者以圆为例
Or take being round. 心灵可以构想出完美的圆形
The mind can think about perfect circularity. 然而任何物体都不是完美的圆形
But no physical object is perfectly circular. 只存在相对的圆的东西
There are only things that are circular to a greater or lesser degree. 所以  通过思考这个问题
So, by thinking about it, 通过思考以上那些问题
by thinking about these kinds of issues, 我们可以知道
we can see that the mind 心灵可以一定程度上理解完美
has some kind of handle on these perfect, 我需要一个词
well, we need a word. 我说过  柏拉图给出了一个词  理念
And as I say, Plato gives us a word, "Ideas." 有时候翻作理念或型相
Sometimes it's translated as "Ideas" Or "Forms." 我们构想出的这些东西是样板
These things that we can think about that are the template, 至少是标准
or at least the standard, 或最起码它是
or maybe at the very least it's that 普通的事物能以不同程度参与的东西
which the ordinary humdrum things can participate in to varying degrees: 如 完美的正义
perfect justice, 正义本身
justice itself, 美本身
beauty itself, 善本身
goodness itself, 圆本身
circularity itself, 健康本身
health itself. 以上这些
All of these things are, 被当今的哲学家称作柏拉图式的型相
as philosophers nowadays call them, Platonic forms. 现实世界的普通物体
Ordinary material objects of this world 能够分有各种各样的型相
can partake of the various Platonic forms, 但不能把它们同型相混为一谈
but they should not be confused with the Platonic forms. 尽管在这个世界上无法遇到型相
But we still-- even though we don't bump into the Platonic 但是我们仍能去设想
forms in this world-- we can think about them. 我们的心灵多少能掌握一些
Our mind has a kind of grasp of them. 但问题在于
Of course, the problem is, 在这个普通寻常的世界上
we're distracted by the comings and goings, 来往喧嚣吸引了我们的注意力
the hurly burly of the ordinary everyday world. 我们无法对柏拉图式的型相有深入了解
And so we don't have a very good grasp of the Platonic forms. 我们可以去设想它们
We're able to think about them, 却无法集中注意力
but we're distracted. 哲学家试图要做的是
What the philosopher tries to do-- 至少苏格拉底认为
this is Socrates' thought, 或是柏拉图借苏格拉底之口表达这个观点
or Plato's thought that he puts in Socrates' mouth-- 哲学家的目的就是
what the philosopher tries to 把自己从肉体的干扰中解放出来
do is free himself from the distractions 比如对食物的欲望
that the body poses--the desire for food, 对性的渴望
the craving for sex, 对痛苦的担忧
being concerned about pain. 所有这些
All this stuff, 还有对享乐的追求
hungering after pleasure, 所有这些都妨碍人们思考柏拉图式的型相
all this stuff gets in the way of thinking about the Platonic forms. 所以 哲学家们
What the philosopher tries to do, 为了全神贯注于这些理想事物
then, so as to better focus on these ideal things, 就要忽略肉体  撇开肉体
is to disregard the body, put it aside, 尽可能地分离精神和肉体
separate his mind as much as possible from it. 苏格拉底曾说他一直都在做这种努力
That's what Socrates says he's been trying to do. 正因为如此
And so because of that, 他更好地理解了这些理想型相
he's got a better handle on these ideal forms. 而且  他认为
And then, he believes, 当死亡来临
when death comes and the final separation 当精神和肉体最终分离时
occurs of the mind and the body, 他的精神可以飞升
his mind gets to go up, 他的灵魂可以升至天界
his soul gets to go up to this heavenly realm. 当今的哲学家称之为 柏拉图的天堂
Philosophers nowadays call it "Plato's heaven." 他可以飞升至柏拉图的天堂
He gets to go up to Plato's heaven 在那里他可以更直接地
where he can have more direct 接触到型相
contact with these things, with the forms. 我现在没有时间
Now, I don't have the time here 来做更多的阐述以说明
to say enough to try and make it clear 为什么这个柏拉图式的形而上学观点
why this Platonic metaphysical view 不仅值得认真对待
is a view that not only is worth taking seriously, 而且直至今日  许多哲学家都认为
but to this day, many, many philosophers think that, 它的基本构架一定是正确的
at least in it's basic strokes, must be right. 不管怎样  先给你们举个例子
But let me at least give you one example 或许能帮你们稍作了解
that may give you a feel for it. 以数学为例
Think of math. 举些简单的数学论断
Think of some simple mathematical claim 如2 + 2 = 4
like 2 + 2 = 4. 当我们说2+2=4或2+3=5时
When we say that 2 + 2 = 4 or 2 + 3 = 5, 我们是在讨论心灵可以掌握的数字
we're saying something about numbers that our mind is able to grasp. 但究竟什么是数字呢
But what are numbers anyway? 它们当然不是实际的物体
They're certainly not physical objects. 你不会在某一天
It's not as though someday 打开一本国家地理时
you're going to open up an issue of National Geographic 发现上面会印着这样的封面故事
where the cover story's going to be "At long last, 探险家们终于发现了数字2
explorers have discovered the number two." 数字2不是
It's not as though the number two is something 你能看到或听到或尝到或遇到的东西
that you see or hear or taste or could bump into. 不管数字2是什么
Whatever the number two is, 它是心灵可以掌握的东西
it's something that our mind can grasp 而在物质世界中却不存在
but isn't actually in the physical world. 这是柏拉图式对数学的理解
That's the Platonic take on mathematics. 心灵可以去设想数字
There are numbers. The mind can think about them. 事物可以分有它们
Things can partake of them. 如果我拿起两张纸
If I were to hold up two pieces of paper, 便有这样一层含义  即
there's a sense in which 这两张纸分有了 二性
they are participating in "Twohood." 但显然  数字2并不在这里
But of course, this is not the number two here. 要是我把这些纸撕碎
If I were to rip these pieces of paper, 数字2并没有被我给损毁了
I wouldn't be destroying the number two. 因而  数字2  数字3
So the number two, the numbers, three, 不管它们是什么
whatever it is, whatever they are, 至少它们都是不存在于时空中的
are these Platonic abstract entities 柏拉图式的抽象实体
that don't exist in space and time. 尽管如此
Yet, for all that, 心灵都可以去构想他们
the mind can think about them. 这就是这种观点
That's the idea. 它并不愚蠢
And it's not a silly idea. 似乎对于数学的解释
It seems like a very compelling account of 这是一种很有说服力的说法
what's going on in mathematics. 数学家所做的就是用他们的心灵
What mathematicians are doing is using their mind 来思考那些数学的柏拉图理念
to think about these Platonic ideas of mathematics. 柏拉图认为
Except Plato's thought was, 任何事物都是这样
everything is like that. 不仅数学如此
It's not just math, 正义本身也是如此
but justice itself is like that. 世上有正义或非正义的事物
There are just or unjust things in the world. 心灵可以去设想它们
The mind can think about them, 但是正义本身
but justice itself--this perfect, 即完美的正义这个理念
this idea of being perfectly just-- 它是可以用心灵去把握的
that's something the mind can think about, 尽管在现实世界里不存在
but it's not here in the world. 它是另一种抽象的柏拉图式的型相
It's another abstract Platonic form. 这就是整个构想
So that's the picture. 柏拉图的观点是
Plato's idea is that 如果我们对形而上学有充分的研究
if we start doing enough metaphysics, 就必能看到柏拉图式的
we can see there must be this 理念或是型相组成的世界
realm of Platonic ideas, Platonic forms. 同时看到我们能够用心灵
And we can see that we are able to grasp them 去掌握它们
through the mind. 这是身体做不到的
This can't be a job the body does, 因为身体仅有其肉体性的功能  不是吗
because the body's only got its bodily capacities, right? 它只能执行五官的功能
It's able to do the five-senses thing. 是灵魂在思考柏拉图式的型相
It's the soul that thinks about the Platonic forms. 给出了心灵能做什么这一设想之后
And as Plato's then going to go on to try to argue, 柏拉图想要进一步证明
given this picture of what the mind can do, 他认为他可以说服我们相信心灵  灵魂
he thinks he can persuade us that the mind, the soul, 不仅能在肉体死亡时幸免于难
not only survives the death of your body, 而且恒久不灭
but will last forever. 它是完美的
It's perfect. 它是非物质的  不会被毁灭
It's immaterial and can't be destroyed. 它是不朽的
It's immortal. 因而他给出一系列论证
So he offers a series of arguments 来证明这个结论
for that conclusion, 证明这个立场
for that position, 下节课开始
and starting next time, 我们将讨论这些论证
we'll work our way through those arguments. 



 Chapter 6: 柏拉图 (二) ：灵魂永恒与否的论证


我们开始讨论
We've begun to turn to 柏拉图的对话录《斐多篇》了
Plato's dialogue Phaedo, 上一节课  我们简单的
and what I started doing last time was sketching 讲了《斐多篇》形而上学的要点
the basic outlines of Plato's metaphysics-- 没必要做太深入的研究
not so much to give a full investigation of that-- 这里我们也不需要那样做
clearly we're not going to do that here-- 只要对《斐多篇》中形而上学观点的
but just to provide enough of the essential outlines 核心概述有足够的了解
of Plato's metaphysical views 我们就可以理解
so that we can understand the arguments 《斐多篇》后面的观点
that come up later in the Phaedo, 基本上所有的或者说诸多的这些先决条件
basically all of which or many of which presuppose something-- 都是柏拉图形而上学观点的重要基石
certain central aspects about Plato's metaphysical views. 他的形而上学背后的关键点是
The key point behind his metaphysics then was the thought that, 除了我们都熟悉的
in addition to the ordinary empirical physical world 现实世界
that we're all familiar with, 我们必须假定某种第二领域的存在
we have to posit the existence of a kind of second realm, 这存在于柏拉图的
in which exist the Platonic-- 那些如今被称作为
as they're nowadays called-- 柏拉图型相或柏拉图理念中
the Platonic forms or Platonic ideas. 这类事物
The sort of thing 我们可能需要称作或认为是抽象的现实
that perhaps we might call or think of as abstract objects 或抽象的性质
or abstract properties. 我们假定这些的原因是
And the reason for positing these things is 这样我们就能够清楚的
because we're clearly able to 去思考这些理念
think about these ideas, 目前我们认识到在正常的现实世界中
and yet, we recognize that the ordinary physical world-- 尽管很多东西或多或少的参与其中
although things may participate in them to varying degrees-- 我们并不会在现实世界中
we don't actually come across these objects 直接面对这些对象或者个体
or entities in the physical world. 我们可以探讨
So that we can talk about 事物的不同程度的美丽
things being beautiful to varying degrees, 但是我们从不在现实世界中
but we never come across 直接碰到"美丽"这个东西
beauty itself in the actual empirical world. 我们可与去探讨
We are able to talk about 二加一等于三的这个事实
the fact that two plus one equals three, 但是我们不可能有一天真的碰到数字
but it's not as though we ever come across numbers-- 在现实世界中碰到个叫"数字三"的东西
number three itself--anywhere in the empirical world. 更进一步  使现实世界和这个所谓的
A further point that distinguishes the empirical world from this-- 柏拉图的理念世界的区别
this realm of Platonic ideal objects-- 在于那个世界中有些东西是完美的
is that indeed they-- there's something perfect about them. 它们不会改变
They don't change. 相比之下
In contrast, 现实的东西是在不断地发生变化的
physical objects are constantly changing. 一个事物可能在某一时刻很矮
Something might be short at one point 然后在另一时刻又会变高
and become tall at another point, 某一时刻很丑  然后变得很美
ugly at one point and become beautiful-- 就像丑小鸭一样
like the ugly duckling. 开始很丑  然后变成一只美丽的天鹅
It starts out ugly and becomes a beautiful swan. 相比之下  公正本身不会改变
In contrast, justice itself never changes. 美丽本身不会改变
Beauty itself never changes. 我们认为这些事物是永恒的
We have the thought that these things are eternal, 而且  与现实的世界相比
and indeed, beyond change, 它超越了变化
in contrast to the empirical world. 如果你开始更多的
In fact, if you start thinking more 从这个观点去思考这个世界
about the world from this perspective, 我们生存的世界是很疯狂的
the world we live in is crazy. 它几乎是出奇的矛盾
It's almost insanely contradictory. 柏拉图认为这种疯狂就像是做梦一样
Plato thinks of it as crazy in the way that a dream is. 当你被卷入梦中时
When you're caught up in the dream, 你不会意识到它有多疯狂
you don't notice just how insane it all is. 但当你退一步  仔细回想
But if you step back and reflect on it, 让我想想
"Well, let's see, 我当时在吃三明治  然后突然
I was eating a sandwich and suddenly 三明治变成了自由女神像
the sandwich was the Statue of Liberty, 不过这个女神是我的母亲
except the Statue of Liberty was my mother. 她正跃过海洋
And she's flying over the ocean, 但是她其实只是根意大利面条
except she's really a piece of spaghetti." 这就是梦
That's how dreams are. 当你置身其中  好像一切都顺理成章
And when you're in it, it sort of all makes sense. 你被卷入其中了
Right? You're kind of caught up, 但当你退出来时会说
but you step back and say, "真是太疯狂了"
"That's just insane." 柏拉图认为
Well, Plato thinks 现实的世界也是类似的疯狂
that the empirical world has something of that kind of insanity, 这其中有一种矛盾性
something of that kind contradictoriness, 但我们身在其中一般不会注意到
built into it that we don't ordinarily notice. 他是个篮球运动员
"He's a basketball player, 所以他长的很高很高
so he's really, really tall, 但是只有6英尺[1.8米]
except he's only six feet. 所以作为篮球运动员  他又很矮很矮
So he's really, really short for a basketball player. 这是只大象宝宝
This is a baby elephant, 所以它很大很大
so it's really, really big-- 但是它只是个大象宝宝
except it's a baby elephant, 所以它其实又很小很小
so it's really, really small." 这个世界就这样不断的左右摇摆
The world is constantly rolling-- 这是种柏拉图式的表达
this is a Platonic expression-- 型相间的来回摇摆
rolling between one form and the other. 而且很难讲清其中的道理
And it's hard to make sense of. 相比之下
In contrast, 心灵反而能够认知到柏拉图理念
the mind is able to grasp the Platonic ideas, 柏拉图型相
the Platonic forms; 它们是稳定的  可靠的  它们是
and they're stable, they're reliable, they are-- 它们如同法律  我们可以领会它们
they're law-like and we can grasp them. 它们不会改变  它们是永恒的
They don't change; they're eternal. 这就是柏拉图式的理念结构
That's, as I say, the Platonic picture. 我的目的不是
Now, it's not my purpose here 试图去辩护或者反对
to try to argue for or against 柏拉图哲学中的抽象实体这个概念
Platonism with regard to abstract entities. 就像我上次用数学举例一样
As I suggested in talking about the example of math last time, 即便这不是一个我们都能接受的观点
it's not a silly view, even if it's not a view 这也不一定是个愚蠢的观点
that we all take automatically. 但在用数学的方式进行思考时
But in thinking about math, 我们都倾向于变成柏拉图主义者
most of us are inclined to be Platonists. 我们都相信有些东西
We all do believe something makes it true 使2加1等于3是正确的
that two plus one equals three, 但这不是说现实的东西
but it's not the fact that empirical objects-- 我们不会在现实中做实验
We don't do empirical experiments 去看看二加一是不是等于三
to see whether two plus one equals three. 我们认为
Rather, we think 我们的心灵可以去领会数字中的真理
our mind can grasp the truths about numbers. 柏拉图认为万事万物都是如此
Plato thought everything was like that. 我不会去主张或反对这个观点
Well, I'm not going to argue for and against that view-- 只是想简述给你们
just wanted to sketch it, 以便去理解那些在此基础上的论点
so as to understand the arguments that turn on it. 所以为了我们的目的
So for our purposes, 让我们假设柏拉图是对的
let's suppose Plato was right about that and ask, 然后呢
what follows? 柏拉图认为接下来
Well, Plato thinks what's going to follow is 我们就有理由去相信
that we have some reason to believe in 灵魂的不朽
the immortality of the soul as, again, 就像我们上次指出的
as we indicated last time, 它的中心思想是心灵  灵魂
the picture is that the mind--the soul-- 可以去认知
is able to grasp 这些柏拉图的型相  理念
these eternal Platonic forms, the ideas. 通常我们对这些东西的思考
Typically, we're distracted from thinking about them 被身体的一些需求打乱了
by the distractions provided by the body-- 比如对食物  饮料  性  睡眠的欲望
the desire for food, drink, sex, what have you, sleep. 但是通过脱离肉体的自身因素
But by distancing itself from the body, the mind, 心灵和灵魂就可以更好的专注于那些型相
the soul, is able to better concentrate on the forms. 如果你善于这样做
And if you're good at that, 如果你在活着的时候练习
if you practice while you're alive, 把你自己与肉体分离
separating yourself from the body, 那么当你的身体死去
then when your body dies, 心灵就可以前往那个柏拉图的极乐世界
the mind is able to go up to this Platonic heavenly realm 与上帝及其他的不死圣灵沟通
and commune with gods and other immortal souls 并一起思考那些型相
and think about the forms. 但假如你没有
But if you've not 在活着时让心灵从身体中抽离
separated yourself from the body while in life, 如果你太过于陷入身体的渴求
if you're too enmeshed in its concerns, 在你死后
then upon the death of 你的灵魂会被吸回这个世界上
your body your soul will get sucked back in, 可能会转世  进入另一个肉体
reincarnated perhaps, in another body. 幸运的话  转世为人
If you're lucky, as another person; 如果不幸运的话
if you're not so lucky, 可能会变成猪  驴  蚂蚁等等
as a pig or a donkey or an ant or what have you. 所以你的目标  柏拉图说
So your goal, Plato says, 你的目标应该是
your goal should be, 活着时  练习
in life, to practice death-- 把心灵从身体分离出来
to separate yourself from your body. 因此
And because of this, 苏格拉底在面对死亡时
Socrates, who's facing death, 并不哀伤  反而很高兴
isn't distressed at the prospect, but happy. 他很高兴这最后的分离终于要发生了
He's happy that the final separation will take place 这样他就可以去天堂了
and he'll be able to go to heaven. 对话在死亡场景中结束
The dialogue ends, of course, with the death scene-- 此时苏格拉底已经被雅典人宣判死刑
Socrates has been condemned to death by the Athenians, 对话在他喝毒药的时候结束
and it ends with his drinking the hemlock, 他并不哀伤  反而有点快乐
not distressed but rather sort of joyful. 然后对话以一个
And the dialogue ends with one of 西方文明史上最伟大感人的死亡场景结束
the great moving death scenes in western civilization 用柏拉图的话说
and as Plato says-- 让我们引用的更准确些
let's get the quote here exactly right-- 在我们所知的所有人中
"Of all those we have known, 他是最好  最有智慧  最正直的人
he was the best and also the wisest and the most upright." 我想让你们注意
Just before the death scene, 在这个死亡场景之前
there's a long myth, 有一个古老的传说
which I draw your attention to 但我不想去讨论任何的细节
but I don't want to discuss in any kind of detail. 柏拉图说  它是个故事  是个传说
Plato says it's a story; it's a myth. 他想说明有些事
He's trying to indicate that there are things 我们并不能通过科学来理解
that we can't really know in a scientific way 但我们能知道一点
but we can glimpse. 那个传说与我一直形容的
And the myth has to do with these sort of pictures 这个大局有关
I was just describing 我们并不真正生活在地表
where we don't actually live on the surface 生活在阳光里
of the Earth of in the light, 而是生活在某种暗无天日的黑洞中
but rather live in certain hollows in the dark 一个我们都误解了现实本质的地方
where we're mistaken about the nature of reality. 你们中的那些
Some of you 对柏拉图稍晚些的《理想国》对话录
who are maybe familiar with Plato's later dialogue 熟悉的同学会知道  起码我认为
The Republic may recognize at least what seems to me, 我们这里讲的是预示着洞穴的那个传说
what we have here, is a foreshadowing of the myth of the cave, 或者洞穴的寓言
or the allegory of the cave, 柏拉图在(其他对话录里)也描述过
which Plato describes there as well. 我们关心的是
Our concern is going to be the arguments 这个对话录核心的论点
that make up the center of the dialogue. 因为在对话录的核心部分中
Because in the center of the dialogue, 苏格拉底在死前与他的朋友争论时说
before he dies, Socrates is arguing with his friends. 苏格拉底说
Socrates is saying, "Look, 我不担心  我会得到永生的
I'm not worried. I'm going to live forever." 而他的学生和朋友们
And his disciples and friends 都担心这到底是不是真的
are worried whether this is true or not. 所以这部对话录的核心
And so the heart of the 是由一系列的讨论组成的
dialogue consists of a series of arguments 其中苏格拉底试图摆出他的原因
in which Socrates attempts to lay out his reasons 让人相信灵魂是不朽的
for believing in the immortality of the soul. 这也是我们要关心的
And that's going to be our concern. 我要做的是
What I'm going to do is 基本上是重新
basically run through my attempt to reconstruct-- 把柏拉图给我们的这4  5个论点中
my attempt to lay out the basic ideas 一些基本的观点拿出来讨论一遍
from this series of four or five arguments that Plato gives us. 我会批判他们
I'm going to criticize them. 我不认为它们行得通
I don't think they work, 在此我得声明
though I want to remark before I turn to them 说这些话时
that in saying this 我并不一定是在批判柏拉图
I'm not necessarily criticizing Plato. 因为我们将看到
As we'll see, 一些后期的观点似乎是专门用来
some of the later arguments seem to be deliberately 回答那些反驳
aimed at answering objections 尤其是针对我们之前讲的那些观点的意见
that we can raise to some of the earlier arguments. 所以说不定柏拉图认识到
And so it might well be that Plato himself recognized 最初的论点
that the initial arguments 并不是他所需要的那样强有力
aren't as strong as they need to be. 柏拉图写下这些对话录
Plato wrote the dialogues 是为了将其作为一种助学方法
as a kind of learning device, 作为一种帮助读者
as a tool to help the reader 更好的掌握哲学的工具
get better at doing philosophy. 它们不一定是很系统的
They don't necessarily represent in a systematic fashion 不是说柏拉图已经
Plato's worked out axiomatic 提出了一套系统的哲学自然理论
views about the nature of philosophy. 有可能是柏拉图有意的
It could be that Plato's deliberately 在早期理论中犯下一些错误
putting mistakes in earlier arguments 从而鼓励你们去独立思考
so as to encourage you to think for yourself, 这个论点有问题
"Oh, this is--here's a problem with this argument. 我有反驳它的理由
There's an objection with that argument." 其中一部分  柏拉图后来可能会解释
Some of these, Plato then may address later on. 但是不论他有没有涉及那些
But whether or not he does address them-- 如果我们束缚自己  而只是去
we're not doing Plato any honor, 揣测柏拉图的真实想法的话
we're not doing him any service, 我们不仅对柏拉图的不尊重
if we limit ourselves to simply trying to grasp, 也没有给予他任何帮助
here's what Plato thought. 我们可以做思想史研究  然后阐述说
We could do the history of ideas and say, 这是柏拉图的观点
"Here's Plato's views. 它们不是很有趣吗
Aren't they interesting? 注意它们是如何不同于亚里士多德的观点
Notice how they differ from Aristotle's views. 不是很有趣吗
Aren't they interesting?" 然后以这种方式一直下去
And move on like that. 但是这不是
But that's not 那些哲学家想让我们做的事
what the philosophers wanted us to do. 这些伟大的哲学家们做出了论证
The great philosophers had arguments that they were putting forward 来使我们相信
to try to persuade us 他们观点的正确性
of the truths of their positions. 因此对一位哲学家表示尊敬的方式应该是
And the way you show respect for a philosopher is by taking 认真地对待他们的论证  并且问你自己
those arguments seriously and asking yourself, 那些论证是否说的通
do they work or not? 所以不管通过苏格拉底之口
So whether or not the views 说出来的理论是否被认为是
that are being put forward in Socrates' mouth are the considered, 体现了柏拉图的本意
reflective judgments of Plato or not, 但对于我们来说  姑且当作是
for our purposes we can just act as though 柏拉图本人提出的论证
they were the arguments being put forward by Plato, 然后问自己
and we can ask ourselves, 这些论证是否能证明其观点
"Do these arguments work or don't they?" 我先简单地说一下
So I'm going to run through 这一系列的论证
a series of these arguments. 就像我之前提及的一样
I'm going to, as I've mentioned before, 我对此要比之前的
be a bit more exegetical 阅读资料解释的更多一些
than is normally the case for our readings. 我会时不时停下来
I'm going to actually pause, 看看我的笔记  以确保
periodically look at my notes and make sure 我记得我自己对柏拉图论证的理解
I'm remembering how I think Plato understands the arguments. 由于仅仅是对话
Of course, since the dialogue is indeed a dialogue, 我们不会看到一长串
we don't always have the arguments laid out 有前提和结论的论证
with a series of premises and conclusions. 所以总有很多要解释的东西
And so it's always a matter of interpretation, 怎样才是对他所倾向的
what's the best reconstruction 做到最好的重构
of the argument he's gesturing towards. 我们怎样才能
How can we turn it into 把一个论证变得具有前提和结论呢
an argument with premises and conclusions? 这就是我们要尝试的事情
Well, that's what I'm going to try to do for us. 同时我将命名那些论证
Also going to give the arguments names. 这些名字不是柏拉图起的
These are not names that Plato gives, 但是这能方便我们
but it will make it easy for us 在逐一推进的时候粗略地了解一下
to get a fix, roughly, on the different arguments 这些不同论证的定义
as we move from one to the next. 第一个论证
So the first argument, 同时也是使后面的对话得以进行的担忧是
and the worry that gets the whole things going, is this. 我们这有一个柏拉图式的场景
So, we've got this nice Platonic picture 柏拉图说
where Plato says, 心灵可以认知永恒的型相
"All right. So the mind can grasp the eternal forms, 但是它必须先从肉体中解脱出来
but it has to free itself from the body to do that." 所以  那些
And so, the philosopher, 已经为灵魂脱离肉体
who has sort of trained 以及忽视自己的肉体欲望
himself to separate his mind from his body, 做好准备的哲学家
to disregard his bodily cravings and desires-- 将会欢迎死亡的到来
the philosopher will welcome death 那时他会真正地  最终地
because at that point he'll truly, finally, 从自己的肉体中解脱出来
make the final break from the body. 在对话中的这个阶段
And the obvious worry that gets raised in the dialogue 一个明显的担忧就是
at this point is this: 我们怎么知道
How do we know 当肉体死亡的时候
that when the death of the body occurs 灵魂不会随之被摧毁
the soul doesn't get destroyed as well? 这个是很自然的担忧
That's the natural worry to have. 也许我们需要做的是
Maybe what we need to do 尽可能地把我们
is separate ourselves as much as possible 和肉体对我们的影响分开
from the influence of our body 但是又不能真的彻底分开
without actually going all the way and breaking the connection. 你可以想象一个橡皮筋
If you think about it like a rubber band, 也许把它伸展得越长越好
maybe the more we can stretch the rubber band the better; 但是你把它伸展得过长  以至绷断
but if you stretch too far and the rubber band snaps, 那就不好  那很糟糕
that's not good, that's bad. 也就是说
It could be that 我们或许需要肉体以继续思考
we need the body in order to continue thinking. 我们想把自己从肉体的干扰中解放出来
We want to free ourselves from the distractions of the body, 但是我们不能让肉体死亡
but we don't want the body to die, 因为当肉体死去的时  灵魂也会同样消亡
because when the body dies the soul dies as well. 就像以前一样
Even if we are dualists, 即使我们是二元论者
as we've noticed before 认为灵魂是不同于肉体的
even if the soul is something different from the body 但从逻辑上来说  仍然可能出现
it could still be the case, logically speaking, 假如肉体死去
that if the body gets destroyed 灵魂也随之消亡的情况
the soul gets destroyed as well. 于是苏格拉底的朋友们就问他
And so, Socrates' friends ask him, 如何才能使我们确信
how can we be confident 灵魂会在肉体的消亡中幸存
that the soul will survive the death of the body 并且是真正的永生的呢
and indeed be immortal? 这就催生了一系列的论证
And that's what prompts the series of arguments. 我给第一个论证起的名字是
Now, the first such argument I dub "型相本质论"
"The argument from the nature of the forms." 这个基本的思想很简单
And the basic thought is fairly straightforward. 理念或者型相
The ideas or the forms 如正义  美丽  美德之类
justice itself, beauty itself, goodness itself 它们并不是物理实体
the forms are not physical objects. Right? 我们根本不可能撞见正义本身
We don't ever bump into justice itself. 我们可能遇见或多或少有点正义的社会
We bump into societies that may be more or less just, 或多或少有点正义的个人
or individuals who may be more or less just, 但是我们决不会撞见正义本身
but we never bump into justice itself. 数字三也不是一个物理实体
The number three is not a physical object. 美好本身也不是
Goodness itself is not a physical object. 正圆也不是
Perfect roundness is not a physical object. 因此  粗略地讲
Now, roughly speaking, 苏格拉底似乎认为
Socrates' seems to think 这就很明确地说明了
it's going to follow straightforwardly from that 灵魂也必须是非现实的东西
that the soul must itself be something non-physical. 如果型相不是物理实体
If the forms are not physical objects, 那么苏格拉底认为他们不可被认知
then Socrates thinks it follows they can't be grasped. 我们当然能想象型相
We can certainly think about the forms, 但假如他们是非现实的
but if they're non-physical 他们将不能被现实的事物
they can't be grasped by something physical 比如肉体  所认知
like the body. 他们只能被
They've got to be grasped 非现实的事物认知  比如灵魂
by something non-physical--namely, the soul. 不过虽然那是
But although that's, I think, 苏格拉底思路走向
the sketch of where Socrates wants to go, 我认为它没有提供太多我们想要的
it doesn't quite give us what we want. 一方面  即使
On the one hand, even if it were true 灵魂必须是非现实的
that the soul must be non-physical 以便来认知非现实的型相
in order to grasp the non-physical forms, 也没法推导出
wouldn't follow that 灵魂可以在肉体死亡之后存活
the soul will survive the death of the body. 那是我们刚才在思考的问题
That's the problem we've been thinking about for the last minute. 并且一些事情也具有迷惑性
And there's something puzzling. 我们可能会想
We might wonder, well, 为什么肉体就不能认知型相
just why is it that the body can't grasp the forms? 所以这有一个完整版的论证
So there's a fuller version of the argument 那才是我想要着重说明的
that's the one I want to focus on. 我把它写在了黑板上
And indeed, I put it up on the board. 柏拉图的形而上学论给了我们前提一
So Platonic metaphysics gives us premise number one-- 理念或者型相是永恒的  非现实的
that ideas, forms, are eternal and they're non-physical. 前提二
Two-- 永恒和非现实的事物只能被
that which is eternal or non-physical can only be grasped 永恒和非现实的事物所认知
by the eternal and the non-physical. 在这二条前提的前提下
Suppose we had both of those. 我们似乎就得到了第三条
It would seem to give us three, 也就是我们要的结论
the conclusion we want-- 能认知理念
that which grasps the ideas 或者型相的事物必须是永恒或非现实的
or the forms must be eternal or non-physical. 什么能认知理念或者型相呢
What is it that grasps the ideas or the forms? 是灵魂
Well, that's the soul. 假如能认知
If that which grasps the 理念或者型相的事物必须是永恒  非现实的
ideas or the forms must be eternal/non-physical, 那么我们能得到的结论是
well one thing we're going to get is, 既然能认知型相的事物必须是非现实的
since that which grasps the forms must be non-physical, 而且灵魂并不是肉体
the soul is not the body. 同时能认知理念
Since that which grasps the ideas 或者型相的事物必须是永恒的或非现实的
or forms must be eternal or non-physical-- 所以灵魂是永恒的  不朽的
it's eternal, it's immortal. 我们再把这个论证更仔细地看一遍
All right. Let's look at this again more carefully. 理念或者型相是永恒的  是非现实的
Ideas or forms are eternal; they're non-physical. 我已经强调了非现实的方面
Well, I've emphasized the non-physical aspect, 并且我也强调了他们的不变性
and I've emphasized as well that they're not changing. 但是也许有必要花一些时间
But perhaps it's worth taking a moment 强调一下型相的永恒性
to emphasize the eternal aspect of the forms. 人类可能生老病死
Now, people may come and go, 但是完美的正义
but perfect justice 或者说完美正义的理念  是永恒的
--the idea of perfect justice--that's timeless. 在地球上发生的任何事都不能
Nothing that happens here on Earth can change 改变或者消灭数字"三"
or alter or destroy the number three. 在人类出现之前  二加一就等于三
Two plus one equaled three before there were people; 二加一现在等于三
two plus one equals three now; 并将永远等于三
two plus one will always equal three. 数字"三"是永恒的
The number three is eternal, 同时也是非现实的
as well as being non-physical. 柏拉图的形而上学论说得非常笼统
So the Platonic metaphysics says quite generally, 假如我们提到理念或者型相
if we're thinking about the ideas or the forms, 要点就是他们是永恒的  是非现实的
the point to grasp is they're eternal; they're non-physical. 最关键的前提是
The crucial premise 我们已经承认了前提一
since we're giving Plato number one 所以对我们来说最关键的前提是前提二
the crucial premise for our purposes is premise number two. 我们是否可以说
Is it or isn't it true 那些永恒
that those things which are eternal 或非现实的事物只能被
or non-physical can only be grasped 本身是永恒和非现实的其他事物认知呢
by something that is itself eternal and non-physical? 看起来他想要的第三条结论
Again, it does seem as though the conclusion that he wants, 是很合理的推论
number three, follows from that. 假如我们承认前提二
If we give him number two, 那么接下来就是不管是什么事物在认知
it's going to follow that whatever's doing the grasping-- 姑且称之为灵魂好了
call that the soul since 因为灵魂是柏拉图对我们心灵的称呼
the soul is just Plato's word for our mind-- 假如能够认知永恒
if whatever's doing the grasping of the eternal 和非现实型相的事物本身必须是
and non-physical forms must itself be 永恒和非现实的
eternal and non-physical, 那么灵魂必须是非现实的
it follows that the soul must be non-physical. 所以现实主义者是错误的
So the physicalist view is wrong 而且灵魂肯定是不死的
and the soul must be eternal. 灵魂是不朽的
The soul is immortal. 所以如果我们同意他的前提二
So Socrates has what he wants, 苏格拉底就得到了他想要的
once we give him premise number two, 前提二说永恒  非现实的事物
that the eternal, non-physical 只能被永恒  非现实的事物认知
can only be grasped by the eternal, non-physical. 正如苏格拉底所总结的
As Socrates puts it at one point, 污秽不会拥有纯洁
"The impure cannot attain the pure." 易腐朽的  能被摧毁的
Bodies--corruptible, destroyable, 现实的  逝去的肉体
physical, passing-- 不论他们是存在与否
whether they exist or not, 不论他们是否
whether they exist for a 存在了一段时间然后又逝去
brief period and then they cease to exist-- 这些污秽的物体不能获得  不能认知
these impure objects cannot attain, cannot grasp, 不会对永恒的  不变的
cannot have knowledge of the eternal, 非现实的型相有所认识
changeless non-physical forms. " 污秽不会拥有纯洁
The impure cannot attain the pure." 那就是最关键的前提
That's the crucial premise, 并且我想要说的是
and what I want to say is, 依我来看  目前
as far as I can see 并没有很好的理由来相信前提二
there's no good reason to believe number two. 前提二不是一个陌生的
Now, number two is not an unfamiliar-- 前提二不是一个陌生的断言
premise number two is not an unfamiliar claim. 我把那个看做是个断言  基本上是为了
I take it the claim basically is that, 用更熟悉的语言来阐述
to put it in more familiar language 只有同类才最了解彼此
it takes one to know one. 或者
Or to use it, 一种稍微不同的说法是
slightly other kind of 柏拉图在多个观点中所用到的
language that Plato uses at various points, 同类互知
"Likes are known by likes." 同类的事物才能互相认知
But it takes one to know one 也许这是说明这个观点最熟悉的方式
is probably the most familiar way of putting the point. 柏拉图说  我们知道什么呢
Plato's saying, "What is it that we know? 我们知道永恒的型相
Well, we know the eternal forms; 并且知道同类互知
takes one to know one. 那么我们自身就必须是永恒的
So we must ourselves be eternal." 不幸的是
Unfortunately, 这样的想法  即同类者互知
this thought, popular as it may be, 可能很流行
that it takes one to know one, 但实际上是错误的
just seems false. 想想一些例子吧
Think about some examples. 比如说  生物学家
Well, let's see, a biologist might study, 或者动物学家可能会研究猫
or a zoologist might study, cats. 不过同类互知
Takes one to know one 那么这个生物学家他自己必须是猫
so the biologist must himself be a cat. 这显然是错的
Well, that's clearly false. 你不需要变成猫来研究猫科动物
You don't have to be feline to study the feline. 同类才能互知
Takes one to know one; 所以加拿大人就不能研究墨西哥人
so, you can't be a Canadian and study Mexicans, 因为只有同类才能互知
because it takes one to know one. 那实在是太愚蠢了
Well, that's just clearly stupid. 加拿大人当然可以研究墨西哥人
Of course the Canadians can study the Mexicans 德国人也可以研究法国人
and the Germans can study the French. 这不需要同类互知
It does not take one to know one; 你不需要是法国人
to understand the truths about the French, 才能了解法国人
you do not yourself need to be French. 再比如一些医生研究尸体
Or take the fact that some doctors study dead bodies. 所以为了研究并掌握关于尸体的知识
Aha! So to study and grasp things about dead bodies, corpses, 你自己必须先是一具死尸
you must yourself be a dead body. 这么说肯定不对
No, that certainly doesn't follow. 所以假如我们开始
So if we start actually 深入探讨一些例子
pushing ourselves to think about examples-- 到底需不需要同类才能互知 答案是
does it really take one to know one--the answer is, 至少通常来说  这是不需要的
at least as a general claim, it's not true. 所以一般不需要同类才能互知
It doesn't normally take one to know one. 严格的来说
Now, strictly speaking, 这并不能证明前提二是错的
that doesn't prove that premise two is false. 理由可以是
It could still be that, 尽管通常来说你要想了解和研究一个事物
although normally you don't have to be like the thing 你不一定要成为那个事物
that you're studying in order to study it, 尽管这通常来说是不需要的
although that's not normally true, 但可能非现实的物体是一个特例
it could be that in the particular case of non-physical objects, 尤其是永恒的物体
in the particular case of eternal objects, 也许要研究这些物体
you do have to be eternal, 你自己本身必须是永恒的 非现实的
non-physical to study them. 即使一般来说
It could be that even though the general claim, 同类互知这个观点是错的  但它的特例
"It takes one to know one" Is false, the particular claim, 也就是永恒的非现实的东西只能被永恒的
"Eternal, non-physical can only be grasped by the eternal, 非现实的东西所理解  这可能是对的
non-physical," Maybe that particular claim is true. 而柏拉图只需要它的特例成立就够了
And it's only the particular claim that Plato needs. 然而我想问  为什么我们要相信前提二
Still, all I can say is, why should we believe two? 为什么我们应该认为即使通常来说
Why should we think there's some--Even though, normally, 那个界限是可以跨越的
the barrier can be crossed 即X可以研究非X
and Xs can study the non-X, 那为什么这个界限突然
why should that barrier suddenly become un-crossable 在讨论柏拉图型相的时候
in the particular instance 就变得不可逾越了呢
when we're dealing with Platonic forms? 给我们点原因来相信前提二吧
Give us some reason to believe premise two. 我找不到什么很好的原因来相信前提二
I can't see any good reason to believe premise two, 在我看来
and as far as I can see, 柏拉图在对话录中
Plato doesn't actually give 也没有给出任何令人信服的理由
us any reason to believe it in the dialogue. 因此我们必须说  起码在我看来
Consequently, we have to say, as far as I can see, 我们没有一个够好的观点来支持这个结论
we haven't been given any adequate argument for the conclusion 就是承认了灵魂可以思考型相和理念
that the soul--which admittedly can think about forms and ideas-- 我们也没有充分的理由来被说服
we have no good reason yet to believe, 并且相信
to be persuaded, that the 灵魂它本身必须是永恒的  非现实的
soul must itself be eternal and non-physical. 这是第一个观点
That's the first argument. 柏拉图本身
As I say though, Plato may 可能已经认识到这个观点站不住脚
well recognize the inadequacy of that argument, 因为苏格拉底
because after all Socrates 还提供了一系列其他的观点
goes on to offer a series of other arguments. 所以我们再看下一个
So let's turn to the next. 我把第二个观点称为"循环观点"
I call the second argument "The argument from recycling"-- 可能这不是最好的名称
not the best label I suppose, 但是我没有想到更好的
but I've never been able to come up with a better one. 其中心思想是每一个部件都会被再利用
And the basic idea is that parts get re-used. 物体从一个状态转移到另一个状态
Things move from one state to another state 再回到初始状态
and then back to the first state. 举例来说吧
So, for example, 柏拉图在对话中举过这么个例子
to give an example that Plato actually gives in the dialogue, 我们现在都清醒着
we are all awake now, 但之前我们都在熟睡
but previously we were asleep. 我们从睡的状态
We went from being in the realm of the asleep 进入到醒的状态
to being in the realm of the awake, 接着我们又会从醒的状态
and we're going to return from the realm of the awake back 回到睡的状态 周而复始
to the realm of the asleep and over and over and over again. 这就是循环
Hence, recycling. 一个能更好的解释柏拉图的观点的例子
I think that actually a better example for Plato's purposes, 尽管他本人不大可能想得到
not that I expect him to have this particular example, 我认为这个例子是汽车
but, would be a car. 汽车是由不同的零部件组成的
Cars are made up of parts 它们在车组装好之前就已经存在了
that existed before the car itself existed. 有引擎 方向盘
There was the engine and 轮胎以及之类的东西
the steering wheel and the tires and so forth. 这些零部件组装到一起生产出了一辆车
And these parts got assembled and put together to make up a car. 所以车的零部件
So the parts of the car 是先于车本身而存在的
existed prior to the existence of the car itself. 而车有一天会不再存在了
And the time is going to come when the car will cease 但它的零件却依然存在
to exist but its parts will still be around. 这些零件会被拆下来并出售
Right? It'll get taken apart for parts, sold for parts. 会有分电器盖 轮胎
There will be the distributor cap, and there will be the tires, 汽化器
and there will be the carburetor, 方向盘
there will be the steering wheel. 因此我美其名曰
Hence, the name, that I dub the argument, 循环观点
"The argument from recycling." 对柏拉图来说这就是万物的法则
That's the nature of reality for Plato. 这个观点似乎有一定的说服力
And it seems like a plausible enough view. 万物都是由之前存在的
Things come into being by 部件组成之后才出现的
being composed of previously existing parts. 当物体不再以它们之前的型相存在之后
And then, when those things cease to have the form they had, 每个组成它的部件会有其他的用途
the parts get used for other purposes. 它们被循环利用了
They get recycled. 如果我们同意柏拉图这个观点
If we grant that to Plato, 他认为我们就有了支持灵魂不灭性的论据
he thinks we've got an argument for the immortality of the soul. 因为我们的身体是由什么部件组成的呢
Because after all, what are the parts that make us up? 肉体由许多不同的部件组成
Well, there are the various parts of our physical body, 但是同样也有灵魂
but there's also our soul. Remember, 我在介绍斐多篇的时候
as I said, in introducing the Phaedo, 提到柏拉图并没有花大力气
Plato doesn't so much argue 去辩证肉体之外存在个什么东西
for the existence of something separate, 他直接默认了灵魂的存在
the soul, as presuppose it. 他最关心的是
His fundamental concern is 能否证明灵魂的不灭性
to try to argue for the immortality of the soul. 所以他直接
So he's just helping himself 默认了灵魂的存在
to the assumption that there is a soul. 灵魂是组成我们的部件之一
It's one of the parts that makes us, 它帮助构建了我们
that goes up into making us up, 它构建了我们
goes into making us up. 是组成我们的部件之一
It's one of the pieces that constitutes us. 如果循环观点是正确的
Given the thesis about recycling, 那么我们有理由相信
then, we have reason to believe the soul 灵魂会在我们消亡之后继续存在
will continue to exist after we break. 我们死了  组成我们的部件依旧存在
Even after our death, our parts will continue to exist. 我们的肉体在我们死亡之后依然存在
Our body continues to exist even after our death. 我们的灵魂会继续存在
Our soul will continue to exist. 然而循环观点
Well, there's a problem with 有一个问题  就是说
the argument from recycling, and it's this. 即使循环观点证明了
Even if the recycling thesis shows us 组成我们身体的部件是先于我们而存在
that we're made up of something that existed before our birth 同时一些部件
and that some kinds of parts 在我们死后会继续存在
are going to have to exist after our death, 但我们不能断言灵魂就是
we can't conclude that the soul is one of the parts 我们死后继续存在的部件之一
that's going to continue to exist after our death. 考虑几个我们熟悉的事实
Consider some familiar facts about human bodies. 我们现在知道人的身体是由原子组成的
As we nowadays know, human bodies are made up of atoms. 可以肯定的说
And it's certainly true 那些组成我身体的
that the atoms that make up 原子在我存在之前就存在
my body existed long before my body existed. 在我死后
And it's certainly true 这些原子也将继续存在下去
that after my death those atoms are going to continue to exist. 其中的某些原子
So there's some--and will 将被用来构成其他的东西
eventually get used to make something else. 所以柏拉图谈到
So Plato's certainly right 万物循环利用肯定是对的
about recycling as a fundamental truth. 那些构成我的部件在我之前就存在
The things that make me up existed before, 并且在我死后依然存在
and will continue to exist after my death. 但是这并不意味着
But that doesn't mean 组成我身体的所有部件都是先于我的存在
that every part of my body existed before I was born, 并不是每一个部件
and that every part of 都会在我死后依然存在
my body will continue to exist after I die. 打个比方 我的心脏是我身体的一部分
Take my heart. My heart is a part of my body. 然而它并不是先于我的存在
Yet, for all that, it didn't exist before my body began to exist. 它的出现
It came into existence as part of, 是伴随着我身体的出现而产生的
along with, the creation of my body, 在我死后它就不存在了
and it won't continue to exist, 至少在我身体死亡之后不会存活很长时间
at least not very long, after the destruction of my body. 在我死亡后很短的时间内
There'll be a brief period in which, 我的心脏将会继续存在
as a cadaver I suppose, my heart will continue to exist. 然而最终我的身体将会分解
But eventually my body will decompose. 我们没有任何理论根据
We certainly wouldn't have any grounds 来断言心脏是不死的
to conclude my heart is immortal, 并且将会永存
will exist forever. 这个观点似乎是错的
That just seems wrong. 即使有一些部件会被循环利用
So even though it's true that some kind of recycling takes place, 但我们不能断定
we can't conclude that everything 组成我们身体的每一部件都会死后永存
that's now a part of me will continue to exist afterwards. 永存的甚至可能不是
It might not have been one of the parts, 那些构成我身体的基础部件
one of the fundamental parts from which I'm built, 比如我的心脏
like the heart. 如果这是事实
And if that's right, 如果说现在构成我的一些零部件
if there can be parts that I have now 并不是在我存在之前就存在的
that weren't one of the parts from which I was made, 那我们就没理由相信
there's no particular reason to think 这些零部件会在我死后
it's going to be one of the parts that's going 继续存在下去
to continue to exist after I die. 我们清楚了这个缺陷之后
Once we see that kind of worry, 就必须想想
we have to see, look, 这道理对灵魂来说同样适用
the same thing could be true for the soul. 即使灵魂是不灭的
Even if there is an immortal soul-- 不对  即使有个非现实的灵魂是我的一部分
Sorry. Even if there is a non-physical soul that's part of me, 我们并没有任何理由去相信
we don't yet have any reason to believe 灵魂是被循环利用的
that it's one of the fundamental 基本组成部分之一
building blocks that were being recycled. 我们并没有充分的理由来断定
We don't have adequate reason to conclude that 灵魂是在我被组装起来之前就存在了
it's something that existed before I was put together, 它会被循环利用
it's something that will be recycled 并且在我解体后依然存在
and continue to exist after I fall apart, 我的身体分解了之后
after my body decomposes, 在灵魂与肉体分离之后  或者其他说法
after I'm separated from my body, or what have you. 即使循环的确发生了
Even if recycling takes place, 我们并没有很好的理由来相信
we don't have any good reason yet to believe 灵魂就是一个循环的部件
that the soul is one of the recycled parts. 在我看来循环观点
So it seems to me "The argument from recycling," 也是不成功的
as I call it, is not successful either. 很多时候当你阅读柏拉图的对话录
Now, as I say, many times when you read the dialogue, 不管是这篇还是其他篇
this or other dialogues by Plato, 柏拉图似乎很清楚至少有一个留心的读者
it seems as though he's fully cognizant of the objections 会对早期的一些观点
that at least an attentive reader will raise 提出反驳意见
about earlier stages of the argument. 因为有些时候
Because sometimes the best way to 理解后期观点最好的办法
understand a later argument is to see it as responding 是看它如何回应早期观点的缺陷与不完善
to the weaknesses of earlier arguments. 我想这就很清楚的
And I think that's pretty clearly 说明了对话录中的
what's going on in the very 下一个观点是什么
next argument that comes up in the dialogue. 刚刚我提出的异议
The objection I just raised, after all, 对循环观点的异议  总而言之
to the argument from recycling, said, 就是即使有一些部件会被循环利用
in effect, even though some kind of recycling takes place, 但不是所有部件都循环
not all my parts get recycled, 因为不是所有组成我的部件
because not all of my parts were among 都是先于我的身体存在的
the pre-existing constituent pieces from which I am built up. 我们没有什么理由
We don't have any particular reason 去相信我的心脏是之前就存在的
to think my heart's one of the prior-existing pieces; 我们没有理由说
we don't have any good reason 我的灵魂之前就是存在的
to assume that my soul's one of the prior-existing pieces. 柏拉图下面一个论证就试着
Well, Plato's very next argument attempts to persuade us 说服我们有理由相信
that indeed we do have reason to believe 灵魂原来就是存在的
that the soul is one of the prior-existing pieces. 这个论证被称作"回忆论"
And this argument is known as "The argument from recollection." 大意是  他要
The idea is, he's going to 告诉我们一些需要解释的现象
tell us certain facts that need explaining, 以及对其最好的解释
and the best explanation 这包括一些回忆的例子
involves a certain fact about recollecting, 或者一些有关回忆的说法
or a certain claim about recollecting or remembering. 但是我们之前知道
But we can only remember, he thinks, 他认为我们的灵魂
in the relevant way if our 存在于我们的身体诞生之前
soul existed before the birth of our body, 在我们的身体被创造之前
before the creation of our body. 什么是关键性的现象
All right. What's the crucial fact? 让我们从这里开始
Well, let's start by-- 柏拉图首先告诉我们
Plato starts by telling us, 提醒我们什么是记起一件事情
reminding us of what it is to remember something. 更恰当一点的说法是
Or perhaps a better word 你是如何因为另一个类似的事物
would be what is it to be reminded of something 而不是这个事物本身
by something else that resembles it 联想到这个事物的
but is not the thing it reminds you of. 我有一张我朋友露丝的照片
I might have a photograph of my friend Ruth. 我看到照片就想到她
And looking at the photograph reminds me of Ruth. 她在我脑海中浮现  我开始想起露丝
It brings Ruth to mind. I start thinking about Ruth. 我记起了很多关于露丝的事情
I remember various things I know about Ruth. 照片可以达到这个效果
The photograph is able to do that, 可以引起这些回忆
is able to trigger these thoughts. 但是照片不是露丝
But of course, the photograph is not Ruth. 应该没有人会
Right? Nobody would--who's thinking clearly-- 把照片和我的朋友搞混淆吧
would confuse the photograph with my friend. 但是照片和露丝很相似
But the photograph resembles Ruth. 它和露丝相似到
It resembles Ruth well 足以让我想起她  有趣的是
enough to remind me of her, and interestingly, 一张不是很好的照片也可以做到
it can do that even if it's not a very good photograph. 你拿起照片  我可能会说
You might hold up the photograph and I might say, 这一点都不像露丝
"Gosh, that really doesn't look very much like Ruth does it?" 尽管我知道这是露丝的照片
Even though I see that it is a photograph of Ruth; 它让我想起了她
it reminds me of her. 那到底是什么
Now, how could it be 让我通过照片联想到我的朋友呢?
that a photograph reminds me of my friend? 这不是什么深藏的谜团
Well, this isn't some deep mystery. 一般来说它的原理是
Presumably the way it works is, 我刚说了  它看起来有点像她
as I just said, it looks sort of like her. 它不需要看起来很像她
It doesn't have to look very much like her. 多少有点像就够了
It looks sort of like her. 你的弟弟妹妹或者我的小宝贝们
Your young brother or sister, or my little children, 可以画一些看起来
can draw pictures of family 仅仅有点像家庭成员的画
members that barely look like family members. 我侄女三岁时画了张全家福
My niece drew a picture of my family once when she was three. 看起来几乎不怎么像我们
It didn't look very much like us at all, 但我们可以或多或少的
but we could sort of see 找到些和我们相似的地方
the resemblance in a vague kind of way, right? 所以它必须有点像你想念的朋友
So it's got to look at least somewhat like the missing friend. 但是这样不够
But that's not enough. 假如你从来没见过露丝
You've never met Ruth, let's suppose. 我拿着照片
I hold up the photograph 不告诉你任何关于她的事情
without having told you anything about her. 这张照片不会让你想起露丝
The photograph's not going to remind you of Ruth. 为什么呢
Why not? 因为你不认识露丝
Well, you don't know Ruth. 所以我们不只需要露丝的照片
So the pieces we need are not only an image of Ruth, 甚至不能是一张不像露丝的照片
even if an imperfect image of Ruth, 我们必须之前就熟知她才行
we also need some prior acquaintance with Ruth. 基本上就是这个过程了
That's pretty much what it takes, right? 所以一方面  按时间顺序来说
So on the one hand--temporal sequence-- 你需要先知道露丝
first you know Ruth, 见到露丝 了解露丝
you meet Ruth, you get to know Ruth. 然后以后你看到她的照片时
Then at a later time you're shown an image of Ruth-- 就算不是特别像  但是足够
maybe not even an especially good image of Ruth-- 让你想起她的一张照片时
but good enough to remind you. 然后立刻你就会
And suddenly, you're remembering 回想起关于露丝的一切
things you know about Ruth. 这就是回忆论的原理
That's how recollection works. All right. 柏拉图指出
Now, Plato points out that 我们都知道柏拉图型相
we all know things about the Platonic forms. 但是我们还知道
But the Platonic forms, 现实世界中没有柏拉图型相
as we also know, are not to be found in this world. 数字三不是一个物理实体
The number three is not a physical object, 正圆不是一个物理实体
perfect roundness is not a physical object, 真正的善良不是一个物理实体
perfect goodness is not a physical object. 我们可以思考这些东西
We can think about these things; 我们的心灵可以感受它们
our mind can grasp them, 但是在现实世界中我们找不到
but they're not to be found in this world. 然而现实世界中的一些事物
Yet, various things that we do find in this world 能让我们想到那些东西
get us thinking about those things. 我看着我餐桌上的盘子
I look at the plate on my kitchen table, 它不是正圆的  它不完美
it's not perfectly round, it's got imperfections; 但是我马上就可以想到圆圈
but suddenly I start thinking about circles, 正圆的东西
perfectly round objects. 我看到一个漂亮的人
I look at somebody who's pretty. 他或她并不是无瑕疵的漂亮
He or she is not perfectly beautiful, 但是我马上会想到美丽本身
but suddenly I start thinking about the nature of beauty itself. 这个世界的普通的事物
Ordinary objects in the world participate 在柏拉图型相中会处于或高或低的层次
to a greater or lesser degree in the Platonic forms. 这就是柏拉图眼中的形而上学
That's Plato's picture of metaphysics. 我们碰到  看到
And we bump up against, we look at, 我们和日常的事物互动的同时
we have interactions with these everyday objects and, 它们让我们想到
somehow, they get us 柏拉图型相本身
thinking about the Platonic forms themselves. 这是怎样发生的  柏拉图有他的理论
How does it happen? Plato has a theory. 他说  这些东西让我们回想到了柏拉图型相
He says, "These things remind us of the Platonic forms." 我们看到了某种程度上的美丽
We see something that's beautiful to some degree, 会让我们回想起完美的美丽
and it reminds us of perfect beauty. 我们看到较圆的东西
We see something that's more or less round, 我们会想到正圆
and it reminds us of perfect circularity. 我们看到某人品德不错
We see somebody who's fairly decent morally, 就会想到绝对的公正与完美的品德
and it reminds us of perfect justice or perfect virtue. 就像照片一样
It's just like the photograph, 或许拍的不好
perhaps the not very good photograph, 但是它能让我回想起我的朋友露丝
that reminds me of my friend Ruth.All right. 这也许解释了为什么有些
Well, there's an explanation of how it could be that things 本身并不是那么圆的东西
that are not themselves perfectly round could remind us, 会让我们想到正圆这个型相
could make us think about perfect roundness. 但是柏拉图又说
But then Plato says, 但是请记住(一个前提)
"Okay, but keep in mind 就是如果你需要能回忆与联想
all of what you need in order to have reminding, 起某个的东西(的前提)
to have recollecting take place." 如果一张照片能使我想起露丝
In order for the photograph to remind me of Ruth, 我必须已经见过露丝了
I have to already have met Ruth. 我必须已经熟悉她了
I have to already be acquainted with her. 如果一个或多或少
In order for a more or 有点圆的盘子能让我想到正圆
less round plate to remind me of roundness, 柏拉图认为
Plato says, 我必须已经见过完美的圆本身了
I have to have already met perfect roundness itself. 如果一个较为正义的社会
In order for a more or less 能让我想到公正本身
just society to remind me of justice itself, 能让我思考公正的本质
so that I can start thinking about the nature of justice itself, 我起码需要
I have to somehow have 对完美的正义有所认识
already been acquainted with perfect justice. 但这是什么时候怎样发生的呢
But how and when did it happen? 不是这一辈子  不是这个世界
Not in this life, not in this world. 这个世界没有正圆
In this world nothing is perfectly round, 没有什么是绝对漂亮的
nothing is perfectly beautiful, 没有绝对的正义
nothing is perfectly just. 所以应该是以前发生的
So it's got to have happened before. 如果看到我的朋友的照片
If seeing the photograph of my friend now 就能想起他/她本人
can remind me of my friend, 这是因为我以前见过我的朋友
it's got to be because I met my friend before. 如果我看到了
If seeing things that 一种型相的物体能让我想到这型相本身
participate in the forms remind me of the forms, 那么我之前一定直接见过
it's got to be because I've met 或者对那型相本身很熟悉
or been acquainted directly with the forms before. 但是  我们这辈子
But you don't bump up against, you don't meet, 没有直接碰到  见过  认知过
you don't see or grasp or become directly acquainted with, 这些型相
the forms in this life. 所以这些应该在这辈子之前发生的
So it's got to have happened before this life. 这就是柏拉图的论据  柏拉图说
That's Plato's argument. Plato says, 思考我们认知型相的过程
thinking about the way in which we grasp the forms 能让我们意识到
helps us to see 灵魂肯定在人诞生前就存在
that the soul must have existed before birth, 它在柏拉图式的天堂界里直接认知
in the Platonic heavenly realm, directly grasping, 直接与之交流  直接了解这些型相
directly communing with, directly understanding the forms. 既然不是这辈子发生的
It's not taking place in this life, 那么就肯定是以前发生的
so it has to have happened before. 现在我们得到了一直在寻找的那种论证
Now we've got the kind of argument we were looking for. 早一点的反驳意见是
Earlier the objection was, 我们没有好的理由来相信灵魂
We had no good reason to think the soul was one of the 是组成我们的一个基础部件
building blocks from which we're composed; 我们没有好的理由去相信它是
we have no good reason to think it's one of the pieces 在我们出生前
that was around before 身体形成前就存在的部分之一
our body got put together, before our birth. 苏格拉底说  不对  恰恰相反
Socrates says, "No. On the contrary, 基于回忆论
we do have reason, 我们有理由去说
based on the argument from recollection, 灵魂存在于我们出生之前
to conclude that the soul was around before we were born." 那么下一个问题是
All right. So the next question is, 回忆论是否是无懈可击的呢
is the argument from recollection a good one? 我其实并不太关心
Now, let's say, I'm not really much concerned 柏拉图本人认为
with whether this was an 这个论证是否说得通
argument that Plato thought worked or not. 问题是  我们认为它说得通吗
Our question is, do we think it works or not? 由于这个型相的论点
Although this is a form of an argument 柏拉图在其他的对话录里也提到过
that Plato does put forward in other dialogues as well, 所以这令我觉得他可能
and so it strikes me so there's at least some reason to think 觉得这个论点可以成立
this is an argument that he felt might well be right. 关键的前提是
The crucial premise--Again, 我们依然直接承认柏拉图的形而上学
we're going to just grant Plato the metaphysics. 关键的问题就是
The crucial question is going to be, is it right 为了解释
that in order to explain how it is 我们现在能了解某种型相
we could have knowledge of the forms now 就必须认为我们出生之前
that we have to appeal to a prior existence 已经直接熟悉了这些概念  这对吗
in which we had direct acquaintance? 我觉得它不太正确
It's not obvious to me that that's true. 有几个原因
It's not obvious to me for a couple of reasons. 一个问题是
One question is this: 难道真的说
Is it really true that in 为了想象一条完美的直线
order to think about the perfectly straight, 我必须
I must have somehow, 在某处直接碰到
somewhere at some point come up against, 并直接了解一条完美的直线吗
had direct knowledge of, the perfectly straight? 难道仅仅依靠我这辈子碰到的东西
Isn't it enough for me to extrapolate from cases 不足以使我推断出来吗
that I do come up against in this life? 我遇见过弯的东西
I come across things that are bent; 我碰到过更直的东西
I come across things that are more straight, 越来越直的东西
more and more straight. 即使我之前没有直接碰到过
Can't my mind take off from there 难道我的心灵不能借此来推断出
and push straight ahead to the idea of the perfectly straight, 完美的直线是什么样子的吗
even if I never have encountered it before? 我今天以这个观点结束
Let me stop with this idea. 即使柏拉图是对的
Even if Plato is right, 我们必须
that we need to have acquaintance 先熟悉柏拉图型相才能想象它们
with the Platonic forms themselves in order to think about them, 即使柏拉图是对的
and even if Plato is right 我们在与这个世界的现实事物接触时
that we never get the acquaintance in this world, 从来没有直接见过(柏拉图型相)
in the interaction with ordinary physical objects, 那么为什么不可能是
why couldn't it be that our acquaintance 我们就是在这辈子
with the Platonic forms comes 第一次见到柏拉图型相呢
about in this life for the very first time? 这就是个问题  或者说反驳意见
That's the question, or that's the objection, 我们下次课从这里开始
that we'll turn to at the start of next class. 



 Chapter 7: 柏拉图 (三) ：灵魂永恒与否的论证（续）


之前我们讨论了柏拉图灵魂不朽的观点
We've been looking at Plato's arguments for the immortality of the soul, 但到目前为止
and so far 我觉得没有一个能令人信服
I have to say I haven't found them very compelling arguments. 接下来  我们继续讨论一个
In a minute, I'm going to turn to an argument that 至少我个人觉得更为有趣的论点
at least strikes me as more interesting. 想找出它的具体错误更为不易
It's more difficult to pin down where it goes wrong. 不过讨论之前
But before we do, 我想对上节课末尾讨论的那个观点
I want to make a couple of comments about the arguments 简单的再讨论一下
we were considering at the end of last class. 上堂课最后我们谈到了"回忆论"
That was the argument from recollection. 它的大意为
You recall the basic idea was that 尽管在我们所熟知的现实世界里面
although objects in the ordinary familiar empirical world 没有绝对的公正
are not perfectly just, 没有正圆  或者其他
perfectly round, what have you, 但这些事物却让我们联想到绝对公正
they're able to remind us of perfect justice, 正圆等等
perfect roundness and the like. 于是柏拉图问自己
And when Plato asked himself, 那是为什么
"How could that be?" 他给出的答案是
the answer he gives is, 这是因为我们来到这个世界之前
"Well, it's got to be that we were previously acquainted 就已经熟知那些事物了
with the forms before our life in this world." 这就说明
And that shows that 灵魂必须先于肉体而存在
the soul must be something that existed prior to the creation of the body. 这就是"回忆论"的观点
That's the argument from recollection. 还有在下课前我提到
And at the very end of class I suggested that, 即使柏拉图的观点是对的
look, even if we were to grant to Plato that 他说为了探讨正义  正圆  或者其他
in order to think about justice,circularity, what have you, 我们必须对柏拉图型相有所了解
we had to somehow grasp the forms, 就算我们承认柏拉图是对的
and even if we were to grant to Plato that 这个世界上并不存在绝对的正圆和公正
nothing in this world is perfectly round or perfectly just, 但这并不意味着
it's not necessarily correct to say, 对此唯一合理的解释
"So the only possible explanation of what's going on is 就是这个现实世界里的事物
that these things in the empirical world 让我们想起了曾经遇见的型相
remind us of our prior acquaintance with the forms." 还有可能是因为
It could be that what goes on is, 当我们接触到一些
when we bump up against something 并非绝对公正  绝对美丽  绝对正圆
that's partially just or partially beautiful or partially round-- 即有缺陷的事物时
imperfectly round--what happens is, 这些事物会在某种程度上驱使我们
those things sort of trigger our minds in such a way that 去首次开始认知这些型相
we begin to think about the forms for the very first time. 因此可以说为了探讨公正和正圆
So it might be, in order to think about justice and roundness, 我们必须先掌握型相
we have to grasp the forms. 但也可能我们只是此生才开始
But it could be that we only grasp the forms in this life, 认知这些型相
for the very first time. 在接触并
Exposure to the things that 见识了这些型相后  它们会
participate in the forms may nudge our minds or our souls in such a way 驱使我们的心灵或灵魂去认知它们
that at that point--given that exposure--we begin to grasp the forms. 就好比生活中最平常的琐屑小物
It's as though the ordinary earthly objects, 与我们彼此相遇之后
we bump into them or they bump into us, 会指引我们仰望美好的柏拉图境界
and they get us to look upwards to the heavenly Platonic realm. 我不是说真的仰望
I don't mean literally upwards. 这不是在说数字3
It's not as though these things--the number three-- 在上面
is up there. 而是说一旦你理解了这个隐喻
But if you accept the metaphor, 在现实世界中碰到一些东西
running into things in the empirical world 使我们的心灵开始第一次的思考
gets our minds to start thinking about, for the first time, 美好的柏拉图境界的型相和理念
the heavenly realm of the Platonic forms and ideas. 这个解释和之前的那个理论一样合理
That would be just as likely a possibility as the alternative explanation 就是说普通的现实物体
that what's going on is that ordinary empirical objects 使我们想起之前的印象(不是唯一解释)
are reminding us of our prior acquaintance. 或许这些普通物体就像入门引言一样
Perhaps these ordinary objects act like letters of introduction, 指引我们  帮助我们
getting us to, helping us to, 去开始首次思考这些型相上的事物
think about the forms for the very first time. 如果这是对的
Well, if that's right, then of course, 我们当然就不必相信柏拉图之后的
we don't have any good reason to follow Plato when he says, 灵魂一定是先于肉体而存在的观点
"It must be the case that the soul existed prior to the--prior to birth." 我刚刚提出的这个反驳不是柏拉图
Now, the objection I've just raised is not an objection 在《斐多篇》中提到的
that Plato raises in the Phaedo, 不过他提出了另外一个异议
but he does raise a different objection. 请记住我们的讨论
Remember our concern isn't, 严格来讲不仅仅是问
strictly speaking, with the question, 灵魂在我们出生前存在吗
"Did the soul exist before our birth? 灵魂是先于肉体的存在吗
Did the soul exist before our bodies?" 而是要问  灵魂是不朽的吗
but rather, "Is the soul immortal?" 现在根据他的"回忆论"
And so, having now given the argument from recollection, 柏拉图假设出的苏格拉底的两个门徒
Plato envisions two of Socrates' disciples, 西米亚斯和塞贝斯
Simmias and Cebes, 做了如下的反驳
responding, objecting, by saying, 就算灵魂在人出生前就存在
"Look, even if the soul existed before birth, 这并不能说明它在肉体死亡后依然存在
it doesn't follow that it exists after death. 毕竟这才是
And that's, after all, 我们真正想要的
what we really want, 并且在思考的
are wondering about. 我们想知道
We want to know, 我们能否在死亡之后继续存活
will we survive our deaths? 灵魂是否不朽
Is the soul immortal? 但是苏格拉底
And you haven't yet 你还没有进行证明呢
shown that Socrates," 他们继续反驳道
they object. 也许它先前确实存在
Could be that it existed before, 但此后它未必依然存在
but won't exist afterwards. 但有趣的是
But very nicely-- 这里的结构非常巧妙
it's quite elegant structure at this point-- 苏格拉底把我们前面提到的
Socrates puts together the two arguments that 这两种观点
we've just been rehearsing-- 即"回忆论"及其之前的另一种观点
the argument from recollection and the argument that came before that, 我称作"循环论"的观点结合起来了
the one that I dubbed "the argument from recycling." 回忆一下  "循环论"的观点认为
Remember, the argument from recycling says, 当你组装一件东西时
when you build something, 你用的是零件
you build it out of parts, 当东西解体后则又变成了各种零件
and when that thing falls apart you go back to the parts. 所以先前的零件被循环利用了
So the prior parts get recycled. 而灵魂  我们可以说
The soul, we now say-- 根据"回忆论"的观点
based on the argument from recollection-- 灵魂好比我们出生前的一零件
the soul is one of our prior parts. 灵魂在我们出生之前就存在
The soul existed before we were put together, 或者说灵魂先于肉体而存在
or before we were put together with our bodies. 如果把"循环论"和之前的观点结合起来看
If you then combine the argument from recycling and say, 之前存在的零件  之后依然存在
the parts that existed before are going to exist afterwards, 那就说明了如果灵魂之前就存在
it must follow that if the soul existed before, 那么之后它也一定存在
it will exist afterwards as well. 由此我们就证明了灵魂是不朽的
And so we've got the immortality of the soul after all. 但是  事实上
Now, bracket the fact that, 如我之前所说
as I just explained, 我本人并不认为"回忆论"很有说服力
I don't myself find the argument from recollection persuasive. 我认为我们没有理由去相信
I don't think we've got any good reason to believe-- 根据柏拉图那些
based on the sort of things that 引起我们注意的理论
Plato is drawing our attention to-- 我不觉得我们有充分的理由去相信
I don't think we've got any good reason to believe that 灵魂先于肉体而存在
the soul existed before we were born. 即便我们认为他是对的
But even if we grant him that, 我们也不要过早认为
we shouldn't be so quick to conclude, 根据"回忆论"和
on the basis of combining the argument from recollection "循环论"的结合
and the argument from recycling, 灵魂在肉体死亡之后会继续存在
that the soul will continue to exist after the death of our bodies. 我们举个熟悉的例子
After all, take a more familiar, 一个平常的例子
humdrum example. 汽车在造出来之前不是汽车  对吧
Cars are built out of non-cars, right? 它由引擎  轮胎  和方向盘组装而成
Cars get built out of engines and tires and steering wheels. 但是引擎不是汽车
And the engine is not a car; 方向盘也不是汽车
the steering wheel is not a car. 你是用零件将汽车组装起来的
So you build the car out of its parts. 引擎是先于汽车存在
Now, the engine is a prior-existing part. 那么我们是不是可以做出这样的结论
So can we conclude then that from the fact that-- 根据"循环论"
argument from recycling: 零件可以再利用  可以再装配
parts get reused, get rebuilt, 当车坏掉了以后
when cars get destroyed, 零件依然还存在
the parts are still around-- 那我们能不能根据"循环论"
can we conclude from the argument from recycling 以及引擎是先于汽车存在的
and the fact that the engine is a prior-existing part 这一个事实
from which the car was built, 来断言说引擎会
that the engine will continue 在汽车毁坏之后依然永远存在呢
to exist forever after the destruction of the car? 很显然  我们不能做出这样的结论
No, obviously you can't conclude that at all. 有时车子毁坏的同时
Sometimes when cars get destroyed the engine 引擎也一起损坏了
gets destroyed right along with it. 当然了
And of course, even if-- 即使有时候
in many cases-- 引擎在车子毁坏了之后
the engine continues to exist for a while 还是会存在一段时间
after the destruction of the car, 但这不是说引擎是不朽的
it certainly doesn't follow that the engine is immortal, 引擎会永远存在
that it continues to exist forever. 引擎终将分解  变成原子
Engines will eventually decompose and turn back into atoms. 所以仅仅根据引擎是一个
So from the mere fact that the engine was a part 先于汽车存在的零件
that existed before the car existed, 以及后来当汽车被拆解时
and the further fact that when the car breaks down, 它又变成了零件的这一事实
it decomposes back into parts, 自然不能说明
it certainly doesn't follow that 所有先于汽车存在的零件
all of the parts that existed prior 都会永远存在
to the existence of the car will be around forever. 这是错的
That would just be false. 纵使我们接受了苏格拉底的假设
So even if we were to give Socrates the assumption that-- 或者说他的理论
the thesis that-- 即使(承认)灵魂先于我们存在
the soul existed before we were put together, 在我们出生前存在
before we were born, 但这仍不能表明
it still wouldn't follow that 当我们的肉体分解后灵魂依旧存在
the soul will continue to exist after we're taken back apart. 灵魂可能迟早会像引擎那样
The soul might eventually decay just like the engine 慢慢地消散
will eventually decay. 我们需要
What we need, 一个真正能说服我们灵魂是不朽的理由
to really become convinced of the immortality of the soul, 不能仅仅依靠假设
is not the mere suggestion, 即使是
even it was-- 即使我们确信
even if we were convinced-- 灵魂的确是先于肉体存在的
is not the mere suggestion that the soul was around before our birth. 我们需要证明
We need to believe that the soul, 灵魂不同于引擎
unlike an engine, 它不会被毁灭
can't itself be destroyed, 不会分解
can't itself decompose, 不会消亡
can't fall apart. 这才是让使我们信服
That's what we need if we're really going 灵魂是不朽的有力证据
to become convinced of the immortality of the soul. 正如我前面提到的
Now, as I remarked previously, 最不可思议的是
one of the amazing things-- 不该说不可思议  应说柏拉图的著作里
not amazing but one of the really attractive things 最引人入胜的是
about Plato's dialogues is, 当你刚要反驳他的观点时  柏拉图本人
you raise an objection and it often seems as though Plato himself, 不管是否已经直白地阐述了这些异议
whether or not he explicitly states the objection, 好似已经知道这些异议了
seems aware of the objection, 因为接下来他一定会对此进行回应
because he'll go on to say something that is responsive to it. 如果你认为
And again, that makes sense 这些对话录是完善你哲学思维的
if you think of these dialogues as a kind of pedagogical tool 学习工具   这就显的很合理
to help you get better at philosophizing. 所以我认为  柏拉图接下来的对话
So the very next argument that Plato turns to can be viewed, 可以看作对这个没表达出来的异议的回应
I think, as responding to this unstated objection-- 我在这里说了
well, I stated it, 柏拉图可没有在他的书中这么说
but Plato doesn't state it in the dialogue-- (他没有问)即使灵魂是我们的一零件
the worry that even if the soul was one of the parts, 尽管灵魂先于肉体而存在
even if the soul was already around before we were born, 我们怎么能证明它不会分解
how do we know it can't come apart? 我们怎么证明它不会被摧毁
How do we know the soul can't be destroyed? 由于我们想知道灵魂到底是不是不朽的
Since what we want to know is whether the soul is immortal, 我们怎么证明它不会消散
how do we know it can't break? 柏拉图的下个观点直接回答了这个疑问
Plato's next argument then tries to deal directly with this worry, 而且这是一个很有趣的观点
and it's a quite interesting argument. 我给它一个
I'll give it another-- 新的名称
a new label-- 称为 "精简论"
I'll call it the "argument from simplicity." 苏格拉底做了如下的探讨
Socrates turns to a discussion of 什么样的东西会消散
what kinds of things can break 什么样的东西不会消散
and what kinds of things can't break; 什么样的东西会损毁
what kinds of things can be destroyed, 什么样的东西不会损毁
and what kinds of things can't be destroyed. 他举了些例子
He thinks about examples; 他想通过研究这些例子
he surveys examples and tries 来总结出一条形而上学的原理
to extract a kind of metaphysical principle from this. 然后  我们就会看到
And then, as we'll see, 他希望运用这条原理使我们信服
he's going to use this principle to convince us-- 或者尽量说服我们相信  灵魂是不朽的
or to try to convince us--that the soul is immortal, 是坚不可摧的
it's indestructible. 很多东西都能被摧毁
Well, lots of things can be destroyed. 这有一张纸
Here's a piece of paper. 我能撕坏它  对吧
It can be destroyed [sound of ripping paper] Right? 那么为什么这东西可以被摧毁呢
Why was it that this was the sort of thing that could be destroyed? 最直接的回答就是这张纸是有组成部分的
Well, the straightforward answer is the piece of paper had parts. 损坏它
And in breaking it, 撕掉它
in ripping it, 我其实是把其中的一部分与另一部分撕开
what I literally did was I ripped one part from another. 为了损毁这张纸
To destroy the piece of paper, 我把它的部分分开了
I take its parts apart. 这有一根粉笔
Here's piece of chalk. 它可以被我折断
The piece of chalk can be broken. 我现在在干什么
What am I doing? 我把它的各个部分分开
Taking its parts apart. 可以被摧毁的东西都有"部分"
The kinds of things that can be destroyed have parts. 它们是合成的
They are composite. 它们由各个"部分"组成
They are composed of their parts. 肉体可以被摧毁  因为你可以拿一把刀
Bodies can be destroyed because you can take a sword to it 然后切切切  把它切割成片
and go sweep, sweep, sweep and chop it into pieces. 合成的东西是可以被摧毁的
Composite things can be destroyed. 有"部分"的事物是可以被摧毁的
Things that have parts can be destroyed. 什么样的东西不会被摧毁呢
Now, what kind of things can't be destroyed? 不例外的
Well, it won't surprise you 柏拉图在寻找永恒的
that when Plato looks for an example of something 并且不可摧毁的例子时
that's eternal and indestructible, 他直接开始思考柏拉图型相
his mind immediately starts thinking about the Platonic forms. 比如说数字3
Take the number three. 数字3是不能被摧毁的
The number three can't be destroyed, right? 即使发生了核爆炸
Even if nuclear explosion took place 地球上的一切
and everything on Earth 都在某种诡异的科幻式连锁反应中毁灭了
got atomized and destroyed through some bizarre science fiction chain reaction, 就像是电影里经常出现的那样
like they're always doing in movies, 数字3仍旧毫发无损
the number three wouldn't be touched. 数字3不会受到任何影响
The number three wouldn't be fazed. 3加1等于4依然是成立的
It would still be true that three plus one equals four. 你不可能损害到数字3
You can't hurt the number three. 你无法改变或摧毁正圆
You can't alter or destroy perfect circularity. 为什么不能  因为它没有任何”部分”
Why not? Well, it doesn't have any parts. 这就是他的观点
That's the thought. 像柏拉图型相的东西是永恒的
Things like the Platonic forms are eternal, 它们永远存在  固定不变
and they're eternal, changeless, 坚不可摧
and indestructible, 因为它们简单
because they are simple-- 简单在此是一个形而上学的概念
simple here being the metaphysical notion that 指它们不由任何事物组成
they're not composed of anything. 对于所有由”部分”组成的物体  你会
Anything that's built up out of parts you could, 最起码从理论上
at least in principle, 会担心它们的”部分”会分崩离析
worry about the parts coming apart and, 因而导致整个物体的毁灭
hence, the thing being destroyed. 不过所有简单的事物
But anything that's simple 是不会以那样的方式毁灭的
can't be destroyed in that way. 因为它没有"部分”可分
It has no parts to take apart. 因此所有能够被摧毁的事物都是有"部分"的
So the kinds of things that can be destroyed are the things with parts, 这些就是能够变化的东西
and those are the sorts of things that change, right? 即使它们现在没有被摧毁
Even if they're not destroyed, 又如何判断某物是否是合成的呢
what's a tip off to something being composite? 要看它会不会变化
The fact that it changes. 假设我拿来一根金属条  然后把它掰弯
Suppose I take a bar of metal and I bend it. 我并没有摧毁它  但我改变了它
I haven't destroyed it, but I've changed it. 我可以通过改变各部分之间的关系
I'm able to change it by rearranging the relationships 来改变它
between the various parts. 我的身体一直在变化
My body is constantly changing 因为我的胳膊  头 及其他器官
because the relationships between 之间的关系改变了
my arms and my head and so forth, 我的肌肉在活动
my muscles are moving. 调整了"部分"之后
You rearrange the parts, 这个东西就变了
the thing changes. 这就意味着这东西是由”部分”组成
Oh, but that means it's got parts 而且它可以被摧毁
and could be destroyed. 现在我们可以归纳出一些有趣的结论
So we've got some nice generalizations. 会改变的事物是由"部分"组成的
Things that change have parts; 而由"部分"组成的事物是可以被摧毁的
things with parts can be destroyed. 哪些事物是可以改变和摧毁的呢
What are the kinds of things that you can change and destroy? 那些现实世界里为我们所熟悉的事物
Those are the familiar empirical objects that we can see: 比如纸  身体  粉笔和金属条
pieces of paper, bodies, pieces of chalk, bars of metal. 与此相对  另一方面
In contrast, on the whole other side, 有些事物则是无形的
you've got things that are invisible, 比如数字3
like the number three-- 数字3是看不见的  是无形的事物
nobody sees the number three--things that are invisible, 它从不改变
that never change. 数字3从不改变  对吧
The number three never changes, right? 3是一个奇数
The number three is an odd number. 不会说
It's not as though, 今天3是奇数明天它就变成偶数了
oh, today it's odd but maybe tomorrow it'll be even. 它永远是个奇数
It's eternally an odd number. 3加1今天  昨天  且永远都等于4
Three plus one equals four today, yesterday and forever. 这些关于3的事实是永远不会变的
These facts about the number three will never change. 数字3不会改变
The number three is changeless. 因此型相是永恒的
So the forms are eternal; 它们无形
they're invisible; 它们不变
they are changeless. 它们简单  而简单的事物无法被摧毁
They're simple, and simple things can't be destroyed; 型相是无法被摧毁的
forms can't be destroyed. 把这些合并在一起
You put all this together; 这些是苏格拉底集中归纳的观点
these are the sorts of thoughts that Socrates assembles, 我已经把刚才谈到的观点写在黑板上了
and I've got the initial thoughts up there on the board. [见图8.1]  好的
[See Figure 8.1] All right. 前提一  只有合成的事物才能被摧毁
So premise number one, only composite things can be destroyed. 前提二  只有会改变的事物才是合成的
Premise number two, only changing things are composite. 因此如果把两者结合起来  就可以得到
So if you put one and two together, you'd get: 只有会改变的事物才可以被摧毁
only changing things could be destroyed. 现在加上前提三  无形的事物不会改变
And now add three, invisible things don't change. 那么  如果事物必须可以改变
Well, if you've got to be the kind of thing 才能是合成的
that can change in order to be composite 而且必须是合成的事物才可以被摧毁
and you've got to be composite in order to be destroyed, 无形的事物不会改变
invisible things don't change, 可以得出四  无形的事物无法被摧毁
follows four, invisible things can't be destroyed. 这就是苏格拉底根据思考
That's the metaphysical thesis that Socrates comes to 得出的形而上学的论题
by thinking about cases. 而那正是关于灵魂不朽的
And that's the crucial premise or sub-conclusion 关键前提或说是次级结论
for the immortality of the soul, 因为接下来  苏格拉底将促使
because then Socrates invites 我们思考灵魂的问题
us to think about the soul. 灵魂是有形还是无形
Is the soul visible or invisible? 他说  很明显
He says, pretty obviously, 灵魂是无形的
"it's invisible." 如果无形的事物不能被摧毁
But if invisible things can't be destroyed, 那么灵魂也就不能被摧毁
the soul can't be destroyed. 因此前提一二三可以导出次级结论四
So one, two and three got us four, 无形的事物是不能被摧毁的
invisible things can't be destroyed, 前提五  灵魂是无形的  得结论六
but five, the soul is invisible so six, 灵魂不能被摧毁
the soul can't be destroyed. 这是我在基于"精简论"
That's my best attempt 重构论点的前提下能给出的最好解释
at reconstructing the argument from simplicity. 这些并不是柏拉图
It's not as though Plato himself spells it out 明确说明的前提和结论
with premises and conclusions like that, 不过我认为这是忠于
but I think this is fairly faithful 他提出的论证方式的
to the kind of argument he means to put forward. 一会儿我将评估
And in a moment I'll turn to evaluating 这个论点是否是个好论点
whether that's a good argument or not. 不过我认为这是一个非常有趣的论点
But I think it's a pretty interesting argument; 是一个值得我们认真对待的论点
it's an argument worth taking fairly seriously. 不过  我必须承认
Except, I've got to confess to you 苏格拉底并不一定会完全按照
that Socrates doesn't quite conclude the way 我所预料他将采取论证的方式进行论证
I would've thought he would've concluded. 这样我们通过论证得出结论六
So I've had the argument conclude six, 灵魂不能被摧毁
the soul can't be destroyed. 但苏格拉底实际说的是
But what Socrates actually says is-- 他实际的结论是
his actual conclusion is-- 因此灵魂是坚不可摧的
"And so the soul is indestructible 或几乎不可摧毁的"
or nearly so." 一个相当古怪的限定
That's rather an odd qualification, "或几乎不可摧毁"
"or nearly so." 苏格拉底通过关于改变
The conclusion that Socrates reaches from his examination of change 无形等等概念的讨论
and invisibility and so forth and so on, 以及合成性与简单性的对比
and compositeness versus simplicity, 所得出的结论是
is that "灵魂不可摧毁或几乎不可摧毁"
"the soul is indestructible or nearly so." 现在  这个限定带来了新的问题
Now, adding that qualification opens the door to a worry. 这个问题是塞贝斯提出来的  他说
The worry gets raised by Cebes who says, 即使我们承认灵魂几乎不可被摧毁
even if we grant that the soul is nearly indestructible, 也不足以说明灵魂的不朽
that's not good enough to get us immortality. 而且他还提出了一个十分有趣的类比
And he gives a very nice analogy of somebody who's-- 一件衣服可能比它的主人存在更久
a coat, which could outlast the owner 不过它绝非不朽
but isn't immortal. 或者说主人也可能穿过好几件衣服
Or the owner could go through several coats; 然而在某个时刻主人仍旧会死亡
but still at some point the owner's going to die as well. 主人远比衣服不朽
The owner is far more immortal, 或者可以说是更接近不朽
in that sense, closer to immortality. 我本人这一辈子也穿过很多的衣服
And I've gone through many coats in my life, 虽然如此  我并非坚不可摧
but for all that, I'm not indestructible. 如果我们最终所得仅仅是
If all we've got is the mere fact that the soul 灵魂是"几乎"不可摧毁的
is "nearly" indestructible, 需要花费很大的功夫才能摧毁它
it takes a whole lot more work to destroy it, 也许它存在的时间更久一些
maybe it lasts a whole lot longer; 也许一个灵魂会经历很多的肉体
maybe it goes through a whole lot of bodies 在消耗殆尽被摧毁前转世六次
being reincarnated a half-dozen, 或是十二次  或是好几百次才最终消亡
or a dozen, or hundred times before it wears out and gets destroyed. 这些都不足以使我们得出灵魂不朽的结论
That's not enough to give us the immortality of the soul. 这就是塞贝斯提出的质疑
That's the objection that Cebes raises. 奇怪的一点是
And one of the oddities is that, 在我看来
as far as I can see, 苏格拉底从未回应过这个质疑
Socrates never responds to that objection. 提出这个质疑
Raises the objection-- 即是说
that is, 柏拉图凭借塞贝斯之口道出了自己的质疑
Plato raises the objection in the voice of Cebes-- 然而苏格拉底
but Socrates, 柏拉图笔下的苏格拉底
on Plato's behalf, 从未应答过这个质疑
never answers the objection. 很难道明这其中的缘由
It's hard to say what exactly is going on. 有可能是因为柏拉图担心
It might be that Plato's worried that 他并未真正证明灵魂是不朽的
he hasn't really shown that the soul is immortal afterwards. 也许这个从"精简论"推理出的论点
Maybe this argument from simplicity isn't really 并不如预想中那么严密
as good as it needs to be. 而那也许解释了为什么柏拉图接下来
And maybe that explains why Plato then goes on 提出了另外一个论点
to offer yet another argument. 毕竟  如果这个论点确实
After all, if this argument really 证明了灵魂的不朽
did show the immortality of the soul, 他为什么还要给出另外一个论点呢
why would he need to offer a further argument? "必要属性论"
The argument from essential properties, 我们以后会讨论它
which we'll be turning to later. 因此也许柏拉图觉得
So maybe Plato just thought 对于塞贝斯的质疑
there wasn't a good answer 并没有什么完善的答案
to Cebes' objection. 不过我想说
But I want to say, 站在柏拉图的立场来说
on Plato's behalf, 或者至少是从这个论点的角度来说
or at least on behalf of the argument, 苏格拉底不应该以如此奇怪的
Socrates should never have concluded the argument 一个限定式的结论
with this odd qualifying phrase that 灵魂"是或几乎是不可摧毁的"来结束
the soul is "indestructible or nearly so." 他应该说灵魂就是不可摧毁的  结束
He should've just said the soul is indestructible, full stop. 毕竟
After all, 在前提一  二  和三成立的情况下
if we have premises one, two, and three-- 只有合成的事物才能被摧毁
only composite things can be destroyed, 只有会改变的事物才是合成的
only changing things are composite, 无形的事物不会改变
invisible things don't change-- 如果把这些结合起来
if you put those together, 就可以得到四  无形的事物不能被摧毁
you get four, invisible things can't be destroyed. 你是不会得出更加宽泛的结论
You don't get the more modest conclusion, 无形的东西不能被摧毁
"invisible things can't be destroyed 或是很难被摧毁
or it's a whole lot harder to destroy them." 如果我们有前提一  二  和三
If we've got one, two and three, 我们应该得到更加肯定的结论
we're entitled to the bold conclusion: 无形的东西不能被摧毁  句号
"invisible things can't be destroyed, period." 没了
Full stop. 然后如果前提五成立
And then if five is true, 如果灵魂真的是无形的
if the soul really is invisible, 我们就可以得到结论六
we're entitled to conclude six, 灵魂是不能被摧毁的
the soul can't be destroyed-- 而不是  灵魂不能被摧毁
not, the soul can't be destroyed, 或是很难很难被摧毁
or if it can be destroyed it's very, 需要很长很长的时间摧毁
very hard and takes a very, very long time. 我们理应得出更肯定的结论
We are, rather, entitled to the bolder conclusion, 灵魂不能被摧毁
the soul can't be destroyed, 句号  完了  讨论结束
full stop, period, end of the discussion. 所以说尽管苏格拉底
So despite the fact that Socrates 得出了这个相对无力的结论
draws this weaker conclusion, 对我来说  他提供的论证似乎
it seems to me that the argument he's offered us, 如果论证正确
if it works at all, 促使我们得出了更加肯定的结论
entitles us to draw the bolder conclusion. 不是"灵魂是或几乎不可摧毁"
Not that the soul is indestructible or nearly so, 而是"灵魂确实不可摧毁"
but that the soul is indestructible. 也许柏拉图意识到了这一点
Well, maybe Plato realized that; 也许这就是为什么
maybe that's the reason why 他根本没顾上回答塞贝斯问题的原因
he doesn't bother giving an answer to Cebes. 也许他想让读者意识到
Maybe it's an invitation to the reader to recognize that 还有一个比剧中的人物所提出的
there's a better argument here than even the characters 更好的论证存在  我们不知道
in the drama have noticed--don't know, 我们无从知道柏拉图的想法
don't know what Plato had in mind. 不过无论如何
But at any rate, 我们的问题都不应该是
our question shouldn't be, "柏拉图在想什么"
"What was Plato thinking?" 而是"这个论点合理吗"
but, "Is the argument any good?" 我们得到关于灵魂的不朽结论了吗
Do we now have an argument for the immortality of the soul? 毕竟  如果灵魂不能被摧毁
After all, if the soul can't be destroyed, 那它就是不朽的
it's immortal. 这是一个好的论点吗
Is it a good argument or not? 西米亚司提出了另一个质疑
Simmias raises a different objection. 西米亚司说我们不应该下结论说
Simmias says we can't conclude that 灵魂是或几乎不可摧毁的
the soul is indestructible, or nearly so, 或者其他的结论
or whatever, 因为我们不应相信四所说的
because we should not believe the sub-conclusion four, 无形的物体不能被摧毁
invisible things can't be destroyed. 西米亚司认为无形的物体能够被摧毁
Simmias says invisible things can be destroyed. 如果这一点成立
And if that's true, 那么当然  关于灵魂是不可毁灭
then of course we no longer have an argument 或者是几乎不可摧毁的论证就不成立了
for the indestructibility or near indestructibility of the soul. 因为即使灵魂是无形的
Because even if the soul is invisible, 即前提五  然而
five, if nonetheless, 如果与苏格拉底所声称的相反
contrary to what Socrates was claiming, 无形的事物能够被摧毁的
invisible things can be destroyed, 那么无形的灵魂也能被摧毁
then maybe the invisible soul can be destroyed as well. 西米亚司并不是仅仅草率地断言
Now, Simmias doesn't merely assert, boldly, 无形的物体能被摧毁
invisible things can be destroyed. 他给出了能被摧毁
He offers an example of an invisible thing 但无形的事物的例子  音乐
that can be destroyed--harmony. 他开始讨论音乐
He starts talking about the harmony 由弦乐器演奏出来的音乐
that gets produced by a stringed instrument; 比方说竖琴
let's say a harp. 事实上  他说
In fact, he says, 这是一个非常值得我们深思的例子
this is a very nice example for us to think about 因为有人提出  西米亚司说道
because some people have suggested--Simmias says-- 有些人提出心灵就好像音乐
some people have suggested that the mind is like harmony. 似乎心灵就像躯体演奏的音乐
It's as though the mind is like harmony of the body. 为了更加详细完整地说明这个类比
So to spell out the analogy a bit more fully, 我待会儿会做更详细的解释
and I'll say a bit more about it later, 音乐之于竖琴就好像精神之于躯体
harmony is to the harp as the mind is to the body. 他说  有人提出了这样的观点
He says, there are people who put forward views like this, 不管怎么说  音乐是肯定能被损毁的
and at any rate harmony can certainly be destroyed. 你不能看见音乐  对吧
You don't see harmony, right? 音乐是无形的
Harmony is invisible. 但尽管如此
But for all that, 你能够损毁音乐
you can destroy harmony. 一台竖琴正演奏旋律  演奏美妙的音乐
So there's the harp making its melodious, harmonious sounds, 这时有人拿着一把斧子去砍这台竖琴
and then you take an ax to the harp, 梆  梆  梆  嚓  嚓  嚓
bang, bang, bang, chop, chop, chop, 或者用个锤子  或其他什么东西
or a hammer or whatever; 这时音乐就被损毁了
now the harmony's been destroyed. 所以说尽管它是无形的
So even though it's invisible, 你能够通过破坏乐器这个音乐的载体
you can destroy it by destroying the musical instrument 来破坏音乐
on which it depends. 当然
And of course, 存在这种顾虑  对吧
there's the worry, right? 如果精神之于躯体就像音乐之于乐器的话
If the mind is like the harmony of the body, 人们就可能通过破坏躯体这个精神的载体
then maybe you could destroy the mind, the soul, 来破坏心灵  或者灵魂
by destroying the body on which the mind depends. 所以现在问题的关键点是
So the crucial point right now is that thinking about 音乐作为"无形的物体不能被摧毁"
harmony is offered as a counterexample to the generalization 这个结论的反例是否合适
that invisible things can't be destroyed. 音乐是无形的
Harmony is invisible. 音乐能够被摧毁
Harmony can be destroyed. 所以无形的物体是能被摧毁的
So invisible things can be destroyed. 因此你错了  苏格拉底
So you're wrong, Socrates, 你的"无形的物体不能被摧毁"(是错的)
when you say invisible things can't be destroyed. 即使我们承认灵魂也是无形的
So even if we grant that the soul is invisible as well, 但灵魂也可能是一种能被摧毁的无形事物
maybe the soul also is an invisible thing that can be destroyed. 这是极好的质疑
That's a great objection. 这是一条值得我们认真探讨的质疑
It's an objection worth taking very seriously. 但奇怪的是
And the oddity is, 苏格拉底  并没有以他应有的
Socrates doesn't respond to it in the way that 正确的方式
he should have, 对这一点做出回应
in the way that he needed to. 相反  苏格拉底花费了很多时间在
Socrates instead spends some time worrying about 讨论灵魂是否真的像音乐一样
the question, "Is the soul really like harmony or not?" 这个比喻
Is this metaphor-- 探讨心灵和躯体之间的关系
think about the relationship between the mind 与音乐和竖琴的关系是否类似
and body as similar to the relationship between harmony 苏格拉底花费了一些时间批判这个类比
and a harp--Socrates spends some time criticizing that analogy. 待会我们再继续说这个
Now, in a few minutes I'll turn to the question, 关于苏格拉底是如何批判这个类比的问题
what about Socrates' criticisms of the analogy? 这是否是有力的批判
Are they good criticisms or not? 但即使这是有力的批判
But even if they are good criticisms, 我想说的是
I want to say, 这并不足以支持你的论证  苏格拉底
that's not good enough to help your argument Socrates. 即使我们说
Even if we were to say, 你知道吗
you know what? 精神与音乐并不相似
The mind isn't very much like harmony at all. 这个类比也确实比较烂
That analogy really stinks. 那又如何
So what? 西米亚司要给苏格拉底的论证挑刺
All that Simmias needs to cause problems for Socrates' argument 只需要说明音乐是无形的且音乐能被摧毁
is the claim that harmony is invisible and harmony can be destroyed. 只要这些成立
As long as that is true, 我们就不能再相信无形的事物不能被摧毁
we can't continue to believe that invisible things can't be destroyed. 苏格拉底所需要做的
So what Socrates needs to do is to say 要么是说明音乐是不能被摧毁的
either harmony can't be destroyed, 但显然它是能够被摧毁的
but pretty obviously it can, 由乐器发出的乐声是能够被摧毁的
the melodious sounds coming out of an instrument can be destroyed. 那么  他需要表明
So he would need to argue then, 也许  音乐不是真的无形
perhaps, that harmony is not really invisible. 如果他能向我们展示这一点
If he could show us, 如果他能说服我们
if he could convince us, 音乐不是真的无形
that harmony is not really invisible, 那么关于无形的物体不能被摧毁
then we would no longer have a counterexample to the claim 这个观点的反例就不存在了
that the invisible can't be destroyed, 这条论证就能继续成立
and the argument could still then proceed as it was before. 那才是苏格拉底应该采取的应对
So that's what Socrates should have done. 他应该说
He should have said, 你知道么
"You know what? 音乐不见得是无形的
Harmony is not really invisible," 或者说  它不能被摧毁
or "It can't be destroyed." 但实际上并没有一点跟以上相关的信息
But there's not a whiff of that, 至少在我们现有的对话录当中
at least in the dialogue as we've got it, 我都没有看到一点相关的信息
not a whiff of that as far as I can see. 苏格拉底从没说过
Socrates never says, 西米亚司  你的质疑错在这里
"Simmias, here is where your objection goes wrong. 音乐是真的无形  也不能真的被摧毁
Harmony is not really invisible, can't really be destroyed, 或者类似的话
whatever it is. 所以  我们不见得真有一个反例
So we don't really have a counterexample." 相反  他纠结于这样一个问题
Instead, he gets hung up on this question, 这是一个好的类比吗
"Is it a good analogy? 这是一种思考心灵的合适方式吗
Is it a good way for thinking about the mind or not?" 但即使它不是
But even if it isn't, 也不能拯救这条论证
that wouldn't save the argument. 现在  我将花一点时间来说明
Now, I am going to take some time to think about 音乐是否是一个合适的类比
whether or not harmony is a good analogy, 因为我认为这确实是一个好类比
because I actually think it is a good analogy. 我觉得关于音乐的
I think what's going on in the harmony-- 心灵像音乐的这个建议
the suggestion that we should think about the mind like harmony, 好比它是躯体演奏的音乐这种提法
as though it was the harmony of the body-- 是一种早期的现实主义者尝试表达的观点
is an early attempt to state the physicalist view. 对于心灵的探讨
Talk about the mind, 现实主义者认为
says the physicalist, 只不过是一种谈论躯体的方式
is just a way of talking about the body. 或者  更确切地说
Or, more carefully, 这是谈论躯体在正常运转时
it's a way of talking about certain things the body can do 具备的某些能力的一种方式
when it's functioning properly, 当它被调整的很好时
when it's well tuned, 就像
Just like, 谈论音乐或者乐声
talk about the harmony or the melodious sounds 或者由竖琴演奏出的其他乐曲
or what have you of the harp, 是一种
is a way-- 这是一种谈论竖琴具备的能力的方式
these things are a way of talking about what things the harp can do. 当它被调好音并正常运转时
It can produce melodious, 它能够产生旋律
harmonious sounds when it's functioning properly, 能产生和谐的乐声
when it's well tuned. 所以关于音乐的类比
So the harmony analogy is, 我认为是一种尝试
I think, an attempt, 一种并不坏的尝试
and not a bad attempt, 一个探讨现实主义者
at gesturing towards the question, 如何思考心灵的尝试
how do physicalists think about the mind? 当我尝试向你们解释
Now, when I tried to get you 现实主义者如何认识心灵的时候
to grasp how physicalists think about the mind, 我列举了电脑  机器人这样的例子
I used examples about computers and robots and the like. 而不出意外的
Well, it's not remotely surprising 柏拉图没有使用这样的类比
that Plato doesn't use those kinds of analogies. 他没有电脑
He doesn't have computers; 也没见过机器人
he doesn't have robots. 但他有具备某些能力的现实实体
Still, he has physical objects that can do things. 该物体是否能做一些事情取决于
And the ability to do things depends on the proper functioning 它是否正常运转
of the physical object. 因此  我认为他可以预见
And so, I think he can see that 二元论外还存在另一种理论
there's this alternative to his dualism. 他料想到现实主义者会说
He can see you could be a physicalist 心灵是依赖于躯体的
and say that the mind is dependent on the body; 心灵只是一种在谈论到
the mind is just a way of talking about 躯体正常工作时所具备的能力罢了
what the body can do when it's working properly. 它的这种依赖性与
It's dependent just the same way that, 例如
well, for example, 音乐依赖于乐器实体一致
harmony is dependent upon the physical instrument. 所以我想
So I think 这是一次很好的
it's a very nice attempt 讨论二元论之外的现实主义观点的尝试
to discuss the physicalist alternative to Plato's dualism. 这也是我们值得花点时间来问自己
And that's why it will be worth taking some time to ask ourselves, 柏拉图会对此作出怎样的反驳呢
well, what about Plato's objections then? 如果他能说服我们
If he can convince us that 灵魂不是身体奏出的音乐
the soul is not like harmony of the body, 这也许会给现实主义者提出新的问题
maybe that will be some sort of problem for the physicalists. 待会儿我们再继续讨论这些
So I'll come back to that in a few more minutes. 但首先  考虑一下我之前强调过的观点
But first, let's worry about the point that I was emphasizing earlier, 那就是  即使灵魂与音乐并不十分相似
namely, even if the soul's not very much like harmony, 那又怎样
so what? 如果音乐确实是无形的
If harmony really is invisible 并且音乐确实能被摧毁
and harmony really can be destroyed, 那么无形的事物就能被摧毁了
then invisible things can be destroyed. 即使灵魂与音乐完全不相似
Even if the soul's nothing like-- 从现实主义者或其他角度来看
that's not a good analogy for thinking 这并不是一个好类比
about the physicalist position or what have you-- 那又怎样
so what? 如果有一些无形的事物能被摧毁
If some invisible things can be destroyed 而音乐是其中的一个例子
and harmony is an example of that, 那么的确
then, by golly, 接下来
it's going to follow that 我们不能从灵魂的不可见性
we can't conclude from the invisibility of the soul 得到灵魂不能被摧毁的结论
that the soul cannot be destroyed. 即使苏格拉底没有回应这条质疑
So even though Socrates doesn't respond to that objection, 我们也要替苏格拉底问
we need to ask on Socrates' behalf, 有回应这条质疑的潜在答案吗
is there a possible answer to this objection? 我认为在讨论之前
And I think there are at least the beginnings of one. 我们不得不问
We have to ask: 当我们说
when we say, 无形的物体不能被摧毁时
"invisible things can't be destroyed," "无形"这个词究竟是什么意思
what did we mean by "invisible?" 我想分别罗列出三种不同的可能解释
And I want to distinguish three different possible interpretations, 三种不同的说明
three different claims. "无形"的意思是
So invisible means, 一  第一种可能  不能被看到
one, there's one possibility, can't be seen. 二  第二种可能  不能被察觉到
Two, different possibility, can't be observed. 三  无形的又一种可能的概念
Three, different possible interpretation of invisible, 不能被探测到
can't be detected. 我们必须问自己
What we have to ask ourselves is, 当苏格拉底提出他的论证时
when Socrates puts his argument forward, 他采用的是哪一种意思
which of these did he have in mind? 首先 我们要弄清这些概念之间的区别
First, let's be clear on how these things are different. 有一些事物看不见
Some things can't be seen 但可以通过其他方式感觉到
but can be sensed some other way. 色彩能被看见
So colors can be seen; 味道不能被看见
smells cannot be seen, 但是气味
but of course smells-- 咖啡的气味可以通过五感被感觉到
the smell of coffee--can be sensed through the five senses. 声音不能被看到
Sounds can't be seen, 它们是无形的
they're not visible, 但它们能被感觉到
but for all that they can be sensed. 人能够通过耳朵听到它们
You can hear them through your ears. 所以  别再纠结于
So, without getting hung up on "无形"这个单词的字面意思
what does the English word "invisible" mean, 我们注意到
let's just notice that ”不能通过眼睛看见“和"不能通过一种
there's a difference between saying "it can't be seen through the eyes" 或其他感观觉察到"之间有区别
and "can't be observed through one sense or the other." 之后前提三就是一个完全不同的概念
And then three is a different notion altogether, 一个更有力的概念
a stronger notion altogether. 可能存在无法被五感中的
There might be things that can't even be detected 任意一种探测到的事物
through any of the five senses. 前提三说的
The number three-- 我不仅看不到它
not only can't I see it, 也不能尝出它
I can't taste it, 不能听到它
I can't hear it, 不能闻到它
I can't smell it, 不能触摸到它  对吧
can't touch it, right? 前提三里的"无形"是这种更宽泛的解释
The number three is invisible in this much bolder way. 它完全不能被五感探测到
It can't be detected at all by the five senses-- 它不能被探测到
can't be detected in terms of its-- 那它也不会留下痕迹  对吧
it doesn't leave traces behind, right? 我看不到恐龙
I don't see dinosaurs, 但是恐龙的化石留下了它们的行迹
but of course they leave traces behind in fossils. 你研究了它产生的效果之后
There's a way in which you can talk about it 就可以讨论它
being detected by its effects. 好了  再强调一遍
All right. So again, 不要纠结在英语中"无形"的解释上
don't get hung up on what does the English word invisible mean. 我们问问自己
Let's just ask ourselves, 无形的这个概念
what notion of invisibility-- 如果我们用这个单词的三种解释之一
if we'll use the word between these three ways-- 那么苏格拉底的论证用的是哪一个呢
what notion did Socrates' argument turn on? 最直接的方式
Well, the most natural way 是用解释一来解释苏格拉底的论证
to start by interpreting him is with number one. 当他说  无形的东西不改变时
When he says, "Invisible things don't change," 他的意思是
what he means is, 看不见的东西不会改变
things that you can't see don't change, 在前提四中继续沿用刚才"无形"的解释
and so--continue to interpret invisible in number four the same way-- 无形的东西不能被毁灭
invisible things can't be destroyed. 采用第一种解释  他说的是
On the first interpretation what he'd be saying is, 如果你的眼睛不能看到它
"If you can't see it with your eyes, 它就不能被摧毁
it can't be destroyed." 现在的问题是
Now, the trouble is, 音乐的例子表明这并不成立
harmony shows that that's not so. 按照解释一  音乐确实是看不见的
Harmony is indeed invisible in sense number one. 眼睛看不到音乐
You cannot see it with your eyes. 尽管如此
But for all that, 音乐能够被摧毁
it can be destroyed. 如果苏格拉底按第一种解释来说明无形
So if what Socrates means by invisibility is the first notion, 即不能通过眼睛看到
can't been seen with your eyes, 那么这个论证就不成立了
then the argument's not any good. 音乐的确是个很有说服力的反例
Harmony is a pretty compelling counterexample. 但可能苏格拉底所说的无形不是这个定义
But maybe that's not what Socrates means by invisible. 可能不是解释一
Maybe instead of one, 而是解释二
he means two. 当他说灵魂无形
When he talks about the soul being invisible 以及无形的事物不能被摧毁时
and invisible things being indestructible, 这里的无形可能是不能
maybe he means things that can't be observed 通过五感感知到的意思
through any of your five senses. 实际上  我觉得这正是他想要表达的
Now, in point of fact, i think that is what he meant. 我快速的引用一段
Let me just give a quick quote. 在我们这个版本的二十九页
In our edition, this is page 29. 你们可能注意到了
Some of you may have noticed that 我们这一版上有挺小的段落码
there are little standardized paginations in our edition as well. 这是学术的编码
So it's in the academy paginations, 第七十九段
number 79; 他阐述了有形的事物
he's talking about the difference 与无形的事物之间的不同
between the visible and the invisible things, 椅子和型相的对比
chairs versus the forms. 他说  信件  椅子  树  石头
And he says, "These latter, chairs, trees, stones, 你能看得见摸得着
you could touch and see 或者以其他感知方式感觉到
and perceive with the other senses. 但是那些一直保持不变的事物
But those that always remain the same, 如型相  只能通过思考推理才能领会
the forms, can only be grasped by the reasoning power of the mind. 它们是看不到的  是无形的
They are not seen but are invisible." 所以  我认为这一点很清楚
So I think it's pretty clear that 苏格拉底在开始讨论有形与无形时
when Socrates starts talking about what's visible versus invisible, 他并未拘泥于视觉感受
he doesn't mean to limit himself to vision; 他谈论的是五感的感知
he means to be talking about all of the five senses. 所以  当我们说  他说
So when we say--when he says-- 无形的事物不能被摧毁时
"Invisible things can't be destroyed," 他指的是你看不见摸不到听不着
he means the things that you can't see or touch 感觉不到的事物
or hear or feel-- 或者其他
whatever it is-- 视觉  触觉  嗅觉  味觉
see, touch, smell, taste. 这样的事物都不能被摧毁
Those things can't be destroyed. 注意  如果我们这样解释他的论证
Now, notice that if that's the way we interpret his argument, 音乐就不再是反例了
harmony no longer works as a counterexample. 按照"无形"的第一解释"不能看到的"
Harmony was invisible when we meant definition number one, 音乐才是无形的
can't be seen. 但如果用解释二
But it's not invisible 音乐就不再无形了
if we mean definition number two, (解释二)即不能感知
can't be sensed, 不能观察
can't be observed. 因为耳朵能够感受到音乐
Harmony can be sensed through the ears, 在这种情况下  它就不再是反例了
in which case it's not a counterexample. 对于结论四  音乐作为反例亦不成立
It's not a counterexample to four. 四说  无形的事物不能被摧毁
Four says, "Invisible things can't be destroyed." 苏格拉底要说的应该是
And what Socrates should have said is, 就无形的感官含义  音乐不是无形的
harmony is not invisible in the relevant sense of invisible, 因为人们能够听到音乐
since it can be sensed. 但是注意  这一点很重要
But--and this would be the crucial point--notice, 苏格拉底应当继续论证
Socrates should've continued, 从这方面讲灵魂是无形的
the soul is invisible in that sense. 你看不到灵魂的样子
You don't see the soul; 尝不到灵魂的味道
you don't taste the soul; 无法触摸到灵魂
you don't touch the soul; 也听不到灵魂的声音
you don't hear the soul. 所以我们如果明白
So if we understand 论证建立在无形第二种解释的基础之上
the argument in terms of the second interpretation of invisible, 看上去论证仍然成立
it looks as though the argument still goes through. 西米亚司的反例失败了
Simmias' counterexample fails. 从感官的角度而言  音乐并非无形
Harmony is not invisible in the relevant sense, 无形的事物不能被摧毁
so it could still be true 这条论证仍然成立
that invisible things can't be destroyed. 既然灵魂从感官的角度来说是无形的
Since the soul is invisible in that sense, 那么就能推出灵魂不能被摧毁
it would follow that the soul can't be destroyed. 然而  即使 西米亚司的质疑
However, even if Simmias' objection, 他所举的反例
his particular counterexample, 音乐  不再成立
harmony, fails, 这并不代表
that doesn't mean that 我们就能接受这条论证
we should still accept the argument 因为可能还存在其它的反例
because there might be a different counterexample. 这里给出我的见解
So here's my proposal. 假如我们用电波而不是音乐来作为反例
Suppose we think not about harmony but radio waves. 电波是感觉不到的
Radio waves are not sensible. 我们无法观察电波
They are not observable. 你看不到电波
You don't see a radio wave. 你摸不到电波
You can't touch a radio wave; 你闻不到电波的味道
you can't smell a radio wave, 有趣的是
and interestingly enough, 你无法直接听到电波
you can't hear radio waves. 但是即便如此
But of course, for all that, 电波是可以被摧毁的
they can be destroyed. 即使我们同意苏格拉底所说
So even if we grant that what Socrates meant 无形意味着不能被观察到
by invisible was "cannot be observed," 我们仍然得赞同西米亚司的说法
we still have to say, with Simmias, 第四条不成立
"You know, four is just not true. 一些无形的事物是可以被摧毁的
Some invisible things can be destroyed." 即使从感官角度上讲  电波亦是无形的
Radio waves can be destroyed even though 但它可以被摧毁
they're invisible in the relevant sense. 对吗  有问题吗
Yeah? Question? 好的  所以你的意思是
Okay. So the suggestion was, 电波有点像型相
radio waves are a bit like the forms. 但它不是型相
They're not forms, 但是它以那种方式完美的存在
but they're perfect in that way. 是这样吗
Was that the thought? 啊  我理解错了
Ah! Okay, I misunderstood. 你提出的问题是这样
So the question is rather, 看  电波并不像型相
"Look, radio waves are not like forms," 答案是  这就是问题的所在
to which the answer is "Yes, that's exactly the problem." 它们是无形的
They are invisible, 就像型相一样  但是它们可以被摧毁掉
like the forms, but unlike the forms they're destructible. 这恰恰就是我们对灵魂的疑问
And that's precisely why we've got to worry about the soul. 灵魂的无形是等同于形式的型相
Is the soul invisible in the way the forms are, 同样不可摧毁呢
being indestructible, 还是等同于电波的无形
or is it invisible in the way that radio waves are, 能被摧毁呢
destructible? 同样  我想说的关键不是
Now again, my point here is not to say, 柏拉图  你这个傻瓜
"Oh, you idiot, Plato! 为什么你没想到电波呢
Why didn't you think of radio waves?" 我们的问题不是
Our question is not, 柏拉图遗漏了什么他不该遗漏的
was Plato overlooking something he should've thought of? 而是他的论证成立与否
It's, does his argument work or not? 无形的事物不能被摧毁  这是否成立
Is it true that the invisible things can't be destroyed? 对我而言  一些
And it seems to me that some things 在感官意义上不可见的事物
that are invisible in the relevant sense, 电波就是个例子
radio waves being an example of that, 是可以被摧毁的
can be destroyed. 所以即使从感官意义说  灵魂是无形的
So even though the soul is also invisible in the relevant sense, 它也同样可能被摧毁
maybe it can be destroyed as well. 现在  这个答案
Now, the answer, 对我来说
it seems to me, 我能想象在这个问题上
the only answer I can imagine 苏格拉底或柏拉图给出唯一答案是
Socrates or Plato giving at this point, is to say, 我需要对无形下个不同的定义
"Look, I need a different definition of invisible. 不是解释二  而是解释三
Not two, but three. 不要讨论我们能感觉到什么
Don't talk about what we can sense; 而是探讨我们能探测到什么
talk about what we can detect." 电波能被探测到  对吧
Radio waves can be detected, right? 收音机就能做到
After all, radios do that. 打开你的收音机
You turn on your radio, 电波从附近路过  砰
the radio wave's passing by, boom-- 调到合适的频率  收到电波了
properly tuned, you detect it. 它转变为我们听得到的声音
It turns it into these sounds that we can hear. 我们能探测到电波是因为它对收音机
We can detect radio waves on the basis of their effects on radios, 及其他事物有影响
among other things. 也许他需要采用一个更有力
So maybe by invisible he should've moved to this stronger, 宽泛的"无形"定义
bolder definition of invisible. 一个事物无形  那么它不仅不能被看见
Let's call something invisible not only if it can't seen, 也不仅是不能被观察到
not only if it can't be observed, 而且还始终无法被探测到
but if it can't be detected at all. 毕竟  事物的型相是探测不到的
Look, the forms, after all, can't be detected. 收音机接收不到数字3
There's no radio for the number three that will tell-- 盖格计数器也不会告诉你
There's no Geiger counter to tell you 数字3或类似东西是否在附近  对吧
the number three is nearby or something, right? 所以柏拉图仍然能坚持  无形的事物
So Plato could still insist things that are invisible, 那些不可探测到的物体
in the sense of undetectable, 是不能被摧毁的
can't be destroyed. 而电波可以被探测到
But radio waves, they're detectable. 现在我们用无法探测
So they're not a counterexample, 来解释"无形"这个概念
now that we interpret 它就不再是反例了
the relevant notion of invisibility as undetectability. 这样柏拉图不就可以继续声称
So couldn't Plato continue to claim, 完全无形的事物
things that are fully invisible, 即探测不到的事物
meaning undetectable, 它们不能被摧毁
those things can't be destroyed. 电波这里可就不是反例了
Radio waves aren't a counterexample to that. 我认为柏拉图可能会这样说
I think maybe Plato could say that. 但是如果我们
But, if we give him four, 在定义"无形"为彻底探测不到时承认结论四
where we read invisible as meaning utterly undetectable, 是否承认结论五就不太明确了
it's no longer so clear to me that we can give him five. 灵魂是无形的吗
Is the soul invisible? 当"无形"指的是看不到时  它是的
Well, it was, when by invisibility we meant can't be seen; 当"无形"指的是
it was, when by invisibility 尝不到摸不到听不到闻不到时  它还是的
we meant can't be tasted or touched or heard or smelled. 但如果"无形"指的是不能探测到
But is it still invisible if by invisibility 灵魂是否依旧无形的呢
we mean can't be detected? 是否依然不能被探测到呢
Is it true that the soul can't be detected? 我必须说  我认为这种说法不再正确了
I've got to say, I think it's no longer right. 一旦我们以这种定义解释无形
Once we interpret invisibility that way, 灵魂就是可探测的
the soul is detectable in just the way-- 不是完全的
not literally just the way, 而是某种程度上
but in something similar to the way-- 和电波可以被探测到是一样的
that radio waves are detectable. 如果你将电波和收音机联系起来
If you hook a radio wave up with a radio, 你就知道的电波存在
you can tell the radio is-- 因为收音机所做的正是播放
radio wave--was there because of what the radio's doing, 电波转换而来的声音
giving off these sounds. 如果将灵魂和躯体联系在一起
If you hook a soul up to a body, 你就可以通过我的躯体做的事
you can tell the soul is there 知道灵魂的存在
by what the body is doing, 在与你们讨论哲学呢
discussing philosophy with you. 你能通过灵魂在你朋友身上的表现
You detect the presence of your friend's soul 来感受到这位朋友的灵魂
through its effects on your friend's body. 但是这意味着灵魂并非真的不可探测
But that means the soul isn't really undetectable. 如果灵魂并不是不能探测到
But if the soul's not really undetectable, 从这个定义上来说  灵魂并非无形
it's not really invisible in the relevant sense. 如果它并非真的无形
And if it's not really invisible, 那么即使这种"无形"的定义下的
then even if there is a notion of invisible, 一些无形的事物的确不能被摧毁
such that things that are invisible in that sense can't be destroyed, 这种定义下灵魂也不是无形的
the soul's not invisible in that sense. 我用这么长的时间来讨论这条论证是因为
I've gone over this argument at such length because-- 我希望这很清楚
I hope it's clear-- 我认为这是一条十分有趣的论证
I think it's a pretty interesting argument. "精简论"确实引人入胜
The argument from simplicity is quite fascinating. 它的论点是  如果灵魂没有"部件"的话
The idea that you couldn't break the soul 就不能被摧毁
if it didn't have parts, 而知道它没有"部件"是因为它是无形的
and the way to tell that it doesn't have parts is because it's invisible, 因为无形的事物没法有”部分”
because invisible things can't have parts, 这条论证很难驳倒
that's a quite difficult argument to pin down, 它到底是成立还是不成立
does it work or does it not work. 不过我认为  随着我们深入思考
But I think, as we think it all through, 我们的结论是  它不成立
we have to conclude it doesn't work. 



 Chapter 8: 柏拉图 (四) ：灵魂永恒与否的论证（续）


我们之前已经讨论过
We've been working our way 柏拉图对灵魂不朽的论证
through Plato's arguments for the immortality of the soul. 上节课我花了些时间
And last time I spent a fair bit of time working 来反驳他的论证
through objections to, 不是我们讲的最后一个论证
not quite the last argument we're going to look at, 而是倒数第二个论证
but the penultimate argument, 柏拉图试图论证灵魂的单一性
in which Plato tries to argue for the simplicity of the soul. 你们还记得这一系列观点就是
The set of connected ideas, you'll recall, were these: 柏拉图想说明
that Plato wants to suggest that 要摧毁某样东西就得先令它分崩离析
in order to be destroyed you've got to have parts; 从本质上来说
to destroy something is to 摧毁某样东西就是要让它支离破碎
basically sort of take its parts apart. 如果他能让大家相信灵魂是单一的
If he could only convince us that the soul was simple, 那他就能下灵魂不可摧毁这样的结论
it would follow that it was indestructible and, 从而实现灵魂不朽
hence, immortal. 柏拉图问到  有什么证据能
He asks, what's our evidence 证明某些东西是不可摧毁的呢
for some things being indestructible? 哪些东西是单一的呢
What kinds of things are simple? 他说这些东西就是
Well, these are-- 不可见的东西
he then goes on to claim--invisible things, 不发生变化的东西
things that don't change. 毕竟
After all, 所谓变化就是事物各部分的重组
changing is a matter of the rearrangement of the parts. 因此  如果某个东西可以变化
And so, if something can change, 那它就不单一
it can't be simple. 它也许就可以被摧毁
Maybe it could be destroyed. 但如果我们相信
But if we could become convinced that 灵魂不是复合物
the soul was not composite, 如果它是那种不能变化的东西
if it was something that couldn't change, 那么它就是单一的
then it would simple. 那么也许灵魂就不可摧毁
Perhaps then it would indestructible. 然后他继续说
And then he goes on to suggest that 灵魂的不可见性就是
the invisibility of the soul is evidence 它不能变化的证据
for it's being changeless, 进而推出它是单一的  所以它不可摧毁
and hence simple, and hence indestructible. 这就是我们上节课讨论过的论证
So that's the argument we worked through last time. 我还花时间给大家讲了
And I spent a fair bit of time suggesting 如果仔细推敲柏拉图对不可见下的定义
that if you pin down precisely what Plato means by invisible, 这条论证实际上并不成立
the argument doesn't actually go through. 在讲新课之前
Before leaving that argument, 我想再对这个论证做几点评论
there are a couple of extra remarks I want to make about it. 首先  我们也许不应该这么快就接受
First, we probably shouldn't have been so quick 灵魂不变
to want to buy into the suggestion that 这种说法
the soul is changeless. 毕竟  如果你仔细想想
After all, if you think about it, 至少从表面上看
it seems that at least on the face of it 灵魂确实是变化的
the soul does indeed change. 比如你有时觉得天很热
On one day you believe, for example, that it's hot; 有时又觉得天很冷
on another day you believe that it's cold. 有时你觉得
On one day you believe that 某人是个好人
so and so is a nice person; 过几天你就会认为
on the next day you believe that 这人卑鄙无耻
so and so is a mean person. 你想要学钢琴
You desire to learn the piano, 但过两天你就又不想学了
the next day you give up on that desire. 你的信念  目标  计划  欲望
Your beliefs, your goals, your intentions, your desires-- 这些东西全都在不断变化
these things are all constantly changing. 所以至少从表面上看
And so, at least on the face of it, 我们似乎有充分的理由说灵魂
it looks as though we might well want to say the soul-- 假如我们确实相信有灵魂的话
if we do believe there are souls-- 因为灵魂包括思想和信念
the soul is changing as well, 所以灵魂也是在不断变化的
in terms of what thoughts and beliefs it's housing. 所以我们一开始就应该怀疑
So we should have been skeptical 持如下观点的论证
in the first place of any argument that said, 即根据灵魂的不可见性
based on the invisibility of the soul, 可以推断它是不变的
we can conclude that it's changeless. 事实上灵魂并非一成不变的
It doesn't seem to be in fact changeless. 更近一步说  我们应该
Furthermore, we should be, 或者我们至少应该
or at least we might well be, 对灵魂的单一性持怀疑态度
skeptical of the claim that the soul is simple. 实际上  柏拉图自己在其他对话中
Indeed, Plato himself, in other dialogues, 也驳斥了灵魂的单一性
argues against the simplicity of the soul. 这并不意味着他在其他对话中就是对的
Now, that doesn't mean he's right in the other dialogues, 但至少表明  我们不应对这条假设
but at least suggests that we shouldn't be so ready to assume 确信无疑
that sort of position is correct. 在著名的《理想国》一书中
In The Republic, famously, 柏拉图一直在论证
Plato goes on to argue 灵魂至少可以分为三个不同部分
that the soul has at least three different parts. 分别是  理性部分  掌管推理
There's a rational part that's in charge of reasoning; 精神部分  这部分有点像意志
there's a spirited part that's sort of like the will; 还有一部分与欲望有关
there's a part that has to do with appetite, 像食欲  性欲这类欲望等等
desires for food, drink, sex, what have you. 柏拉图在其他场合说过灵魂一点也不单一
Plato elsewhere argues the soul is not simple at all. 也许这并不令人惊讶
So perhaps it shouldn't shock us 柏拉图根据灵魂不变
that the argument he's sketching here 本质是灵魂不可见
for the simplicity of the soul based on the changeless, 推出灵魂的单一性
invisible nature of the soul-- 也许我们看到这个论证说不通
perhaps it shouldn't shock us 也不该太过惊讶
that that argument doesn't succeed after all. 最后  尽管我之前替
Finally, although I gave Plato, 柏拉图做了这样的假设
previously, the assumption that 只要我们能相信灵魂的单一性
if only we could establish the simplicity of the soul, 那么就能得到灵魂不可毁灭的结论
it would follow that soul was indestructible-- 毕竟你不能把灵魂撕成碎片
after all, you couldn't break a soul 如果它压根就没有碎片
by tearing its pieces apart if it didn't have pieces, 没有组成部分
if it didn't have parts-- 尽管如此  我还是想说一下
nonetheless, I just want to register the thought that 单一的东西不可摧毁这一说法其实说不通
it's not actually obvious that simples can't be destroyed. 显然他们不能被某种
Well, they clearly can't be destroyed 特定的方法摧毁
by the particular method of destruction 比方说将其拆分
that involves taking them apart. 如果它们没有组成部分
If they don't have parts, 那你就无法拆分它们
you can't take them apart. 但话虽如此
But for all that, 从概念上来说
it still seems conceptually possible for a simple 还是可以通过以下方法来摧毁单一物的
to be destroyed in the following sense: 可以让它根本就没有存在过
it goes out of existence. 毕竟  单一物最初
After all, where did the simples come from 都是从哪来的呢
in the first place? 至少从逻辑角度来说
Well, at least from a logical point of view, 想象在某时某刻一个给定的单一物
it seems as though there's no difficulty in imagining 根本不存在  这看上去不难
that at one point a given simple didn't exist 在下个时刻  它突然就冒出来了
and then at the next point it popped into existence. 这是如何发生的呢
Well, how did that happen? 也许上帝会说
Maybe God said-- 上帝在创世之初说
God says at the beginning of Genesis, "要有光"
"Let there be light." 那可能他还说了
So maybe He says, "要有单一物"
"Let there be simples." 在某个给定的时间点  单一物并不存在
At a given moment they weren't there; 但下一刻  它就出现了
the next moment they were. 可能再过一会上帝又说
Well, after a while maybe God says, "让简单物湮灭吧"
"Let the simples no longer exist." 那么这一刻它存在
Given moment there they were; 下一刻它就消失了
the next moment, they no longer exist. 似乎这还蛮说得通的
Seems as though that idea makes sense, 因此即使我们同意灵魂是单一的
and so even if we agreed that the soul was simple, 即使我们赞成柏拉图的论证中
even if we granted everything in Plato's argument 关于这一点的所有内容
up to this point and said, 即"灵魂确实是单一的"
"the soul really is simple," 我们还是不能推出它是不朽的
it still wouldn't follow that it's immortal. 我们仍然会担心这单一的灵魂
We'd still have to worry about the possibility 会不会在某一时刻
that the simple soul might simply pop 砰的一下就不见了
out of existence at a given point, 可能就是砸肉体死亡的时刻
perhaps the very point when the body gets destroyed. 所以我更倾向于考虑
So I'm inclined to think 柏拉图最近的这条论证
that this most recent argument of Plato's-- 即源于单一性的论证
the argument from simplicity-- 不  这条论证也不成功
no, that's not successful either. 在讲下面内容之前
Before leaving that argument, 还有一点我想拿来跟大家讨论一下
there's one other piece of business I want to discuss. 我之前在旁边加了条脚注
This is a footnote that I put aside, 写着我的观点
a point that I put aside previously. 回忆一下  我们曾担心
You'll recall that we were worried about 有人会反驳我们思考灵魂的正确方式
the objection got raised the right way to think about 说灵魂就好像竖琴演奏的音乐
the soul is like the harmony of a harp. 本来这个例子是为了给
And this was originally offered 不可见的东西就不可被摧毁
as a counterexample to the thought 这一结论做反例的
that invisible things couldn't be destroyed. 但音乐是可以被破坏的
But harmony could be destroyed. 它不可见  但不可见的东西却能被摧毁
It was invisible, so invisible things could be destroyed. 但我注意到  我说过
But I noticed, I mentioned that, 无论它是不是这个论证的问题所在
look, whether or not this is a problem for the argument, 这本身就是个有趣的说法
it's an interesting suggestion in its own right. 因为关于精神之于肉体
Because the suggestion that the mind is to the body, 灵魂之于肉体
the soul is to the body, 就好像音乐之于弦乐器这样的假设
like harmony is to an instrument with strings, 对我来说  这都是一种早期尝试
seems to me to be an early attempt to describe something 来对物理主义者关于思想的观点进行描述
like the physicalist conception of the mind. 就好像音乐是由
Just as harmony is something 一台调好音的乐器演奏出来一样
that gets produced by a well-tuned instrument, 灵魂或精神是由
the soul or the mind is something that 一个正常运转的肉体产生的
gets produced by a well-tuned body. 柏拉图不太认同将精神当作是
Now Plato's got some objections to the suggestion 肉体产生的音乐这一说法
that we should think of the mind as the harmony of the body. 因此我想花一点时间
And so I want to take just a moment 讲讲他的这些异议
and talk about those objections because, 因为如果这些异议有说服力的话
of course, if they were compelling objections 我们就有理由怀疑物理主义者的观点
that might well give us reason to doubt the physicalist view. 无论柏拉图关于灵魂不朽的论证
Whether or not Plato's arguments for the immortality 是否成立
of the soul work, 他的很多论证
he might still have some good arguments 还是可以有力地反驳物理主义者的观点
against the physicalist conception. 但是在思考这些异议时
But in thinking about these objections, 要记住
it's important to bear in mind 它的含义在于
that it's only meant-- 关于音乐的类比仅仅只是
the harmony analogy is only meant-- 一种类比  懂吗
as just that, as an analogy. Right? 至少不应该
The claim isn't,  or at least it shouldn't be, 按照字面意思来理解"精神就是音乐"
understood as saying literally,  "the mind is harmony." 而应该是"精神像音乐"
It's rather, the mind is like harmony; 它是由肉体产生的某种东西
it's the sort of thing to the body 就像音乐之于竖琴那样
like harmony is to a harp, 它是由那些功能良好
something that can be produced by a well-functioning, 调准音色的物理实体产生的
well-tuned physical object. 调准音色的乐器能够发出旋律以及音乐
A well-tuned instrument can produce melody and harmony. 而配合协调  正常工作的肉体
A well-tuned, properly functioning body 也能够产生精神活动
can produce mental activity. 这个假设就是如此
That's the suggestion. 因此  即使能够证明
And so even if it turns out that 精神在某些方面
there are some ways in which the mind 与音乐并不完全相同
isn't exactly like harmony, 也不能说明物理主义者的观点就是错误的
it doesn't show us that the physicalist view is wrong. 我们来快速看一下
Well, so let's quickly look at 柏拉图的论证都说了什么
what Plato's arguments were. 首先
First--this is, 我认为这是个有趣的论证
I think, an interesting argument-- 柏拉图说  音乐不能先于
Plato says, harmony clearly cannot exist 竖琴的存在而存在  对吧
before the existence of the harp itself. Right? 竖琴悦耳的音调不能脱离
The melodiousness of the harp can't exist 竖琴物理结构的存在而存在
prior to the physical construction of the harp. 如果精神是这样一种东西
And if mind were the sort of thing that 它由正常工作的肉体产生
was produced by the proper functioning of the physical body, 十分明显  精神不能先于
then pretty obviously the mind could not exist 肉体的产生而存在
prior to the creation of the physical body. 然而  柏拉图之前在对话中曾论证过
However, Plato has already argued earlier in the dialogue 灵魂先于肉体而存在
that the soul does exist prior to the existence of the body. 这条论证来自于他的回忆录
That's the argument from recollection. 如果灵魂先于肉体存在的话
If the soul exists prior to the body, 那它就与音乐有所区别
it can't be like harmony; 显然物理主义是错的
physicalism has clearly got to be false. 但我说过  我并不觉得这个论证
But I said that I didn't find the argument-- 我曾试着解释为什么我认为
I tried to explain why I didn't find the argument 回忆录里的这条论证没有说服力
from recollection persuasive. 我想如果我们相信
I certainly do want to agree that if we became convinced that 灵魂确实先于肉体而存在的话
the soul did exist prior to the existence of the body, 拿我们就一定赞成
we would certainly want to agree 灵魂不同于音乐这一观点
that the soul is not like harmony. 但我认为来自回忆录的这个论证并不靠谱
But I don't think the argument from recollection succeeds. 柏拉图第二条异议是  异议能千变万化
Plato's second objection is to point out that harmony can vary. 我们讲过竖琴悦耳的音调
We talk about the melodiousness of the harp. 音调能以不同方式组成和谐的曲子
Well, it could be harmonious in a variety of different ways 而且是不同程度的和谐
and, indeed, to different degrees. 乐器的声音或多或少都是悦耳的
Something--an instrument--could be more or less harmonious. 弹奏乐器多少都能产生些旋律
What it's playing can be in greater or lesser harmony. 但是灵魂看起来并没有程度之分
But it doesn't seem as though souls come in degrees. 你要么有灵魂  要么没有
You've got a soul or you don't have a soul. 这就是他的异议
That's the argument, that's the objection. 你要么有思想  要么没有
You've got a mind or you don't have a mind. 但我们也许应该
But perhaps we should-- 这个异议如果成立的话
that's the objection, and of course 我们就能得出这个结论
if that was right then again we might have to conclude, 不管思想是什么
well, whatever the mind is, 它之于肉体并不像音乐那样
it's not quite like harmony is to the body. 但我也不确定我们是否就该认同
But I'm not so sure we should agree 思想没有程度之分的观点
that the mind can't come in degrees. 至少它可以
It can at least-- 精神层面可以有程度之分
The mental aspects can come in degrees. 我们的智力层次有程度之分
We can have varying degrees of intelligence, 创造力有程度之分
varying degrees of creativity, 推理能力有程度之分
varying degrees of reasonableness, 沟通能力有程度之分
varying degrees of ability to communicate. 所以我们可以这样说
So just as, we might say, 就像竖琴的操作有优有劣
just as the functioning of the harp can come in varying degrees 旋律优美或者缺乏和谐
more or less harmony-- 就思想来说  肉体的运转
the functioning of the body in terms of its mind 也是可以有程度之分的
can come in varying degrees. 所以我觉得第二个异议也不大站得住脚
So that second objection doesn't seem to me very compelling. 第三个异议  柏拉图指出
Third objection, Plato points out-- 苏格拉底指出
Socrates points out-- 灵魂可以是善的  也可以是恶的
that the soul can be good or it could be evil, wicked. 当灵魂是善的时候
When the soul is good, 当你看见一个精气神都很饱满的人
when you've got somebody who has got their stuff together, 我们就说他的灵魂很和谐
we might speak of them as having a harmonious soul. 假设灵魂之于肉体就像音乐之于乐器
If the soul were to the body like harmony is to the instrument 那么灵魂就可以是和谐的
and the soul can be harmonious, 看起来我们就可以这么说
it would seem as though we'd 音乐是和谐的
have to be able to talk about harmony being harmonious. 所以正如我们可以谈论灵魂的和谐一样
So just as we can talk about the harmony of the soul, 我们也可以谈论
we'd have to be able to-- 前提是灵魂一如肉体的和谐
if the soul is like the harmony of the body-- 我们就能够谈论音乐的和谐
we'd have to be able to talk about the harmony of the harmony. 但是我们不谈音乐的和谐
But we don't talk about harmony of the harmony. 我不太确定如何反驳这个异议
I'm not quite sure what to make of this objection. 这个论点可能正好可以
This might be a point where it would be well 提醒我们这样一个事实
to remind ourselves of the fact that 永远不能把灵魂
the suggestion was never that the soul 按字面理解为就是音乐
just literally is harmony. 它只是类似于物理主义者所说的音乐
It's just similar to harmony, says the physicalist, 在肉体如何产生音乐这个方面
in the way that harmony gets produced by the body-- 说错了  是乐器产生音乐
by the instrument. 同样地
In that same way, 肉体产生思想或者精神活动
mind or mental activity gets produced by the body. 并不是说所有关于思想的真理
We don't have to say that everything 都适用于音乐
that's true of the mind is true of harmony 同时  也不是所有关于音乐的真理
and everything that's true of harmony 就都适用于肉体  或者说思想
is true of the body--or the mind. 不过我觉得对于这个异议
Still, I think there's a bit more we can say 我们还是有话可说的
in response to this objection, 那就是
and that's this: 就像我们可以探讨思想
Just as it's true that we can talk about minds 或者灵魂有善恶之分一样
or souls being good or wicked, 我们也可以探讨音乐的不同种类
we can talk about different kinds of harmony. 有如下种类
There are-- 某些音乐比其他的更甜美
Certain harmonies are sweeter than others; 某些却更加刺耳  或是不和谐
some of them are more jarring and atonal or discordant. 尽管日常生活中我们并不谈论
Although we might not normally talk about 音乐到底有多和谐
how harmonious the harmony is, 但貌似音乐也可分为很多类别
it seems as though harmonies can come in different sorts 很多种类的
and different kinds. 所以  事实证明
And then, it turns out we really 它确实和思想很相像
would have an analogy to the mind, 也分很多种类
which can come in different sorts and different kinds. 所以我认为第三个异议也不是很有说服力
So I think this third objection isn't really compelling either. 最后  柏拉图又提出了一个异议
Finally, Plato raises one more objection. 他说"看  灵魂可以指导肉体
He says, "Look, the soul is capable of directing the body, 左右它  并且还可以反抗肉体"
bossing it around, and indeed capable of opposing the body." 比如说你的肉体
You know, your body might 很垂涎那块巧克力蛋糕
want that piece of chocolate cake, 但这时你的灵魂发话了
but your soul says, "不行  你在减肥呢  别吃了"
"No, no. You're on a diet. Don't eat it." 对吧
Right? 你的灵魂会对抗肉体
Your soul can oppose the body. 但如果灵魂仅仅只是肉体的音乐
But if the soul was just harmony of the body, 那它是怎么做到的呢
how could it do that? 毕竟  竖琴发出的音乐并不能影响
After all, the harmoniousness of the harp can't affect 竖琴的活动
what the harp does. 这一切说明两者存在一种相互作用
All these cause interaction in one way, 我们可以这么说
as we might put it. 在竖琴  乐感
In the case of the harp and the musicality 旋律  音乐这个案例中
and the melodiousness and the harmony, 是竖琴的物理性质产生了
the physical state of the harp causes the melodiousness 这样那样的旋律
to be the way it is. 但是竖琴的音乐
But the harmoniousness of the harp, 从未改变或者说
doesn't ever change or alter 左右竖琴作为物理形态的存在
or direct the way the physical object the harp is. 相反  并不是只有肉体可以影响灵魂
In contrast, not only can the body affect the soul, 灵魂也可以影响肉体
the soul can affect the body. 这就说明灵魂和肉体的关系
So that suggests it can't really be like harmony 还是不等同于音乐和竖琴
and the harp after all. 我认为这是个很有意思的异议
I think that's a pretty interesting objection. 因为我们认为  至少以这门课
Since we do think, at least in the kind of position 所讲授的立场来看的话
that we've been taking for this class, 灵魂是可以影响肉体的
that the soul can affect the body, 我们可能会问  那怎么就说
we might ask, how could it be that it's-- 物理主义者的观点就是对的呢
that the physicalist view is right? 假如谈论思想仅仅只谈论
If talk about the mind is just a way of talking about 肉体能做什么
what the body can do, 那肉体自身的能力又是如何影响它本身呢
how can the abilities of the body affect the body itself? 我觉得反驳这一异议
I think the answer to this objection 应该这样说
is probably going to be something like, 当我们说
what's really going on 灵魂影响肉体的时候  其实是说
when we talk about the soul affecting the body is that-- 肉体的某些功能在影响肉体
when we say certain functions of the body are affecting the body 其实是某些大脑活动在影响肉体
that certain mental functions are affecting the body-- 这是怎么发生的呢
how does this happen causally? 就像肉体的物理部分
Well, something like the physical parts of the body 隐藏于一些正常的活动下
that underwrite that lie beneath the proper fucntioning 肉体正常的精神活动
the proper mental functioning of body. 它们能够改变肉体的其他部分
Those are able to alter the other parts of the body. 所以我现在叫我的肉体
So look, right now I'm telling my body, "扭扭我的手指"
"Wiggle my fingers." 我的大脑就将指示传递给肉体
My soul is giving instructions to my body. 这怎么产生的呢
How does that happen? 是我的思想在给肉体施加指令
That's my mind giving instructions to my body. 从物理主义学角度来看这是怎么产生的呢
How does that happen on the physicalist view? 我的思想告诉我的肉体
Well, my mind giving instructions to my body, "扭扭手指"  这只是我肉体的一部分
"wiggle my fingers," is just one part of my body, 我的大脑将指令告诉肉体的另一部分
my brain, giving instructions to another part of my body, 那就是手指部位的肌肉
the muscles in my fingers. 虽然我们在说思想如何作用肉体
So, although we talk about the mind altering the body, 但在物理主义学家看来  严格意义上说
strictly what's going on there, says the physicalist, 仅仅是肉体的一部分影响另一部分而已
is just one part of the body affecting another part of the body. 竖琴有没有类似的例子可举呢
Can we have something like that with a harp? 也许没有  对吧
Well, maybe not. Right? 也许竖琴是个再简单不过的器械
Maybe the harp's too simple a machine to have one part 不能像那样由一部分影响另一部分
of it affect another part of it in that way. 即便它可以
Even if that were true, 那也不能够成为
that wouldn't give us reason 让我们拒绝物理主义者观点的理由
to reject the physicalist conception. 那仅仅能让我们有理由相信
It would just give us reason to think 竖琴不是非常类似思想与肉体
the harp's not very much like the mind and the body. 这只是宏观体系中的一个序言
It's just the beginnings of a picture, 物理主义理论的宏观体系
of a physicalist picture. 就算我们只探讨竖琴和乐感
Still, even if we think about the harp and musicality, 我认为我们也是能够发现一些类似的
I think we can see something analogous. 假设我弹拨竖琴的一根弦
Suppose I pluck a string on my harp, 就产生了一个音符
producing a certain note. 大家都知道  一根弦的震动会导致
As we know, the vibrations of one string can set into 其他弦的震颤
play the other strings vibrating as well. 所以  在竖琴的
And so, suddenly, what's happening 某一部分发生的突然震动
in one part of the harp affects 会影响竖琴的其他部分
what's going on in other parts of the harp. 我在竖琴上弹了某一个和弦音
The musicality of my playing a certain chord on the harp 可能会产生好几种弦外音
may create certain kinds of overtones in the harp, 使得竖琴有几种不同的震颤方式
setting the harp vibrating in various other ways. 这就是一个类比了
Well, that would be analogous-- 不能算是一个精确的类比
perhaps not a precise analogy, 但至少是一个勉强的类比
but at least a rough analogy 类似于思想如何作用肉体的机制
to what goes on when my mind affects my body--to-- 即我肉体的一部分影响其他部分
if one part of my body affects other parts of my body. 一方面  我想给夸夸柏拉图
So, on the one hand, I want to give Plato a fair bit of credit 因为他把物理主义学很当回事
for taking the physicalist view seriously enough 并且试图批判它
to try to criticize it. 由于他写书的时代
And since when he was writing 并不存在我们现在拥有的那种
there weren't the kind of complicated thinking machines 复杂强大的思想机器
that we've got nowadays, 柏拉图用简易的器械
it's no criticism of Plato that he used simple machines 比如说乐器来试图勾画
like musical instruments to try to think about 物理主义的宏图也就无可厚非了
what a physicalist picture would look like. 我真得要向其致敬
I want to give him credit, 但我也想说  他针对物理主义
but I also want to suggest that the objections 提的那些异议并不靠谱
that he raises to the physicalist view just don't succeed. 好了  现在我们只剩下一个论点
All right. Now, there's one other argument 需要在课上讨论的了
that I want to consider in our dialogue. 在对灵魂的简单性进行了探索之后
And after the appeal to the simplicity of the soul, 摆在我们面前的是一个冗长而复杂的争论
there's a very long complicated discussion about 那就是充分的解释需要包括什么
what constitutes an adequate explanation, 苏格拉底举了他那个时代的例子
and Socrates gives some of his history there 描述了他在寻求事物的充分解释之路上
and talks about what he's looking for in trying to find 找到了什么
adequate explanations of things. 这些文章都非常
And these passages are very, 非常晦涩  很庆幸我们探讨的话题
very difficult and happily for our purposes 并不需要研究那些
we don't really need to go there. 在我们的课结束之前
Before the dialogue ends though, 还有一个论证  我称之为
there's one further argument, which I'll dub, "关于基本属性的论证"
"the argument from essential properties." 同样  切记
Now again, it's important to bear in mind 当我们努力解读这篇
as we try to make sense of this passage 柏拉图写于很久以前的文章时
that Plato is writing at a time 那时候没有
when we don't have, we didn't have, 现在这些概念性的华丽外衣
all the conceptual apparatus that we have nowadays. 我们站在他的肩膀上
We stand on his shoulders; 我们继承了一些不同的观点
we've inherited some of the distinctions 是他首先提出要加入这个问题的
that he was the first to try to put into play. 所以尽管
And so although, again, he's about to-- 我想描绘论证的主干  重建它
I'm about to sketch or reconstruct an argument 认为这个论证并不成立
and claim that that the argument doesn't actually work, 这并不意味着我是在鄙视柏拉图的思想
this isn't really meant by way of being dismissive of Plato. 我要向他致以崇高的敬意
I want to give him a tremendous amount of credit. 他试图在问题重重的沼泽里找到明路
He's trying to see his way through a morass of issues 这些问题我们至今仍然会感到困惑
that are still confusing to us today, 但我认为我们能够
though I think we can see somewhat 比他当年看得更远
further than he was able to see. 总之
Anyway, 我们需要理解最后一个论证的区别
the distinction we need to understand the final argument, 就是关于基本属性和
is the distinction between an essential property 偶然属性的区别
and a contingent property. 基本属性是
An essential property is a property 物体必须具有的属性
that a given object must have; 通常和物体共存亡
it always has as long as it exists at all. 而偶然属性是
A contingent property is a property 物体可能具有的属性
that an object may have, 可能伴随着物体的整个存在过程
may happen to have its entire existence, 但是物体没有它也能存在
but could've existed without. 比方说  我的车是蓝色的
So my car is blue. 这是我的车的偶然属性
That's a contingent property of my car. 我可以把它开到烤漆店
I could take it to the paint shop 把它涂成红色
and get it painted red, 这样它就是红色的了
in which case it would be red. 它不再是蓝色的了
It would no longer be blue, 但车还是那车
but the car would still exist. 我的车是蓝色的  但也可以是红色的
My car is blue, but it could be red; 它可以作为一辆红色的车存在
it could exist as a red car. 即使我永不
And even if I never, 在我的车的整个存在过程中
over the entire course of existence of my car, 永不给它喷漆
never get it painted, 那么从下生产线开始的那一刻直到
so that from the moment it came into creation to the moment 它寿终正寝的那一刻  它始终是蓝色的
it gets smashed it's always blue-- 我们也可以充分理解
still, we understand perfectly well the idea 它也可以是红色的
that it could've been red. 这与这辆车以红色形态存在
There's nothing incompatible with the idea 并不矛盾
that this car exists and is red. 这就是偶然属性的一个例子
So that's an example of a contingent property. 我可以有一支铅笔  它是完好的
And I might have a pencil, and the pencil is whole. 我从未把它折断  但我本可以折断它
And I never break it, but I could've broken it. 这就是一种偶然属性
That's a contingent property, 无论这铅笔是完好的还是折断的
whether the pencil is whole or broken. 我拿起一片金属
I take a piece of metal; 它是直的还是弯的  这也是偶然属性
it's a contingent property whether it's straight or bent. 我折了  它就变弯了
I bend it; now it's bent. 我也可以把它掰直
I might straighten it back out; 它就变直了
now it's straight. 很多很多情况都是偶然性的
Many, many properties are contingent properties. 你高兴还是悲伤
You're happy, you're sad, 你是醒着还是睡了
you're awake, you're asleep. 相反  有些属性是基本属性
But some properties, in contrast, are essential properties. 对于我们正在思考的某件事
For the particular thing that we're thinking about, 这件事与它的属性没有同时出现
it's not possible to have that thing 是根本不可能的
and not have the property in question. 柏拉图举过火和热的例子
Plato gives the example of fire and being hot. 火是热的
Fire is hot. 那就是火所具有的属性
That's a property that it's got, 但它不是偶然属性
but it's not a contingent property; 它是个基本属性
it's an essential property. 不能说有的火是热的  有的火是冷的
It's not as though some fire is hot and some fire is cold or, "是啊  火确实一直都是热的
"Oh yes, it just happens that over the entire life 但那只是碰巧而已
of the fire the fire is hot, 我们可以让它变冷的"
but we could have made it cold." 从来没有那样的事
There's no such thing; 不可能有什么冷的火
there could be no such thing as cold fire. 只要有一丁点火苗  它就一定是热的
As long as you've got a bit of fire, it's hot. 去掉热量
Take away the heat, 就等于把火也熄灭了
you take away the fire, you destroy the fire. 不可能有冷的火
You can't have cold fire. 这就是基本属性的一个例子
That's an example of an essential property. 也就是说  柏拉图觉得
That is to say, Plato sees, 实际上  我想起码大家大致上都觉得
as indeed I take it we all see at least roughly, 这两者应该有些区别
that there's some sort of distinction there, 他以他的方式想弄清这两者的区别
and he's trying to see his way clear on these matters. 这是今天仍然存在的争议问题
That remains a controversial question today-- 直到今天还存在
until today. 世上真的有我们所说的
Are there really essential properties 那种基本属性吗
in the way we take there to be? 如果有  哪些属性是基本的
If so, which properties are essential? 哪些又是偶然的呢
Which ones are contingent? 水是H2O构成的
Water is composed of H2O 那是它的原子结构
that's its atomic structure. 它是不是水的基本属性呢
Is that an essential property of water? 你能不能说出某一种
Could you have something that 不是由H2O
was water without being composed of H2O-- 氢原子和氧原子构成的水呢
hydrogen and oxygen in that way? 有些人说可以  有些人说不行
Well, some people say yes, some people say no-- 不过我们大多数人都会说
but most of us we want to say, "这就是一个基本属性的例子
"Oh, there's an example of an essential property. 水必须得有那样的原子结构才行"
To be water, you must have that atomic structure." 就是这样
All right. That's the thought. 有了这个区别  柏拉图说
Now, armed with this distinction, Plato says, "灵魂有一个基本属性
"Here's an essential property for the soul. 有灵魂  就有生命"
Wherever there's a soul, it's alive." 柏拉图所说的"生命"
Now, by "alive," 我认为是正在思考
I take it Plato means it's thinking, 或者是能够思考的意思
or it's capable of thought. 你只要有灵魂
Wherever you've got a soul, 你就有思考的能力
you've got something capable of thought. 我猜也许会有人试着对他的断言提出异议
I suppose one could try to resist this claim of Plato's, 但我觉得它是相当合理的
but I find it reasonably plausible. 于是我开始思考心灵的问题  我问自己
I start thinking about minds, and I ask myself, "会不会有一种心灵是不能思考的"
"Could there be a mind that was incapable of thought?" 也许不会有
Maybe not. 也许那只是一种定义上的心灵
Maybe that's just built into minds by definition. 就像不可能存在
Just like you couldn't have something 不热的火
that was fire without it being hot, 也不可能存在
you couldn't have something that was a mind 不能够思考的心灵
without it being capable of thought. "能够"这个词在这里很重要  对吧
It's important to say the word capable here. Right? 不是说所有的心灵都一直在思考
It's not as though all minds always are thinking. 我假设在夜里会有一段时间
I presume there are stretches during the night 我的心灵既不在思考也不在做梦
when my mind is not thinking, not dreaming. 但是思考能力是存在的  即使
Still, it's capable of thought even though 心灵并不是一直在思考
it's not thinking at the time. 但是你会说
But you say, "不对  有一种心灵是不会思考的"
"No. Here's a mind that's not even capable of thought." 那么我要说"那它就根本不是心灵"
I want to say, "Then, it's just not a mind." 所以  也许能够思考
So all right, maybe being capable of thought 就是心灵的一种基本属性
is an essential property of the mind. 柏拉图思考的是灵魂意义上的心灵
Plato thinks about the mind in terms of souls, 所以也许有思考能力
so maybe being capable of thought 就是灵魂的一种基本属性
is an essential property of the soul. 而且我觉得那就是柏拉图的意思
And I think that's what Plato means 当他说心灵本质上--
when he suggests the mind is essential-- 灵魂本质上是有生命的
the soul is essentially alive. 这是灵魂的必要属性  我们可以这么说
It's a necessary property, as we might put it, 灵魂必然有生命  必然有思考能力
of the soul, that it's alive, that it's capable of thought. 所以我想说"这不是个不合理的断言"
So I want to say, "Not an implausible claim." 让我们把问题抛给苏格拉底
Let's give it to Socrates. 但一旦请苏格拉底来回答
But once we give it to Socrates, 柏拉图就觉得没他什么事了
Plato thinks now he's pretty much done. 不管怎么样  想想看  说某物具有
After all, think about what it means to say that 某种基本属性是什么意思
something's got an essential property. 火具有热的基本属性
Fire's got the essential property of being hot. 也就是说只有两种可能
It means there are only two possibilities. 要么有火并且是热的
Either you've got some fire and it will be hot, 要么火被熄灭了
or the fire has been destroyed, it's been put out. 这是仅有的两种可能
Those are the only two possibilities. 要么
You either have-- 如果热是火的基本属性
If heat is an essential property of fire, 要么有火并且是热的
either you've got some fire and it's hot, 要么火不存在了  它被熄灭了
or the fire no longer exists, it's been put out. 没有第三种可能出现不热的火  冷的火
There's no third possibility of a non-hot fire, of a cold fire. 所以如果你断言
So, if you've got the claim that 生命是灵魂的基本属性
life's an essential property of the soul, 那么也只有两种可能
only two possibilities: 要么你有灵魂并且活着--
either you've got the soul and it's alive-- 也就是说  你能够思考--
to wit, it's capable of thought-- 要么灵魂已经被毁灭了
or the soul's been destroyed. 但柏拉图认为可以排除这另一种可能
But Plato thinks we can rule out that other possibility. 怎么排除呢
How? 那就是去考察这种特殊的基本属性
Well, it's by thinking about this particular essential property. 在火有热的基本属性这一观点中
There's nothing in the idea that 我们没有任何理由
fire has the essential property of being hot 觉得火不能被熄灭
to make us think it couldn't be destroyed, 但柏拉图认为
but there is something, Plato thinks, 在本质上还活着这一观点中
in the idea of being essentially alive 已经排除了被毁灭的可能性
to rule out the possibility of its being destroyed. 实际上  当你说出这些词时就已开始
In fact, as you say the very words you begin to feel the force, 感受到柏拉图这一命题的力量
the pull of Plato's position. 如果灵魂本质上是活着的
If the soul is essentially alive, 如果它必然是活着的  那它就是活着的
if it's necessarily alive, it's got to be alive. 它不可能被毁灭
It can't be destroyed. 我认为那起码是一种
That's, I think, at least the kind of argument 柏拉图专门提出的观点
that Plato means to put forward. 他用"不死"这个词来表达
He does it in terms of the phrase, "deathless." 他说  我想把他的话写在这个板上
He says, I want to actually get this up here on the board 第一
One-- 生命是灵魂的基本属性
life is an essential property of the soul. 但如果你思考那是什么意思
But if you think about what that means, 紧接着你会发现灵魂是不死的
it follows that the soul is deathless. 毕竟  如果灵魂是
After all, if the soul is-- 如果灵魂的本质上是活着的
If it's essentially alive, 那就说明它不可能是死的
that means it can't be dead. 所以它是不死的
So it's deathless. 而不管怎样  任何不死的东西都不会死
But after all, anything that's deathless can't die. 所以灵魂不会死亡
So the soul cannot die, 也就是灵魂不可摧毁
which is just to say it's indestructible. 所以灵魂不可能被毁灭
So, soul can't be destroyed. 这有点像柏拉图的那个论证
Something like this seems to be Plato's argument. 第一  生命是灵魂的基本属性
One, life's an essential property of the soul, 但我们可以总结成灵魂不死
but we can just summarize that by saying the soul is deathless. 但如果灵魂不死  它就不会死亡
But if the soul is deathless, it can't die. 如果它不会死亡  那它就不可摧毁
If it can't die, it can't be destroyed, it's indestructible. 所以灵魂不可能被毁灭
So the soul can't be destroyed. 记住  一旦我们说灵魂是活着的
Remember, once we said the soul was alive, 就只有两种可能
there were only two possibilities. 如果灵魂本质上是活着的  要么有灵魂
If the soul was essentially alive, either we have the soul, 并且是活的  能够思考
it's alive, capable of thought, 要么就是灵魂被毁灭了
or it's destroyed. 但是如果灵魂不可能被毁灭
But if the soul can't be destroyed, 就只有唯一一个可能  灵魂是活着的
that leaves only the possibility the soul is alive, 并且能够思考
capable of thought. 这就是柏拉图的想法
That's just what Plato thinks; 灵魂永存  并且能够思考
the soul will always exist, capable of thought. 如果我说我觉得这种观点不成立
Well, it won't shock you to hear 你们应该也不会感到震惊
that I don't think this argument actually works. 我觉得它错误的地方就在于
And I think where it goes wrong is there's a certain kind 不死的概念有些模棱两可
of ambiguity in the idea of being deathless. 说某物不死到底是什么意思呢
What does it mean to say that something is deathless? 我觉得这个词有两种可能的理解方式
I think there are two possible interpretations of that phrase. 如果某物是不死的
If something is deathless, 那么它就不可能--
then it can't be that-- 什么呢
well, what? 一种可能性是
One possibility is, 灵魂不可能以死亡形式存在
it can't be that the soul exists and is dead. 这是一种可能的解释
That's one possible interpretation. 说某物不死
To say that something is deathless 意味着从来没有一个灵魂存在的同时
means you'll never have a soul that exists 又是死亡的
and the same time that it exists it's dead. 但是还有第二种可能
But there's a second possible 来解释不死
interpretation of deathless. 灵魂不可能
It can't be that 被毁灭
the soul was destroyed. 很容易把这两种对不死的
It's very easy to confuse 解释混淆  我们暂且把它们叫做A和B
these two interpretations of deathless, A and B. 从根本上来说  我觉得这要怪柏拉图
And basically, this is what I think is going on with Plato. 他自己就在这两种解释之间徘徊
He's running back and forth between these two interpretations. 如果生命是灵魂的基本属性
If life is an essential property of the soul, 就意味着我们永远不会找到
then that means we will never have, as it were, 一个存在的死亡的灵魂
a soul in our hand that exists and is dead. 就如同
Just in the same way that 你永远找不到
you'll never have a piece of fire in your hand, 存在的冷火
as it were, that exists and is cold. 这是不可能发生的
It can't happen. 只要有灵魂  它就是活着的
Wherever you've got a soul, it is alive. 所以它在观念A里是不灭的
So it's deathless in sense number, in sense A. 既然只要有灵魂就是活着的
Since wherever you've got a soul it must be alive, 也就不可能出现灵魂既存在又死亡的情况
it couldn't be the case that the soul exists and is dead. 所以它在观念A里是不死的
So it's deathless in sense A. 但是即使这样  逻辑上来讲
But for all that, it could still be, logically speaking, 灵魂仍然可以被毁灭
that the soul could be destroyed, 就像火可以被熄灭
just like a fire can be put out. 我们可以想象某个不能被毁灭的东西
We could imagine something that couldn't be destroyed. 那它在观念B里当然就是不死的
Then of course it would be deathless in sense B, 这种不死的观念要强大得多
a much stronger sense of deathless. 柏拉图要做的是
What Plato needs, what Plato wants, 说服我们相信灵魂在观念B中是不死的
is to convince us that the soul is deathless in sense B: 灵魂确实不能被毁灭
It's true of the soul that it can't be that it was destroyed. 但他的观点完全基于观念A
But all he's entitled to is sense A: 不可能有既存在又死亡的灵魂
You'll never have a soul that exists and is dead, 因为生命是灵魂的一个基本属性
because being alive is an essential property of the soul. 但事实上  灵魂是活着的
But the mere fact that where there's a soul it's alive, 并不意味着灵魂不能被毁灭
doesn't mean the soul couldn't be destroyed. 就如同火是热的
Just like from the fact that where there's fire it's hot 不代表火不能被熄灭
doesn't mean the fire can't be destroyed. 我认为  这类问题
It's, I think, pretty easy to get confused 非常容易让人混淆
in thinking about these issues. 要想弄清这两种不死观念的区别
It's difficult to see your way clearly 是非常困难的
to these two different notions of deathless. 很难从基本属性的角度
It's difficult to get to the point 得出清晰的结论
where you can clearly use the language of essential properties 而不使人混淆
without getting screwed up. 不过我觉得我们正努力得出这样一个结论
Still, I think that's what happened here. 我们承认柏拉图关于
We grant Plato the thought that 活着是灵魂的基本属性这一观点是对的
the soul has an essential property of being alive; 由此推出  只要有灵魂它就是活着的
from this, it follows that where there's a soul it is alive, 所以在观念A中灵魂是不死的
and hence, it's deathless in sense A. 但是一旦我们开始思考
But once we start thinking about the category, 不死这一概念所属的范畴时
the notion of being deathless, 我们就会试着去重新理解
we're tempted to re-understand that 观念B里的不死  它是不可能被摧毁的
as being deathless in sense B, can't be destroyed. 我觉着这就是说不通的地方
And that, I think, doesn't follow. 好的  那我们得出什么结论了呢
All right. Where does that leave us? 柏拉图通过一系列论证来说明灵魂不朽
Plato's gone through a series of arguments for the immortality, 以及它不可被摧毁
the indestructibility of the soul, 可我觉得这些论证一个都说不通
and I've argued that none of them work. 其中一些还值得好好思考一番
Some of them are worth taking seriously. 这也是为什么我上周花了那么多时间
That's why we've spent the last week 来给大家介绍这些论证
or so going over them. 但在我看来  没有一个论证能站得住脚
But none of them, as far as I can see, are successful. 我想我不用提醒大家
And I hardly need remind you that 我们在此前一两周里
this comes on the heels of a previous week or two 讨论了其它各种论证
in which we talked about various other arguments 以说明非物质灵魂的存在
for the very existence of an immaterial soul. 我想说其实那些论证也全都不靠谱
And I've argued that none of those arguments work either. 在我看来
As far as I can see then, 这些想要证明
the arguments that might be offered 非物质灵魂的存在性的论证
for the existence of an immaterial soul, 更别提什么不朽的灵魂了
let alone an immortal soul, 都不靠谱
the arguments don't succeed. 倒不是说灵魂这个说法很蠢
It's not that the idea of a soul is in any way silly; 也不是说它不值得思考
it's not that it's not worth thinking about. 而是当我们扪心自问
It's that when we ask ourselves, "我们是否有理由相信非物质灵魂呢"
"Do we have any good reason to believe in an immaterial soul?" 并且对这些理由可以言之有物
and actually try to spell out what those reasons might be, 这样我们仔细看这些论证的时候
as we look more carefully we see the arguments 就会发现它们其实很没说服力
are not very compelling. 所以我准备下结论说灵魂是不存在的
So I'm prepared to conclude there is no soul. 没有理由相信灵魂存在
There's no good reason to believe in souls. 所以我做出这样的结论
And I so I conclude-- 至少没有足够充分的理由
at least there's no good enough reason 让我们相信灵魂存在
to believe in souls-- 所以我的结论是没有灵魂
and so I conclude there are none. 这就是我在接下来的课上
And this is the position that here on out 做的一个前提假设
I'm going to be assuming for the rest of the class. 我会和大家继续思考死亡
I'm going to have us continue to think about death, 但是是从物理主义角度来思考
but now think about death from the physicalist perspective. 假设只有肉体
Given the assumption that the body is all there is, 那么谈论思想就是在
that talk about the mind is just a way of talking about 谈论肉体所能做的
the abilities of the body to do 某种精神活动而已
certain special mental activities. 除了肉体  不存在别的东西
There are no extra things beyond the body, 没有什么非物质的灵魂
no immaterial souls. 如果你们现在指责我回避问题实质
Now, it wouldn't be unreasonable at this point 也不无道理
to accuse me of begging the question. 想想我做了什么
After all, think about what I've done. 我把举证这一重担全部交给了
I've put all of the burden of proof 灵魂存在论的信从者
on the fan of souls. 就好像我去问一个二元论者
I've asked the dualist, "给我理由让我相信你的观点"
"Give me some reason to believe your position." 然后我又代表二元论
And I've said the arguments 说这些论证不太有说服力
on behalf of dualism aren't very convincing. 我现在是不是也该对物理主义者
Don't I now need, in fairness, 做同样的事呢  以示公平
to do the same thing for the physicalist? 我是不是也该对物理主义者说
Don't I need to turn to the physicalist and say, "给我理由让我相信物理主义才是真理
"Give me some reason to believe that physicalism is true? 给我理由让我相信灵魂并不存在"
Give me some reason to believe souls don't exist." 我之前对二元论者说
After all, I turned to the dualist and said, "给我理由让我相信灵魂存在"
"Give me some reason to believe in souls." 可那些论证并不成立
Those arguments didn't work. 那我现在是不是也该对物理主义者说
Don't I now need to turn to the physicalist and say, "给我理由让我相信灵魂并不存在
"Give me some reason not to believe in souls? 证明给我看  灵魂并不存在"
Prove that souls don't exist." 这样是不是就公平了
Isn't that fair? 我们先停一下  问问自己
So let's pause and ask ourselves, 你要如何证明某物并不存在呢
how do you go about proving that something doesn't exist? 或者更准确地说
Or, to put it in a slightly better way, 你何时需要证明某物并不存在呢
when do you need to prove that something doesn't exist? 我们之前举过例子
When we have examples of things 我们相信某物不存在
whose existence we don't believe in, 那我们该怎样证明我们是对的呢
how do we decide when we're justified in disbelieving them? 以龙为例
Take something like dragons. 我假设全班所有人  教室里的所有人
Let me assume that everybody in this class, in this room, 都不相信龙的存在
does not believe in the existence of dragons. 那我该怎么证明真的没有龙呢
How do I prove that there aren't any dragons? 其实也是可能有龙的
I mean, there could be dragons. 对不
Couldn't there? 但实际上的确是没有的
But there aren't any. 我们不相信有龙
We don't believe in dragons. 那在你说自己不相信有龙存在之前
So don't you need to disprove the existence of dragons 是不是该证明它们真的并不存在呢
before you continue on your way of not believing in them? 我假设教室里大家都不相信
I imagine nobody in this room believes 希腊神话中天王宙斯的存在
in the existence of Zeus, the Greek god. 那你要怎么证明宙斯是不存在的呢
How do you disprove the existence of Zeus? 我们是否必须证明宙斯并不存在呢
Don't we have an obligation to prove that Zeus doesn't exist? 那该怎么做呢
But how could you do that? 其实我并认为
Well, unsurprisingly, I don't actually think you do 你必须证明这些不存在的东西
have an obligation to disprove those things. 但这并不是说你什么事都不用做
That doesn't mean you don't have any obligations. 你只需谨慎处理
You just have to be very careful about 那些思想上的义务
what the intellectual obligations come to. 回到龙这个话题  我们该做些什么
So back to dragons. What do we need to do for dragons? 要证明你对龙的存在性是合理的
Well, the most important thing you need to do, 最重要的一件事就是
to justify your skepticism about dragons, 驳斥所有说明龙存在的
is to refute all of the arguments that might be offered 论证
on behalf of dragons. 我儿子有本关于龙的书
My son's got a book about dragons 上面的图片非常精美
with some very nice photographs. 所以我要证明我对龙的怀疑是合理的
So, one of the things I need to do in order to justify 我就得解释这些照片
my skepticism about dragons is explain away the photographs, 或者说这些图片  都是假的
or the drawings, or what have you. 我得解释为什么会有这些图片
I need to explain why it is that we have pictures, 尽管根本不存在龙
even though there really aren't any dragons. 有些图片
Well, some of these are just drawings, 只是人们的奇思妙想
and people were drawing things out of their imagination. 那些看似照片的图
The things that look like photographs, 你们也知道  现在电脑绘图这么发达
you know, nowadays with computer generated graphics, 什么图都能做得跟照片一样
you can make things that look like photographs, 只需用Photoshop
and given Photoshop you can make things 你就可以把那些根本不存在的东西
that look like pictures of just about anything 做得非常逼真
that doesn't even exist. 那我又该如何证明独角兽也是不存在的呢
How do I prove there aren't any unicorns? 我看过很多对独角兽的报道
Well, I look at the various reported sightings of unicorns 我现在要来解释这些都是假的
and I try to explain them away, "人们第一次
"Well, you know, it's the first time people, 欧洲人第一次看到犀牛
Europeans, saw the rhinoceros. 随之联想到一头长着大角的马
It sort of reminded them of a horse with a big horn. 也许独角兽
And maybe that's where the reports of rhinoceros came-- 就是这么来的
or the various reports of the unicorn came from. 各种各样独角兽的角
The various unicorn horns that 被收集起来
have been offered in various collections, 交给生物学家鉴定  结果证明
upon examination by biologists turn out to be narwhal horns, 其实就是独角鲸的角  或是别的什么
horns from whales, and so forth and so on." 每一条说独角兽存在的证据
You look at each bit of evidence that 你都能揭穿它们的真相
gets offered on behalf of the unicorn and you debunk it. 你可以解释这些论证为什么没有说服力
You explain why it's not compelling. 当你解释完之后  你就有资格说
And when you're done, you're entitled to say, "据我所知  根本不存在独角兽
"You know, as far as I can tell, there aren't any unicorns. 据我所知  根本不存在龙"
As far as I can tell, there aren't any dragons." 并不是说你必须得去
It's not as though you've got some obligation 一个个洞穴地检查
to look in every single cave 把地球表面每个角落搜个遍
anywhere on the surface of the Earth and say, 然后说  "这儿没有龙  那儿没有龙
"Oh, no dragons in there, no dragons in there, 这儿没有龙  那儿没有龙"
no dragons in there, no dragons in there, no dragons in there." 只要你证明了那些声称有龙存在的论证
You are pretty much justified in being skeptical 是假的
about the existence of dragons 那你就能证明你对龙存在的怀疑是合理的
once you've undermined the arguments for dragons. 你还可以做些别的事
Now, there might be something more that you could do. 至少在某些情况下
In at least some cases, 你可以说我们讨论的某些东西
you can go on to argue the very idea of the kind of thing 是不可能存在的
we're talking about is impossible. 不仅
It's not just-- 还是以龙为例
Take dragons again; 不仅没有理由相信龙的存在
it's not just that there's no good reason to believe in dragons. 而且从科学角度来看
The very idea of a dragon 龙这个说法也是不合逻辑的
may be scientifically incoherent, 至少就我们所理解的科学是这样认为的
at least given the science as we understand it. 据说龙可以喷火
I mean, dragons are supposed to breath fire. 那也是说它肚子里肯定得有火
So that must mean they've got fire in their belly. 但是火怎么可能一直在它肚子燃烧着呢
But how does the fire continue to exist in their belly, 肚子里又没氧气
absent--lack of oxygen? 而且它肚里的火怎么没有
Why isn't the fire in their belly busy burning 烧坏它的胃粘膜什么的呢
and destroying the membranes of their stomach or whatever? 我想你也许会
All right, you could, I suppose, 试着从科学角度证明龙是不可能存在的
try to prove that dragons were scientifically impossible. 如果你能证明的话
And if you could, 那你又有个理由可以相信它们不存在了
then you'd have an extra reason to not believe in them. 但不是说你只有证明了某物不可能存在
But it's not as though you have to prove that 才能有理由相信其不存在
something's impossible to be justified in not believing in it. 我其实并不觉得独角兽是不可能存在的
I don't think unicorns are impossible. 我只是认为它就是不存在
I just don't think there are any. 当然  可能是有些马
Surely, there could be horses with a single long horn 头上长着一根长长的独角的
growing out of their forehead. 但是并不存在独角兽啊
There just aren't any. 有了这些思想
So armed with these ideas, 我们回来继续探讨灵魂
come back to the discussion of souls. 作为一个物理主义者
Do I, as a physicalist who does not believe 我并不相信灵魂的存在
in the existence of souls, 也不相信什么超越肉体的非物质的存在
immaterial entities above and beyond the body, 我需要证明灵魂不存在吗
do I need to disprove the existence of souls? "这儿没有灵魂  那儿没有灵魂"
"Well, there's no soul here, no souls there." 不需要
No. 我只须看看那些声称
What I need to do is to take a look at each argument 灵魂存在的论证
that gets offered for the existence of a soul and rebut it-- 然后一一解释为什么这些论证没有说服力
explain why those arguments are not compelling. 我无须证明灵魂不存在
I don't need to prove that souls are impossible. 我只须颠覆灵魂存在论即可
I just need to undermine the case for souls. 如果没有什么好的理由相信灵魂存在
If there's no good reason to believe in souls, 其实也就给了我们一个理由
that actually constitutes a reason 相信灵魂不存在
to believe there are no souls. 现在  你们如果愿意  可以试着证明
Now, if you want to, you could go on and try to prove 灵魂不可能存在
that souls are impossible in the same way 就像我刚才证明龙不可能存在一样
that maybe dragons are impossible. 但我不敢肯定我的这种证明方法
But I'm not sure that I myself find such impossibility claims 就特别有说服力
especially persuasive. 我不相信灵魂存在
I don't believe in the existence of souls, 并不意味着
but that doesn't mean that 我觉得像灵魂那样的非物质
I find the idea of an immaterial entity 也不存在
like the soul impossible. 现在也许有人会说
Now, some people might say, "这违背了科学
"Well, you know, it violates science. 我们知道  非物质的存在违背了物理学"
As we know it, it violates physics to have there be something immaterial." 但是科学是在不断发展进步的
But science is constantly coming around 那些之前不相信的实体或是属性
to believe in entities or properties 也是可以相信的
that it didn't believe in previously. 也许只是还没发展到相信灵魂存在这一步
Maybe it just hasn't gotten around to believing in souls yet. 如果现代科学排除了灵魂存在的可能性
Or if current science rules out the possibility of souls, 也许我们应该说
maybe we should say, "现代科学也就到头了"
"So much the worse for current science." 所以我并不是想说
So I'm not somebody who wants to say 我们能够证明灵魂不存在
we can disprove the existence of souls. 其实我并不认为我们能够证明这点
I don't think we can disprove them. 我不认为灵魂这个说法不合逻辑
I don't think the idea of a soul is in any way incoherent. 有些哲学家觉得是
There are philosophers who've thought that. 但我不这么想
I'm not one of them. 但我并不认为我必须得证明灵魂不存在
But I don't think I need to disprove the existence 才能证明自己不相信灵魂存在是合理的
of a soul to be justified in not believing in it. 独角兽并非不可能存在  但话虽如此
Unicorns aren't impossible, but for all that, 我还是坚信它们不存在
I'm justified in thinking there aren't any. 为什么呢
Why? 因为所有证明独角兽存在的证据
Because all the evidence for unicorns 都不够有说服力
just doesn't add up to very convincing case. 灵魂也并非不可能存在  但尽管如此
Souls are not impossible, but for all that, 我还是觉得并不存在灵魂
I think I'm justified in believing there aren't any. 为什么呢  因为当你
Why? Because when you look for the-- 看那些试图说服我们
look at the arguments that have been offered 相信灵魂存在的论证时
to try to convince us of the existence of souls, 会发现那些论证也不怎么有说服力
those arguments just aren't very compelling, 至少在我看来是这样
or so it seems to me. 所以  从这点出发
So, from this point on out, 我就可以假设物理主义的观点是正确的
I'll be assuming the physicalist view is correct, 并且我将从物理主义的观点
and will be thinking about the issues of death 来思考死亡的问题
as they'd be understood from the physicalist point of view 



 Chapter 9: 人格同一性（一）：跨越时空的同一性 和 灵魂理论


在上节课最后
At the end of last class, 我说从现在开始
I suggested that from here on out 我将假设灵魂不存在
I'm going to be assuming that there is no soul. 并从物理主义者的观点
I'm going to be discussing the issues 来讨论这些问题
that we turn to here after from the perspective of the physicalist, 物理主义学认为  从本质上来说
the person who says that a person 人只是上帝精心设计的一具肉体
is basically just a fancy body-- 它可以做某些特殊事情
a body that can do certain special tricks, 并按特定的方式运作
a body that can function in certain ways 如此这般  我们就将其称之为人
that we associate with being a person, 也就是具备人体功能的肉体
a body that can P-function, as we put it. 现在我已经向你们解释了
Now, I've given you my reasons 我为什么不相信灵魂存在
for believing there are no souls. 基本上  各种各样
Basically, that the various arguments 支持灵魂存在的论证
that might be offered for believing in souls 都不大经得起检验
don't seem very compelling upon examination, 所以没什么好的理由
so there's no good reason 可以证明这一额外实体的存在
to posit this extra entity. 大多数时候
For the most part, then, 我会把灵魂置于一边  避而不谈
I'm going to be putting aside soul talk. 我会时不时
Periodically, I'll come back and talk about 来讲讲那些
how some issue that we are considering 看似是从灵魂存在论角度
might look from the perspective of somebody 得出的观点
who does believe in souls. 但正如我所说  大多数时候
But, as I say, for the most part, 我会假设灵魂不存在
I'm going to be assuming there are no souls. 对于你们当中仍然
For those of you who still do believe 相信灵魂存在的人
in the existence of souls, 我想你们可以
I suppose you could take a great deal of 从接下来的大讨论中获益匪浅
the discussion that follows 前提条件假设或虚拟方式都可以
as some form of large conditional or subjunctive. 如果灵魂不存在
If there were no souls, 接下来就是我们要讨论的东西
then here's what we'd have to say. 所以即使我
So although I'll be largely talking 从物理主义者的角度高谈阔论
from the perspective of the physicalist, 但如果你还是不能信服物理主义
if you haven't become convinced of the truth of physicalism, 那就顺其自然吧
so be it. 如果我们认为人本质上只是一具肉体
We'll at least explore what will we say about death 我们至少要探讨一下大家会怎么看待死亡
if we've decided that people are basically just bodies? 还记得这学期刚开始时我说过
Now, you'll recall that at the start of the semester I said, 想想这个问题  我能免于一死吗
in thinking about the question, could I survive my death? 这里我们要先弄清两个问题
there were two basic things we had to get clear on. 第一  我们得弄清我是什么
First, we had to get clear on, what am I? 我由什么组成
What are my parts? 这就是为什么我们花了几星期的时间
That's why we spent the last several weeks 来担心我是否只是一具肉体
worrying about the question, am I just a body? 亦或是肉体与非物质灵魂的结合体
Am I a body and an immaterial soul as well? 又或者  严格来说只是灵魂而已
Or perhaps, strictly speaking, just the soul? 思考完这个问题
Having looked at that question, 现在我们来看第二个基本问题
we're now going to turn to the second basic question, 如果存活下来会是什么样
what would it be to survive? 这样一个东西继续存在的话
What would it be for a thing like that 会是什么样呢
to continue to exist? 当然  我们更会这样问
Now, of course, we're going to ask most particularly, 这样一个东西如果肉体不死的话
what would it be for a thing like that 会是什么样呢
to survive the death of the body? 甚至人是否真得可能
Could it even make sense for a person 肉体不死呢
to survive the death of his body? 如果你是个物理主义者
You might think the answer to that is no, 你也许会认为这是不可能的  但事实上
if we are physicalists, but in fact, 答案未必如此
it's not so clear the answer to that is no. 为了说明这一特殊的问题
But in order to address that particular question-- 如果我肉体不死的话  那将如何呢
What is for me to survive the death of my body? 有没有这种可能呢
Is that even a possibility or not? 首先我们得搞清楚一个更基本的问题
We first have to get clear about the more general question, 幸存一段时间  对我来说意味着什么
what is it for me to survive, period? 举个大家都熟悉的例子
Take the more familiar hum-drum case. 今天我站在这里给你们讲课
Here I am lecturing to you today, 今天是周四
Thursday. 毫无疑问  下周二这儿还会
Somebody's going to be here, no doubt, 有人给你们讲课
lecturing to you next week, next Tuesday. 在这一简单的案例中
The question of survival 我们可以提出有关存活的问题
can be asked about that very simple case. 下周二来给你们讲课的那个人
Is the person who's going to be lecturing to you on Tuesday 和现在站在你们面前讲课的这个人
the very same person as the person 是完完全全同一个吗
who is standing in front of you lecturing to you now? 现在这个人能活过这周末吗
Will that person survive the weekend? 我当然希望活过这周末
I certainly expect to survive the weekend. 但活过这周末意味着什么
But what is it to survive the weekend? What is it? 也许我们会说  看
We might say, look, 我们已经得到答案的雏形了
we've already got the beginnings of an answer. 对我来说  活到周二
For me to survive until Tuesday, 可以说就是有人
presumably is for there to be somebody, 能活着在下周二给你们讲课
some person alive lecturing to you on Tuesday, 关键是
and--here's the crucial point-- 下周二来给你们讲课的人
for that person lecturing to you on Tuesday 和今天  这周四
to be the very same person 给你们讲课的人是同一个人
as the person lecturing to you today, on Thursday. 如果我这周末
If I were to be killed 死于空难
in a plane accident this weekend 那么下周二就会有人来代课
and there was a guest lecturer for you on Tuesday, 还是会有一个活人来给你们讲课
there'd be somebody alive lecturing to you. 但是  肯定不会是我
But, of course, that wouldn't be me. 所以我们要弄清楚的问题就是
So the question we want to get clear on is, 下周二来讲课的人
what is it for somebody on Tuesday 和现在在这里和你们交谈的是同一个人
to be the same person as the person here 意味着什么
talking to you on Thursday? 我们可以问得更宏观些
We can ask the question more grandly, 把时间拉长
about larger expanses of time. 假设有人活到
Suppose there's somebody alive 四十多年后
40-odd years from now, 在二零五零年
in the year 2050. 那个人会是我吗
Could that be me? 问我能否活到二零五零年
To ask, have I survived until 2050? 也就是问在二零五零年活着的那个人
is to ask, is that person who's alive in 2050 和现在站在这里
the very same person as the person 给你们讲课的人是否同一个人
who's standing here now lecturing to you? 未来的某人
What is it for somebody in the future 和现在在这里的某人
to be the very same person 是同一个人  这意味着什么
as this person who's here now today? 思考这个问题的时候
Now, in thinking about this question, 思考这个问题
thinking about this question, 千万不要误解
it's important not to 我们问的问题
misunderstand what we're asking. 有些人也许会误解我的问题
Some of you may misunderstand what I'm asking. 有些人会说
Some of you may want to say, "现在讲课的这家伙
"Look, the person lecturing to you now 至少头上还有几根毛
has at least a fair bit of his hair. 留着胡子
He's got a beard. 假设二零五零年的那个人
Let's suppose that the person alive in 2050 头也秃了  背也驼了  胡子也掉光了
is bald and bent over, has no beard. 他们怎么会是同一个人呢
How could they be the same person? 一个有头发  一个没有
One's got hair, one doesn't. 一个有胡子  一个没有
One's got a beard, one doesn't. 一个能站直  一个驼背
One stands straight, one's crooked. 不可能是同一个人"
It can't be the same person." 这就错了
That's the mistake 我们一定要弄清这个问题
that it's important for us to get clear about. 我会花点时间讲些
So I'm going to spend some time talking about examples 不太难懂的例子
that I think we would not find puzzling, 帮大家逐渐理解人格同一性
and work our way back up to the case of personal identity. 首先我想用些大家熟悉的实物来谈谈
So first I'm going to say some things about 贯穿时间的同一性
identity across time, or indeed initially, identity across space 或者更深入些  贯穿空间的同一性
with some familiar,hum-drum, material objects. 我们开始吧
So, let's start. 假设你和我走在一起  看到一辆火车
Suppose you and I are walking along and we see a train. 我先把火车画下来
So let me draw the train first. 我画得不好  不过
I'm not a very good artist, but... 搞定
All right. 这就是火车
There's our train. 我们开始走
We start walking. 我指着最后一节车厢
I point to the caboose. 我来把它画得更像车尾
Let's make this look more like a caboose, 稍微更像一点
slightly more like a caboose. 这样就不那么像车头了
Just so it doesn't look too much like the locomotive. 我指着车尾说
I point to the caboose and I say, "看那辆火车"
"Look at that train." 然后我们一直走  一直走
And we're walking along, we're walking along, 一直走
we're walking along. 走到火车这一头
We come to the end of the train 然后我指着车头说
and I point to the locomotive and I say, "哇  这辆火车真长
"Wow! Look how long that train is! 这和我五分钟前指着的是同一辆车
That's the very same train I pointed to five minutes ago. 我们一直在沿着它走"
We've been walking along it all this time." 现在  想象一下你说
Now, imagine that you say-- 你肯定不会说这么傻的话
you wouldn't say anything as stupid as this, 但想象一下假设你这么说  你说
but imagine that you said this--you say, "这不是我们五分钟前
"This isn't the same train 指着的那辆车
as the train we pointed to five minutes ago. 毕竟  你现在
After all, right now 指着的是车头
what you're pointing to is a locomotive, 而五分钟前
whereas five minutes ago 你指着的是车尾
what you pointed to was a caboose. 车头和车尾不一样
A caboose isn't the same thing as a locomotive. 你怎么能说是同一辆车呢
How could you possibly say it's the same thing? 谁会犯这样的错误呢
Who could possibly make a mistake like that? 车头会冒烟
The locomotive's got smoke coming out of it. 车尾不会
The caboose doesn't. 诸如此类
And so forth and so on. 两者之间差别那么大
There's a lot of differences between the two. 你怎么会犯这么低级的错误呢"
How could you make such a silly mistake?" 当然
Well, of course, 我接下来会对你说
what I would then want to say to you is, "不  事实上  你才是犯错的那个"
"No, actually, you're the one who's making the mistake." 我当然同意
I agree, of course, 车头和车尾不同
that a locomotive is not the same thing as a caboose. 但我也没说他们一样啊
But I wasn't claiming that it was. 相反  虽然我们开始走的时候
Rather, initially when we started our walk, 我指的是车尾
I pointed to a caboose, 但我所指的车尾
but by pointing to the caboose, 是说这整辆火车
I picked out a train. 我说"看这辆火车"
I said, "Look at that train." 我想说的并不是车尾
And what I was referring to wasn't just the caboose, 而是这一整个长长的
but the whole, long, 占了很大空间的东西
extended-through-space object, 是这辆火车  车尾只是它其中的一部分
the train, of which the caboose was just a part. 当我们走到头时
And when--At the end of our walk 我指着车头说
when I pointed to a locomotive and said, "看这辆火车"
"Look at that train," 我所指的车头
By pointing to the locomotive, 也是指的这整辆火车
I was picking out a train, an entire train. 这个长长的占了很大空间的东西  火车
This long, extended-through-space object, the train. 当我说
And when I said, "我现在指着的这辆车
"This train that I'm pointing to now 和我五分钟前
is the very same train 指着的是同一辆车时"
as the train I pointed to five minutes ago," 我并非睁眼说瞎话
I'm not saying what is certainly false. 我不是在说车头
I'm not saying the locomotive 和车尾是同一个东西
is the same thing as the caboose. 相反  我的意思是
Rather, what I'm saying is, 我现在指着的
the entire extended-through-space train 这一整辆占了很大空间的火车
that I'm pointing out now 和我五分钟前
is the same train 指着的那一整辆大火车
as the entire extended-through-space train 是同一辆
that I picked out five minutes ago. 这话根本没错  事实就是这样
And that claim, far from being false, is true. 正如我所说  没人会犯那样的错误
Now, as I say, none of us would make that mistake. 但倘若你一不留神  就很容易犯这种错
But it's a tempting mistake if you're not being careful. 而当我们开始考虑人格同一性的问题时
And that mistake might mislead us 这种错误就会误导我们
if we start thinking about the personal identity case. 我们再来说说火车
But let's continue with the train for a bit. 假设
Suppose, 我们走的时候
as we're taking our walk, 有一部分火车看不到
part of the train isn't visible. 有一间很大的仓库
There's a large warehouse 挡住了视线
that's blocking the view. 我们一直走
We're walking along the way. 然后看到车尾  我说
We see a caboose. I say, "哈  这有辆火车"
"Ha! There's a train." 我们又走了一会儿  但什么也没看到
Then for a while we're walking, we don't see anything, 因为只能看到仓库
because all you can see is the warehouse. 当我们走过仓库之后
And then after we get past the warehouse, 一间很长很长的仓库
a very long, block-long warehouse, 我又看到车头了  于是说
I see a locomotive and I say, "看  这有辆火车"  然后我问你
"Hey look. There's a train." And then I ask you, "你认为这辆火车
"Do you think this is the same train 和我们之前指的那辆是一样的吗"
as the train we pointed to before?" 再说一次  千万别把这个问题理解错了
Now again, it's important not to misunderstand that question. 我并不是问
That question is not asking, "我们现在指着的这个车头
Is the locomotive that we're pointing to now 和我们之前指着的那节车尾是不是一样"
the same as the caboose that we pointed to earlier?" 不  当然不一样
No, of course not. 车头与车尾是不一样的
The locomotive's not the same as the caboose. 不过那并不是我问的问题
But that's not what I'm asking. 我实际上问的是
What I'm asking rather is... 还记得我之前指的那节车尾吗
Remember earlier when I pointed to the caboose? 我指着车尾说这辆火车
In doing so, and I started talking about a train, 我实际上说的是
I was picking out some 这占据了很大空间的一整辆火车
entire extended-through-space train. 现在  我指着车头
Right now, in pointing to a locomotive, 我说的并不仅仅是这节车头
I'm picking out not just the locomotive. 我想说的是整辆火车
I mean to be talking about an entire train. 这占据了很大空间的一整辆火车
Some entire extended-through-space train. 我问的也不是关于车头和车尾的问题
And I'm asking not about the locomotive and the caboose, 而是在问火车
but rather I'm asking about the trains 车头和车尾指代的这两辆火车
that I pick out by means of the locomotive and caboose. 它们是同一辆火车吗
Are they the same train? 而这个问题的答案是
And the answer is, "不清楚  说不上来
"Don't know; can't tell. 这栋建筑挡住视线了"
The building's blocking the view." 假设我们都有X光眼
Suppose we had x-ray vision 可以看穿这栋建筑
and could see through the building. 那么答案就会变成
Then the answer would be, "你看  如果我们看到的是这样的东西
"Well look, if what we've got is something like this, 毫无疑问  我们只有这一辆火车"
then of course, we do have one single train." 我们在步行结束时
The extended-through-space train 指的那辆占据很大空间的火车
I picked out at the end of our walk 就是我们在步行开始时
is the same as the extended-through-space train 指的那辆
that I picked out at the beginning of our walk. 不过情况也可能不是那样的
But it might not turn out that way. 如果我拥有X光眼
It might turn out if I had x-ray vision, 我也有可能看到这样的情形
that what I'd see is this. 那样的话  答案就变成了
Then the answer would be, "这里并不是一辆火车  而是两辆"
"Ah, there's not one train here, but two trains." 我指着车头所说的那辆
The extended-through-space train that I'm picking out 占据了很大空间的火车
when I point to the locomotive turns out 实际上与我指着车尾
to be a different train 说的那辆火车
from the extended-through-space train 不是同一辆
I picked out when I pointed to the caboose. 不过我并不没有X光眼
I don't have x-ray vision. 因此我并不知道这两个形而上学的假设
I don't know which of these metaphysical hypotheses 哪一个是正确的
is the correct one. 好了
All right. 关于火车的简单讨论到此为止
Easy enough with trains. 我们已经清楚火车的这一系列问题了
We know how it works with trains. 现在我们来讨论一些
Now let's talk about something 稍微复杂点的问题
not a whole lot more complicated. 汽车
Cars. 我曾在1990年买过一辆车
I used to have a car I bought in 1990. 我画汽车的水平比我
My ability to draw cars is even worse 画火车的水平更烂
than my ability to draw trains. 这就是我的车
There's my car. 1990年的时候还很新
In 1990, it was new. 闪闪发光
It was sparkly. 在被我开了几年之后
Then I drove it for some years 车上面就多了些凹痕之类的东西
and I got some dents and so forth and so on. 给它画个微笑
Here's a smile. 到了1996年或2000年
By 1996 or 2000, 它看上去就不大好了
it wasn't looking so good. 闪光没有了  上面又多了几个凹痕
The sparkle had gone. It had a couple of dents. 这就是2000年的车
That was the car in 2000. 到了2006年
By 2006, 它上面已经有很多凹痕了
it had a lot of dents, 到了2006年  这辆车再也开不动了
2006, when it finally died. 好了
All right. 现在我们都理解
Now we all understand the claim 我在2006年拥有的那辆车跟
that the car I had in 2006 was the very same car 我在1990年拥有的那辆是同一辆车
as the car I had in 1990. 当然  再说一遍
Of course, again, 你得小心  千万别把问题理解错
you've got to be careful not to misunderstand what's being said. 我们都知道在2006年时
We all know that in 2006 车上有很多刮痕
the car had a lot of scratches 有一侧还被猛烈地撞击过
and had gotten banged in on one side 由于刮痕太多  油漆脱落  还生了锈
and pretty sorry looking in terms of the scrapes 整辆车看上去十分难看
and the paint job and the rust. 相比1990年时的这辆车
Whereas, the car in 1990, 却是崭新发亮  漆面平滑
new and shiny and smooth. 你也许会说
You might say 2006年这辆车所处的阶段
the 2006 car stage 明显不同于
is obviously not the same thing 1990年这辆车所处的阶段
as the 1990 car stage. 这问题就很像
That's like thinking that the locomotive's 讨论车头与车尾是否相同一样了
the same thing as the caboose. 不过当我说同一辆汽车时
But when I say it's the same car, 我说的不是车的所处阶段
I don't mean to be talking about car stages. 我要说的仅仅只是
I mean to be talking about a single thing 贯穿了整个时间的这个事物
that was extended through time. 我在1990年
There I am, 作为一位骄傲的新车车主  我会说
proud owner of my new car in 1990 and I say, "这是一辆车
"This is a car. 一辆能够存在不止几分钟的车
It's a car that will exist for more than a few minutes. 一辆将要持续存在好多年的车"
It's a car that will exist for years and years and years," 尽管在那时我还没有意识到
Though at the time I didn't realize 它将持续存在16年或更久
it was going to last 16 years or longer. 当我提到我的车时
When I refer to my car--as opposed to 不是指车的所处阶段或车的某一部分
what we could dub the car stage or the car slice-- 当我提到1990年的车时
when I refer to the car in 1990, 我指的是
I mean to be talking about 贯穿时间的这整个事物
the entire extended-through-time object. 当我2006年指着那一堆废铁时
In 2006, when I point to that sad heap 说"我拥有这辆车16年了"
and talk about, "I've had that car for 16 years." 我并不是拥有这辆车的所处阶段16年
Well, I haven't had that car stage for 16 years. 既不是车的所处阶段也不是车的某个部分
That car stage or that car slice, 如果我们非要这么说的话
if we wanted to talk about it that way, 其实仅仅只存在了
has only been around for however long, 几个月  几年  一年而已
months, years, a year. 它并没有存在16年之久
It hasn't been around for 16 years. 不过当我说道那辆车时
But when I talk about that car, 我说的并不只是这车现在的某一部分
I'm picking not just the current slice 或是这车现在所处的某个阶段
or the current stage of the car, 而是贯穿时间的这一整个物体
but the entire extended-through-time object. 当我说
When I say, "这就是我开了16年的那辆车"时
"That's the very same car I've had for 16 years," 我的意思是
I mean... 通过指着现在的某一部分
Think of the object extended through time that 所指代的那个贯穿了时间的事物
I'm picking out by pointing to the current slice. 与我在16年前
That's the very same extended-through-time object 通过指着当时某一部分所指代的事物
that I picked out 16 years ago 是同一个贯穿时间的物体
by pointing to what was then the current slice. 所指的部分并不相同
The slices aren't the same; 但车却是同一辆车
the car is the same. 两辆车是一样的
It's the very same car. 现在我们来想象一个更复杂的问题
Well, now let's imagine a somewhat more difficult case. 在2006年底  我的发动机坏了
At the end of 2006, my engine failed. 我把车卖给了一个商人  收废品的
I sold the car to a dealer, junk dealer. 假设在2010年
Suppose that in 2010 我在废品站里看到了一辆车
I see a car in the junk lot 它看起来是如此的熟悉
and it looks familiar to me. 我说"哇哦  那是我的车"
I say, "Whoa! That's my car." 它到底是不是我的车呢
Is it or isn't it my car? 这就有点类似于
This is sort of like the case 工厂挡住视线的那个例子
with the factory blocking the view. 1990年至2006年  这很好判断
1990 to 2006, very easy. 我可以天天在自家车库里看到那辆车
Saw the car every day in my garage. 不过现在我们有四年
But here is a four-year-- 与工厂挡住视线不同的是
Instead of a factory blocking my view, 这次是时间的迷雾遮挡了我们的视线
it's the mists of time blocking my view. 而我的问题是"这还是我的那辆车吗"
And I ask, "Same car or not?" 这一次
Again, by this time, 我觉得你们已经不需要我提醒了
I imagine you don't need to be warned, 不过我还是要再提醒几次
but let me just warn you a couple more times. 我问的并不是
I'm not asking, "这辆车2010年所处的阶段
"Is the car stage, the 2010 car stage, 跟2006年那辆车的所处阶段一样吗"
the same car stage as the 2006 car stage?" 也许不一样  也许很不一样
Maybe not. Maybe obviously not. 我问的是
I'm asking rather... 通过指着这辆车2010年的所处阶段
in pointing to the 2010 car stage, 我指的其实是整个
I mean to be picking out an entire 贯穿了时间的实体  即这辆车
extended-through-time entity, the car. 所以我的问题是
And I'm asking, "那个贯穿时间的实体与我之前
"Is that the very same extended-through-time entity 拥有的贯穿时间的实体是一样的吗"
as the extended-through-time entity that I used to own?" 我很想知道  可答案却是"不知道"
I wonder. And the answer is, "Don't know." 时间的迷雾挡住了我的视线
The mists of time are blocking my view. 所以我不知道答案是什么
I don't know the answer. 不过我们知道有哪几种可能存在
But we know what the possibilities are. 一种可能是  是同一辆车
One possibility is that indeed it's the very same-- 我就不画全了  就画个2008年的
I won't draw it all, 2008 and so forth. 它可能是我之前的那辆车
It could be the very same car. 如果我们知道
If we knew what it took to have 这车的每个所处阶段的话
the various stages of a car 那它们加起来和那辆车就是一样的
add up to the very same car, 这就是其中一种可能
then that would be one possibility. 不过还有另一种不同的可能
But there might be a different possibility. 也有可能是
It could have been that after 在我把车卖给废品商后
I sold it to the junk dealer, 他把车碾毁
he crushed it, 把它变成了一堆金属块
turned it into a heap of metal 那就是我的车子的终点
and that was the end of my car. 而我2010年在废品站看到的那辆车
And the car I'm seeing on the dealer's lot in 2010 也许是另外一辆有着自己历史的汽车
might be some other car with its own history. 我们想要知道的是
What we're wondering about is, 是否只有一个
is there a single-- 这里有一个专业术语
well, here's a piece of jargon 是否只有一个"时空虫"
--is there a single "Space-time worm" here 还是有两个呢
Or are there two? 当我在2010年看到那辆车时  我说
When I look at the car in 2010 and say, "这有辆车
"There's a car. 我想知道它是否是我的那辆"
I wonder if it's the same car," 我问的是这件贯穿了
I'm asking about this thing that's extended-- 很明显它也贯穿了空间
well, obviously through space, 因为车辆总是要占点空间
since cars take up some space-- 并且贯穿了时间的物体
and through time. 看起来有点像虫子
Looks a bit like a worm. 所以哲学家们称其为时空虫
So philosophers call them space-time worms. 那么这辆车的时空虫
Is the space-time worm that makes up this car 和组成我之前那辆车的时空虫是一样的吗
the same space-time worm as the one that made up my car? 是同一条虫  还是有两条呢
One worm there or two? 答案也许是
And the answer might be, "不知道  我们需要更多的事实根据"
"Don't know, need to have more facts." 不过至少找到了我们需要解决的问题
But at least that's what the question is. 现在
Now 从形而上学的角度来看
metaphysically, 有很多种方法可以提出
there's different ways of trying to pose the set of issues 我开始时谈到的那一系列的论点
that I've begun to talk about. 我们是否该说
Should we say, 正如我们谈到火车时提到的
as we might say with the train, 一辆火车是由
the train is made up out of 不同的车厢组成  包括车头和车尾
the various cars, the locomotive, the caboose, 以及中间的车厢
and the intervening cars? 那么火车  我们一般会这样看火车
So the train--that's the way we normally think about trains, 至少我个人是这么看的
at least the way I normally think about trains-- 火车有点像三明治  对吧
the train's a bit like a sandwich, right? 从形而上学的角度来看  基本组成部分
The metaphysically fundamental things 就是车尾  车头和中间的车厢
are the caboose, the locomotives, the intervening trains. 如果它们以正确的方式连接起来
If they're glued together in the right way, 它们就组成了一辆火车
they make up a train. 那从形而上学的角度来看
What's the right kind of 火车是被什么连接起来的呢
metaphysical glue for trains? 它是由那些小车钩连接起来的
Well, it's being connected with those little locks. 这可能是  也可能不是正确思考
That may or may not be the right way to think about 我提到的汽车所处阶段或组成部分的方法
what I've been calling car stages or car slices. 从某些形而上学的角度来看
On some metaphysical views, 你可能会说  正如火车一样
you might say, just exactly like with the train, 汽车的各个阶段是形而上学中的基本部分
the car stages are the metaphysically fundamental things 而一辆汽车  一个贯穿时间的物体
and a car, something extended through time, 由汽车的各个阶段连接起来
is glued together like a sandwich 就像一个三明治一样
from the car stages. 我们可能又会想
And then, we might worry about 那汽车的形而上学的粘合剂又是什么呢
what's the relevant metaphysical glue for cars. 从其它形而上学的角度来看
On other metaphysical views, 汽车本身才是最重要的
no what's really prior is the car itself, 而谈论汽车的各个阶段只是为图方便
and talking about car stages is a certain convenience, 这样可将基本物体即汽车  切分开来
a kind of way of chopping up the fundamental thing, the car. 因此  用加州大学洛杉矶分校的哲学家
So, to use an analogy that I think David Kaplan, 提出的比喻来说
a philosopher at UCLA offers, 你可以将其想象成
it's as though you have to think of 一根能够切片的大腊肠或意大利肠
it more like a bologna or salami that you can slice. 某些情况下你可以谈论它的切片
If--For certain purposes you can talk about slices, 但根本上它还是意大利腊肠
but the fundamental thing's the salami. All right. 说到车
In thinking about cars, 我们是否该说
should we say 构成汽车的基本要素
that the fundamental thing 是它所处的各个阶段
is the car stages 像三明治一样把它们连起来
and they get put together like a sandwich 就构成汽车了
to make cars? 还是应该说基本要素
Or should we think that the fundamental thing 是这辆贯穿时间的车
is the car extended through time 它可以被分割成各个阶段
and it can be sliced up to make car stages? 基于我们的目的
For our purposes, 我认为不需要讨论这个
I think we won't have to go there. 这些都不重要
It doesn't really matter. 只要我们接受
As long as we're comfortable talking about 时空虫  汽车
entire space-time worms, the cars, 以及它的部分或者阶段这些说法即可
and the slices or the stages. 我们并不是非得问
We don't have to ask 哪种说法更为形而上学
which is metaphysically prior. 你还会注意到  我会提出
You should also notice that-I should also mention that 一些其它形而上学的观点
there are other metaphysical views 有关物体随时间流逝到底是怎么回事
about what goes on when an object exists over time. 我这样做是为了引出一个建议
I've been here helping myself to the suggestion 即我们应像思考空间延伸一样
that we should think about extension over time 以同样的方式思考时间的延伸
analogously to the way we think about extension over space. 这也是为何我开始以空间为例  即火车
That's why I started with a spatial example, the train, 然后才提出时间的例子  即汽车
and moved to the temporal example, the car. 然而有些哲学家认为
And there are those philosophers 这种思考方式是错误的
who think that's exactly the right way to think about it 他们认为
and those philosophers that think 不对不对  这是一种误导
no, no, that's misleading. 他们认为当物体贯穿时间时
When an object is extended over time, 其实是这整个物体
really the entire object's right there 存在于每一个时刻
at every single moment. 这个问题很有趣  也很困难
These are interesting and difficult questions. 但同样  基于我们的目的
But again, I think for our purposes, 我们无须讨论这些
we don't have to go there. 因此我将用时空虫
So I will help myself to this language of 这个术语来说明
space-time worms, 物体不仅具有空间维度
objects that extend not only over space 也具有时间维度
but also over time. 注意要将整个时空虫
And distinguish the entire worm 与其构成部分或所处阶段区分开来
from the various slices or stages 即时空虫的组成部分
that either make up the worm 或者说将其分割成的东西
or that we could slice the worm into. 我一直强调的重点
The point that I've been emphasizing is, 第一个就是
well first point, of course, has been, "不要把阶段
"Don't confuse the stages 与整体的时空虫搞混了"
with the entire space-time worm." 阶段可以不同
The stages can differ 而且不需要时空虫变化
without the entire space-time worm 阶段就可以不同
being a different worm. 我讲的第二个重点就是
Second question I've hinted at that we're about to turn to, 虽然现在还没讲到
not literally turn to at the moment, 但马上会说的是
but shortly we'll turn to is, "相应的粘合物是什么"
"What's the relevant glue?" 是什么将同一样东西
What makes two stages, 划分为两个阶段
stages of the very same thing? 在我举的火车那个例子中  这很明显
In the case of trains, as I say, it's fairly obvious. 但在汽车的例子中呢
What is it in the case of cars? 是什么将这辆
What makes the 1990 car stage 贯穿时空的车
a stage in the very same car, 划分为1990年
the extended through space and time worm car, 和2006年这两个阶段的呢
as the 2006 stage? 将这些阶段粘合起来的
What's the metaphysical glue 形而上学的粘合物又是什么
that glues these stages together? 答案就是  虽然还存在疑问
And the answer, not that there aren't puzzles about it, 但答案大致上就是
but the answer is roughly, "如果车的每块金属材料
"It's the very same car 每块塑料  电线都是相同的
if it's the very same hunk of metal 那这就是同一辆车"
and plastic and wires." 这是之前那辆车
There was the car. 由金属  塑料
A car is just some metal and plastic, 和橡胶构成
rubber. 并且这些材料从2000年
And that very same hunk continued into 2000 一直延续到2006年
and it continued into 2006. 所以判断这两辆车
The glue, the key 在跨越时间后是否是同一辆车的关键
to identity across time for cars, 便是构成它的每一块材料是否相同
is being the same hunk of stuff. 但这并不是说
Now, that doesn't mean 构成车的每一个原子都要相同
it's got to be the same atom for atom. 我们知道那是不可能的
We know that's not true. 比方说我的方向盘
Look, think about my steering wheel. 每次我抓着方向盘开车的时候
Every time I grabbed the steering wheel to drive, 都会磨损掉成千上万的原子
I wore away thousands of atoms. 即使丢失一些原子
You can lose some atoms 它仍然是同一个方向盘
and still be the very same steering wheel. 时不时的  我还会换车胎
Every now and then, I'd replace the tires on my car. 但尽管如此  这车还是没变
But for all that, it was the same hunk of stuff. 这又引出了一个有趣的问题
Now this raises an interesting issue. 到底改变多少部件后
How many changes of the constituent parts 可以使得车仍然是同一辆车呢
can you have and still be the same hunk of stuff? 如果这门课要求我们思考
If this was a class in which we were going to worry about 贯穿时间的同一性的普遍问题的话
the general problem of identity across time, 我们便应该直视这一问题
this would be a problem we'd have to directly face. 但既然我们只是通过
But since we are only looking at enough 同一性这个问题来引出
of the problem of identity to get to the question 我们真正要思考的问题
that we really want to think about, 即贯穿时间的人格同一性的本质
the nature of personal identity across time, 所以我不打算继续讲那些问题
I'm not going to pursue that. 我只想指出
I just want to flag the thought 随着时间的推移
that you can be the very same hunk of stuff, 即使构成物体的原子发生了改变
even if some of the constituent atoms 它仍然可能是同一样物体
have changed along the way. 即便更大的部分发生变化
And even bigger parts. 你可以将车头灯换掉
You can replace the headlights 但它仍然是同一部车
and still be the same hunk of stuff. 总之  在汽车这一例子中
Anyway, that's what's gone on in the car case, 1990年到2006年是同一辆车
same hunk of stuff 1990-2006. 而我于2010年在废品商看到一辆车
And when I see the car on the junk dealer's yard in 2010 并问"这是我的车吗"
and ask, "Is that my car or not?" 答案便取决于  只要我们知道
The answer lies in--if only we could know-- 构成它的材料是否相同
is that the same hunk of stuff or not? 这就是关键  形而上的粘合剂就是
That's what the key. The metaphysical glue is, 存在相同的材料
being the same hunk of stuff. 好了  来看我们真正关心的问题
All right, let's turn now to the case we really wonder about, 人格同一性
personal identity. 这里有一个人
Here's somebody 正在给你们上课
lecturing to you 在2007年
in 2007, 雪莱·卡根
Shelly Kagan. 我们想象2050年也有个人
We imagine there's somebody in 2050 我们问  "他是雪莱·卡根吗"
and we ask, "Is that Shelly Kagan?" 我们暂且叫他"X先生"
We'll call him "Mr. X." 我们问  "他俩是同一个人吗"
We ask,"Is that the same person or not?" 再提醒一下
Now again, at this point 不要陷入一个误区
you're not going to be tempted by the mistake. 我并不是在问
I'm not asking, "这个X先生所处的人生阶段
"Is this person stage Mr. X 是否与雪莱·卡根2007版完全相同呢"
the same person stage as SK 2007?" 当然不是
Obviously not. 雪莱·卡根2007版还留有头发
SK 2007 has still got his hair, 蓄着胡子  站得还多少有些笔直
has the beard, stands up more or less straight. X先生头也秃了  胡子也掉光了
Mr. X is bald, doesn't have a beard. 我想应该把他画成个驼背
I suppose I should have drawn him bent. 我画得像吗  再加个小拐棍
Can I do that? A little cane. 我并不是问
I'm not asking, "这个X先生所处的人生阶段
"Is the person stage Mr. X 是否与雪莱·卡根2007版完全相同呢"
the same as the person stage SK 2007?" 好像在说电脑什么的
Sounds like a computer or something. 快去买雪莱·卡根2007版
Get the SK 2007! 我问的不是这个
I'm not asking that. 我问的是  我说的是
I'm asking, I'm saying, "看
"Look, 当你看到当前的阶段
when you look at the current stage, 当前这个人并且开始想象成
the current person slice and think about 这一整个贯穿时间的实体
the entire extended-through-time entity, 组成雪莱·卡根这个人
the person that makes up Shelly Kagan, 或者说那就是雪莱·卡根
or that is Shelly Kagan, 这个人是否与你脑中那个
is that the very same person 贯穿时间的
as the extended-through-time person 2050年的X先生
that you got in mind when you point to 是同一个人呢"
the Mr. X 2050?" 他们所处的人生阶段显然是不同的
The stages are obviously different. 但是通过观察这些阶段
But by looking at the stages, 我们辨认出了
we pick out 组成这个人的时空虫
a space-time worm that makes up a person. 然后我们问
And we're asking, "它与我们之前得出的那个时空虫
"Is that the very same space-time worm 是同一个吗
as the one we picked out previously 亦或是  它与我们之前得到的时空虫
or a different space-time worm 不一样"
than the one we picked out previously?" 估计答案会是
And the answer, presumably, is going to be, "这取决于
"Well it depends on getting clear on 这些阶段是否以正确的
whether the stages are glued together 形而上的方式被连接起来"
in the right metaphysical way." 接着我们就会想知道
And so, what we'd like to know is, well, 是什么将一个
what does it take for two person stages 贯穿时间的人
to make up or be part of 划分为两个人生阶段的呢
the very same extended-through-time person? 将一个贯穿时间的人
What's the metaphysical glue 粘合起来形而上地粘合剂又是什么
that underlies being a single extended-through-time person? 人格同一性的关键是什么
What's the key to personal identity? 如果我们能够清楚地知道
If we could get clear about 那个形而上学的问题的答案
what the answer to that metaphysical question, 即人格同一性的关键是什么
the key to personal identity, 我们至少就可以知道
we'd at least know 下面这个问题的答案
what we needed to find out to answer the question, "这是同一个人吗
"Is this one person or two? 这些部分是否以正确的方式粘合起来"
Are the pieces glued together in the right way?" 另一个问题
Different question, 我们希望最终能得到答案的问题
the question that we're ultimately hoping to get an answer to. "我能幸免一死吗"
"Could I survive my death?" 再回想一下我们开始提的那个问题
Well look, think again about the question we started with. 我能活过这个周末吗
Could I survive the weekend? 要活过这个周末
To survive the weekend, 必须得有一个活人
there's got to be somebody who's alive, 在下周二活着
some person on Tuesday 并且这个人与你们现在看到的
and that person's got to be the very same person 你们现在想到的这个人
as the person you're looking at now, 是同一个人
you're thinking about now. 或者从阶段的角度看
Or to put it in terms of stages, 那个人  那个阶段
that person's got to be--that stage, 那个部分必须和
that slice has to be part of 现在这个阶段
the very same extended-through-time 同属于一个时空虫
space-time worm as this stage is. 它们得按正确的方式粘合起来
They've got to be glued together in the right way. 我们还不能确定
We can't tell whether that's true 除非我们弄清粘合物究竟是什么
until we know what the glue is. 但至少我们能够预期
But at least we anticipate that, well, 下周二会有某个人在这里
there will be somebody here on Tuesday 他会被正确地粘合起来
who is glued together in that way, the right way, 不管结果到底是什么
whatever that turns out to be. 这些阶段将会被正确地粘合
The stages will be glued together in the right way. 假如我再问
Suppose I asked then, "我能幸免一死吗"
"Will I survive my death?" 好吧  我会乐观一点
All right, so I'm going to be optimistic. 我假设自己活到2040年
I'm going to assume that I make it to 2040. 2040
2040? 我还不到90岁
I won't even be 90 yet. 不算过于乐观
That's not too wildly optimistic. 乐观  但不过分乐观
It's optimistic, but not wildly optimistic. 所以这位是雪莱·卡根2040版
So here's the SK 2040. 我们知道
We know that 有一个贯穿时空的
there's an extended through space and time, 时空虫  一个人
space-time worm, a person. 然后假设
Then let's suppose, sadly, 我不幸于2041年去世
2041 my body dies. 那么我问  "我能够幸免一死吗
And I ask, "Could I survive my death, 其实是说  肉体死亡后我还能幸存吗"
that is to say, the death of my body?" 我们想知道  在2041年之后
Well, we want to know, after 2041, 例如2045年
let's say 2045, 是否存在一个人
is there somebody who's a person, 代号X先生
call him Mr. X. 有没有可能
Could it be the case 2045年有一个人
that there'd be a person in 2045, 在2041年我的肉体死后
after the death of my body in 2041, 有没有可能存在一个人
could it be the case that there's a person 是你们现在所想的这条
who is part of the very same space-time worm 时空虫的一部分
that you're thinking about right now? 有没有可能呢
Could that be or not? 我们没法回答这个问题
We can't answer that question 直到我们弄清楚
until we are clearer about 到底怎样才能拥有跨越时间的同一性
what does it take to have identity across time. 人格同一性的关键是什么
What's the key to personal identity? 形而上的粘合剂又是什么
What's the metaphysical glue? 我们一旦弄清楚
Once we get clear about what the 什么是形而上的粘合剂
relevant metaphysical glue is, 我们就可以这么问
we'll be in a position to start asking, "这到底可不可能发生呢"
"Could this happen or not?" 好了
All right, 这就是我想问的问题
that's the question I want to turn to, then. 在这个问题上
What are the possible positions 有什么可能的情况
on this question? 人格同一性的关键是什么
What's the key to personal identity? 怎样成为同一个人
What's it to be the very same person? 就像我们可能多少有点误导地问
As we might put it somewhat misleadingly, 是什么使"两个"人
what is it for "Two" People 成为完全相同的
to really be the same single 贯穿时间的同一个人
extended-through-time person? 假设我们相信灵魂存在
Suppose we believed in souls. 那自然就会提出
Then here would be a natural proposal. 人格同一性的形而上学的关键
The metaphysical key to personal identity 在于拥有完全相同的灵魂
is having the very same soul. 假设我是个二元论者
So suppose I was a dualist. 我就会说"看  你看的是一具肉体
I'd say, "Look, you're looking at a body, 但与这具肉体密切相关的
but connected in this intimate way with this body 其实是它的灵魂
is a particular soul, 雪莱·卡根的灵魂"
the soul of Shelly Kagan. 为什么说
What makes it true 下周二要给你们上课的那个人
that the person lecturing to you next Tuesday 是雪莱·卡根  同一个人呢
is Shelly Kagan, the very same person, 是因为他俩的灵魂
what makes that true is 是完全相同的
that it's the very same soul. 只要现在这个灵魂
As long as this soul 下周二又跑来这里上课
is here again on Tuesday, 那他就还是雪莱·卡根
It'll be Shelly Kagan. 如果下周二来的不是这个灵魂了
If it's a different soul, 那他就不是雪莱·卡根了
it's not Shelly Kagan." 如果我们相信了这种灵魂论
That's the natural thing to suggest 那就很自然会这样想
if we believe in the soul view. 人格同一性的关键在于
The key to personal identity-- 不是灵魂论者只能这么说
not the only thing a soul theorist can say, 而是他们自然而然会这么说
but the natural thing for a soul theorist to say-- 人格同一性的关键
the key to personal identity 在于拥有完全相同的灵魂
is having the very same soul. 灵魂同则人同
Same soul, same person. 灵魂不同则人不同
Different soul, different person. 试想一下上帝
Imagine that God 或者魔鬼  或者诸如此类
or a demon or what have you, 出于某种不正当的理由
for whatever perverse reason, 割断了维系在
severs the ordinary connection 肉体与灵魂间的联系
between my body and my soul 然后再重新接上
and then reconnects the wires, as it were, 这样就是一个不同的灵魂
so that there's a different soul 控制并且附在
animating and controlling 下周二的那个肉体上了
this body on Tuesday. 不管出于什么违反常情的原因
For whatever perverse reasons, 也许为了说明某种哲学观点
maybe to make some sort of philosophical point, 那个人决定非要下周二来
that person decides to come in anyway on Tuesday 给你们上哲学课
and lecture to you about philosophy. 根据我们提的这种观点
According to the view that we're taking, 暂且将它称为灵魂论
which we'll now call the soul view, 根据灵魂论的说法
according to the soul view, 下周二来上课的
it won't be me 就不是我了
lecturing to you on Tuesday. 为什么呢
Why not? 因为我们刚刚规定
Because we've just stipulated 这两个灵魂是不同的
it's not the same soul. 这是另一个灵魂
It's a different soul. 人格同一性的关键
The key to personal identity, 根据人格同一性的
according to the soul theory of 灵魂理论
personal identity, 人格同一性的关键
the key to personal identity 在于拥有同一个灵魂
is having the same soul. 当我自问
When I ask myself, "我能活过这个周末吗"
"Will I survive the weekend?" 我其实要问的是
what I'm asking is, "我的灵魂下周二还会来吗"
"Will my soul still be around come Tuesday?" 只要我的灵魂还在
As long as my soul still exists 还起作用
and is functioning, 那就还是我  我就还在
it's still me. I'm still around. 事实上  插一句
In fact--peeking ahead of course, 这也是为什么我们常被灵魂论所吸引
and this is why we are often drawn to soul views-- 即使我的肉体死亡
even if my body dies, 只要我的灵魂仍然存在
as long as my soul continues to exist, 我就继续存在
I continue to exist. 根据灵魂论的观点
The key to personal identity, 人格同一性的关键
according to the soul view, 在于拥有同一个灵魂
is having the same soul. 所以只要我的灵魂还在
As long as my soul continues to exist, 就还是我
it's still me, 不论肉体是否还活着
whether or not my body's still alive. 恰恰是因为这个原因
And it's precisely for this reason that at least the soul, 相信灵魂存在
belief in the soul, 并结合人格同一性的灵魂理论
combined with the soul theory of personal identity, 至少提供了幸免于死的可能性
holds out the possibility of surviving my death. 我们现在也许还不知道
We may not know 在人的肉体毁灭后
that the soul will continue to exist 灵魂是否还会继续存在
after the destruction of the body, 但至少它看似是可能存在的
but at least it seems like a possibility. 正如我们所知  柏拉图
Plato of course, as we know, 曾试着证明
tried to argue that we could know, 有理由相信
that there was--there were good grounds for believing 死后灵魂可以继续存在的
the soul would continue to exist. 我说过我找不到那么有说服力的理由
I've said I don't find those grounds so convincing. 但就算我们找不到证据表明
But even if we didn't think we could show 死后灵魂真得继续存在
that the soul would continue to exist, 但至少它是有可能残存的
at least it could, 那认为灵魂能够继续存在
it would make perfect sense to think about it 就完完全全说得通了
continuing to exist. 那么我就可以在肉体死后继续存活
And so I could survive the death of my body. 反过来说
In contrast, 先别对我肉体死后
it looks--Prospects don't look so promising 灵魂的继续存在抱有太大希望
for surviving my death of my body 如果我们不相信二元论
if we don't believe in dualism, 如果我们是物理主义者
if we're physicalists. 如果一个人仅仅是个具有人体功能的肉体
If a person's just a P-functioning body, 那他肉体死亡之后会怎么样呢
how could it be that after the death of his body 他还存在吗
he's still around? 我们等会儿再细说这个问题
Well, we'll say more about that a little bit later. 回到刚才说的灵魂论
Come back to the soul view. 只要灵魂是完全一样的  那就还是我
It's me as long as it's the same soul. 如果灵魂不一样  那就不是我
It's not me if it's a different soul. 现在来考虑下接下来这个假设
Now consider the following possibility. 假设过了周末
Suppose that over the weekend, 在星期天凌晨三点
at 3:00 a.M., Saturday night, Sunday morning, 当我睡觉的时候
while I'm asleep, 上帝给我的肉体
God replaces my soul with a different soul, 换了个灵魂
hooks it up to the body, 还给那个替代的灵魂注入
gives that soul, that replacement soul, 我所有的记忆  信仰
all of my memories, all of my beliefs, 各种欲望  以及意愿
all of my desires, all of my intentions. 那个人星期天清晨起来说
Somebody wakes up Sunday morning and says, "真是个好日子  活着真好
"Hey, it's a great day. Wonderful to be alive. 我是雪莱·卡根  该去上班了"
I'm Shelly Kagan. Got to get to work." 随便说什么
Whatever it is. 尽管他说"我是雪莱·卡根"
Says "I'm Shelly Kagan"; 但他并不是
but he's not. 根据灵魂论的观点  他不是我
According to the soul view, he's not. 因为根据人格同一性的灵魂理论
Because according to the soul theory of personal identity, 要成为我
to be me 他就必须拥有我的灵魂
that person's got to have my soul. 在这个故事中  他并没有我的灵魂
And in this story, he doesn't have my soul. 我的灵魂被破坏了  假设这样
My soul got destroyed, let's suppose, 星期天凌晨3点
3:00 a.M. Sunday morning. 一个新灵魂诞生了
A new soul got created. 这不是我
It's not me. 但的确是有一个人存在的  对吧
There's a person there, all right. 有一个刚刚出现的人
It's a person that doesn't have a very long history. 可能他还会活很久
Maybe he'll go on to have a long history. 但他是另一个贯穿时空的人
But it's a different extended through space and time person 而不是你们现在想的这个人
than the one you're thinking about right now. 因为根据灵魂论的观点
Because, according to the soul view, 要成为我  就必须拥有完全相同的灵魂
to be me it's got to have the same soul 而我们刚刚把它规定成不同的灵魂
and we just stipulated, not the same soul. 想想看这话是什么意思
Think about what that means. 如果上帝要取代我
If God were to replace my soul 星期天晚上的灵魂
Saturday night, 我就死了
I die. 所以星期天醒来的那个人不是我
And the thing that wakes up Sunday isn't me. 当然  他以为他是
Of course, he'd think he was me. 他自己这么想
He'd think to himself, "我就是上周
"I'm the very same person 教哲学的那个人
who was lecturing about philosophy last week." 可是他错了
But he'd be wrong. 那不是同一个人
It isn't the same person, 因为不是同一个灵魂
because it's not the same soul. 他错了  请注意
He'd be wrong and--notice this-- 他却浑然不知
there'd be no way at all he could tell. 他可以核对自己的各种信仰
He could check his beliefs. 核对自己的欲望  以及意愿
He can check his desires. He can check his memories. 但那不是人格同一性的关键
But that's not the key to personal identity, 根据灵魂论的观点
according to the soul view. 人格同一性的关键
The key to personal identity, according to the soul view, 在于拥有同一个灵魂
is having the very same soul. 这点他可没法核实
You can't check that. 你看不到是否为同一个灵魂
You can't see the soul to see if it's the same one. 所以如果这事发生在他身上
So if this were to happen to him, 他就不是雪莱·卡根
he wouldn't be Shelly Kagan, 他不是上周来上课的那个人
the person who'd been lecturing last week. 但他却完全无法得知这点
But there'd be no way at all he could know that. 现在
And now 你们要问自己这样一个问题
the question you would need to ask yourself is, "你怎么知道
"How do you know 昨晚你没碰上这种事"
this didn't happen to you last night?" 你今早醒来也会想
You woke up this morning thinking, 我就是原来的
I'm the very same person-- 乔  琳达或者萨里  不管是谁
Joe, Linda, Sally, whatever it is-- 反正就是昨天来上课的同一个人
the very same person who was in class yesterday. 你怎么知道
How do you know? 你怎么可能知道
How could you possibly know? 如果上帝给你换了灵魂
If God replaced your soul with a new one, 并将旧的毁之
destroyed the old one, 在新灵魂里注入你的旧回忆
gave the new one all the old memories, 旧信仰  旧欲望  旧目标等等
beliefs, desires, goals, and so forth, 上周来上课的那个人
that person who was in class last week, 昨天来上课的那人就死了
yesterday, died. 在这儿的诸位
The person who's here now 都没活过10年
hasn't been around 10 years, 20年  随便多少
20 years, what have you. 你几小时前才生出来
You were born a few hours ago. 而且你还
And there'd be no way at all 完全没办法知道这一切
that you could possibly tell. 你怎么知道
How do you know, 不光是昨晚没发生在你身上
not only that it didn't happen to you last night, 你怎么知道
how do you know something like this 不是每晚都发生呢
doesn't happen every single night, 每个整点
every hour on the hour, 每分每秒
every minute, every second? 上帝抽走了旧灵魂
God whips out the old soul, 毁之  取一新灵魂以代之
destroys it, puts in a new one with-- 也许灵魂只能维持一分半钟
Maybe souls only last for a minute and a half. 如果是那样的话  那人们就活不长久
If that was happening, then people don't last very long. 肉体也许能存活20年
Bodies may last 20 years, 50年  80年  100年
50 years, 80 years, 100 years, 可是人只能存活一小时  或者
but people would only last an hour or, 如果每分钟都在换的话  人只能活一分钟
if it's every minute substitution, a minute. 而你还完全觉察不到
And you'd never possibly be able to tell. 约翰·洛克提出了这样的担心
Now these worries were raised by John Locke, 伟大的英国哲人  他认为
the great British philosopher, and he thought, 这是难以忍受的屈辱
this is too big a pill to swallow. 这是不能强忍的痛苦
This is too big a bullet to bite. 我们不能把这种
We can't take seriously the suggestion "完全无法察觉"的说法太当真
that there's no way at all to tell 我是否还是我
whether it was still me 从这一天到下一天
from the one day to the next, 从这一小时到下一小时
from one hour to the next, 从这一分钟到下一分钟
from one minute to the next. 这种事完全不可信嘛
Just not plausible. 倒不是因为这种观点
It's not that there's anything 不合逻辑
incoherent about this view. 这种观点在逻辑上
It doesn't say anything logically 并不矛盾
contradictory about this view. 你只须扪心自问
You just have to ask yourself, "这真的就是
"Could this really be 人格同一性的含义吗
what personal identity is all about? 完全无法得知
That there'd be no way at all 我是否
to tell whether 从这一分钟活到下一分钟
I've survived from one minute to the next, 从这一小时活到下一小时吗"
from one hour to the next?" 洛克认为不对
Locke thought no. 如果你细想它的含义
You couldn't possibly take this view seriously 你就不可能把这种观点当真
if you thought about what it meant. 注意
Notice, 这并不是在证明灵魂不存在
this is not an argument that souls don't exist. 如果你发现这个论证有说服力
If you find this argument convincing, 这个论证是要说明
what it's an argument for is the claim 就算灵魂真的存在
that even if souls do exist, 它们也可能并非是人格同一性的关键
they may not be the key to personal identity. 那我们就要问问自己了
And so what we have to ask ourselves is, 还有什么别的选择吗
what's the alternative? 还有什么更好的
What better suggestion is there for 可以拿来作形而上的粘合剂呢
what we could point to as the metaphysical glue, 即人格同一性的关键
the key to personal identity? 这就是我们下节课要谈的问题
And that's the question that we'll take up next time. 



 Chapter 10: 人格同一性（二）：肉体理论及人格理论


上节课  我们讲到了
Last time, we turned to the question of 人格同一性的的形而上学标准
what the metaphysical key to personal identity might be. 到底是什么
What makes it be the case that one person, 使得未来的我
some person that exists in the future, 和现在的我是同一个人
is the same person as me. 我们讨论的第一种理论是
The first approach to this that we considered 人格同一性的灵魂理论
was the soul theory of personal identity: 即成为同一个人的关键是拥有同一个灵魂
the key to being the same person is having the same soul. 灵魂同则人同
Same soul, same person. 灵魂不同则人不同
Different soul, different person. 这一理论的问题在于
And the difficulty with that approach, 即使我们先把灵魂是否存在
even if we bracket the question 这个问题放在一边
whether or not there are souls, 这一理论的问题还在于
the difficulty with that approach was that 灵魂似乎
it seems as though the soul 可以不断变化
could constantly be changing 而我们所说的人格却始终不变
while the personality, as we might call it, stays the same. 我可以有不变的信念
I have the same beliefs, 记忆  欲望  目标
memories, desires, goals, 还有偏好等等
preferences and so forth. 但是我内心的灵魂却
But the soul underneath it all keeps 每隔五分钟就发生变化
being swapped every five minutes. 如果人格同一性的灵魂理论成立
If the soul theory of personal identity were right, 那么后来的那个人就不是我了
that would not be me. 每隔五分钟就会死掉一个旧的我
I would be--every five minutes that person would die 由一个全新的人取而代之
and we'd have a new person, 尽管我们有着相同的人格
despite having the same personality. 大多数人难以接受
Most of us find that a rather difficult thing to believe, 人可以通过这种方式不断变化
that the person could be constantly changing in this way, 但却无法识别
without having any way at all to tell. 而倘若我们不愿接受这种结果的话
And if we're not willing to accept that implication, 我们似乎就得拒绝接受
it seems as though we need to reject 人格同一性的灵魂理论
The soul theory of personal identity. 我之所以说这么多
Now, I use this cumbersome phrase because, of course, 并非是在否认灵魂的存在
I'm not here talking about rejecting the existence of souls. 而是在思考
What I'm considering right now is the question 灵魂的一致性
whether sameness of soul 是否就是成为同一个人的关键
is the key to being the same person. 而这是个
And this is a-- 这里有个逻辑上的区别值得一提
There's a logical distinction here that's worth drawing. 就算你相信灵魂存在
Even if you believe in souls, 你也无须说
you don't have to say 成为同一个人的关键
that having the very same soul is the key 就是拥有不变的灵魂
to being the very same person. 当然  如果你不信灵魂
And trivially, of course, if you don't believe in souls, 不相信灵魂的存在
if you don't believe that souls exist, 那么你当然不会认同灵魂的存在性
then you certainly can't appeal to the existence of souls, 灵魂的连续性  灵魂的一致性
the continuity of soul, the sameness of soul, 是人格同一性的关键
as the key to personal identity. 但接下来我们可能要问
But we might then ask, "还有什么别的选择吗"
"Well what's the alternative?" 自然而然  另一个观点就是
Now, the natural alternative is to say, "成为同一个人的关键
"The key to being the same person 不是灵魂的一致性
is not the sameness of the soul, 且不论灵魂存在与否
whether or not it exists, 而是拥有同一肉体"
but rather having the very same body." 再说一遍  我不打算
And again, although I'm not going to 反复讨论这个问题
go on and on about this point, 值得注意的是
it's worth noticing that 就算你真的相信灵魂存在
even if you do believe that souls exist, 也不妨碍你接受
nothing stops you from accepting 人格同一性的肉体理论
the body theory of personal identity. 不能排除这种可能
Nothing rules out the possibility that 即肉体同一是
having the very same body 成为同一个人的关键
is the key to being the very same person over time. 即使你相信灵魂存在
Even if you believe in souls, 你也可以接受肉体理论
you can accept the body theory. 而且显然
And it certainly looks as though 如果你不相信灵魂
if you don't believe in souls, 你就只能接受人格同一性的肉体理论了
you have to accept the body theory of personal identity. 事实证明
Now, as it turns out, 这种说法站不住脚
that appearance is deceptive. 对物理主义者来说还有其它的可能性
There are still other alternatives open to the physicalist, 这点我们等会儿再说
but let's come to that other alternative later. 先花点时间
Let's take a few minutes 来探讨下肉体理论
and consider the nature of the body theory, 人格同一性的肉体理论
the body theory of personal identity. 当然  就这个理论来说
On this theory, of course, 要成为同一个人必须肉体同一
the secret to being the same person is having the same body. 所以当我们问
So when we ask, 还记得上节课我说的
well, you remember last lecture I was talking about 怎么会有个人星期二
how there'd be somebody here lecturing to you, 在这里给你们讲哲学课
philosophy, on Tuesday. 这个人现在就在这里
Well, here somebody is. 这是同一个人吗
Is that the same person? 现在正给你们讲课的人
Is the person who's lecturing to you now 和之前给你们讲课的那个人
the same person as the person 是同一个人吗
who was lecturing to you before? 根据肉体理论
According to the body theory, 答案就是  问题转化为
the answer is--turns on the question, "这具肉体是否就是
"Well, is this the same body as the 上星期在这里讲课的
lump of flesh and bone 那堆皮肉骨头呢"
that was here last week?" 如果是  顺便说一下  确实是
If it is--and by the by it is-- 那么这就是同一个人
if it is, then it's the same person. 所以  我是上周给你们讲课的那个人吗
So am I the person who was lecturing to you last week? 是的  因为我的肉体没有改变
Yes, I am, because it's the very same body. 这就是肉体理论的观点
That's what the body theory says. 不像灵魂理论那么神秘
And unlike souls, where it's all rather mysterious 你很难辨别灵魂
how you could tell whether soul swapping 改变了没有
was taking place or not, 而分辨到底是不是同一个肉体
it's not all that mysterious how we check out to see 则没有那么神秘
whether the same body's been around. 就算你不辨别
Even though you didn't do it, 你也可以潜入我的屋子
you could have snuck into my house, 监视我的肉体入睡又醒来
watched my body go to sleep, get up in the morning, 跟着我的肉体一整天
followed the body around over the course of the day, 然后看着它再次入睡
see it go to sleep again. 你可以追踪这个肉体的
You could have tracked that body 时空轨迹  然后说
through space and time and said, "看  这是同一个肉体"
"Hey look. It's the very same body." 同样地
In the same way 我们也可以追踪汽车
that we are able to track in principle cars, 这是我们之前讨论过的例子
our earlier example, and talk about yeah, 这是由同一金属
it's the same hunk of metal 电线  橡胶和塑料组成的物体
and wire and rubber and plastic. 同样的车身  同样的汽车
This is the same hunk, same body. 所以  同一个肉体  同一个人
All right, same body, same person. 这就是人格同一性的肉体理论
That's the body theory of personal identity. 现在  如果我们接受肉体理论
Now, if we accept the body theory, 那我们来看看这个问题
then of course if we turn to the question, "我死后还能幸存下来吗
"Could I survive my death? 我在肉体死亡以后还能存活下来吗"
Could I survive the death of my body?" 乍一看
At first glance, 好像答案是
it looks as though the answer's going to have to be, "当然不会"
"Well, of course not." 因为当我的肉体死亡
Because when my body dies, then, 它最终会腐烂
oh eventually the body begins to decay. 随之被分解成为分子
It decomposes, turns into molecules 被土壤吸收什么的
which get absorbed into the soil or what have you. 整个过程可能会花上几年
This may take years 几十年甚至几百年
or decades or even centuries. 但我的肉体一旦死亡
But my body no longer exists 就将不复存在
after death of my body. 那么在肉体死亡后我该如何存活
And so how could I survive the death of my body, 如果我要在肉体死亡后活下来
if for me to survive the death of my body, 那么就必须得有个人是我
there's got to be somebody who's me, 倘若他是我  就要求我们拥有同一肉体
and if being me requires it being the same body, 我的肉体就得继续存在
my body would have to still be around, 但它实际上已经不存在
but it's not. 这就是最初形成的答案
That's what it looks like at first glance. 但再想一想就会发现
But at second glance we see that 至少在逻辑上
there's at least a logical possibility 肉体死亡却仍然活着是有可能的
of surviving the death of my body. 条件就是把我的肉体拼回来
All it takes is for my body to be put back together. 肉体复活
Bodily resurrection. 现在我不打算追问
Now I'm not going to here pursue the question of, "我们是否相信肉体复活
"Do we believe bodily resurrection 确有其事或者可能发生"
occurs or will occur?" 我只想指出有些宗教传统
I'll note that there have been religious traditions 宣扬这样的教义并且笃信这种可能性
that have taught and believed in this possibility. 特别值得一提的是
In particular, it's probably worth mentioning 早期的基督徒就相信
that early Christians believed in 某种类似于人格同一性的肉体理论的教义
something like the body theory of personal identity 并且相信在审判日
and believed in bodily resurrection 会发生肉体复活
that would happen on Judgment Day. 我们当然可以理解
We can certainly understand the possibility 上帝可能会导演一场奇迹
that God would perform a miracle, 将分子重新排列组合起来
put the molecules back together, 把肉体拼回来
turn the body back on. 同一个肉体  意味着同一个人
Same body, same person, 在审判日复活
come Judgment Day. 存在那种可能性
That's the possibility. 所以至少要强调这样一个事实
So it's at least worth emphasizing the fact 即使我们不相信灵魂
that even if we don't believe in souls, 我们仍然可以相信在肉体死亡后
we could still believe in the possibility 人有可能活下来
of surviving one's death, the death of one's body, 只要我们愿意相信肉体复活
if we're willing to believe in bodily resurrection. 这就是其大意
Well, that's how it looks. 让我们再深入一点
Now let's take a harder look. 这种说法假设
Talking that way assumes 当你把肉体复原的时候
that when you put the body back together, 当上帝在审判日把肉体拼起来的时候
when God puts the body back together on Judgment Day, 那个肉体仍旧是我的
that that's still my body. 是那样吗
Is that right? 我倾向于认为那是对的
I'm inclined to think it is right. 如果上帝将所有组成我肉体的不同分子
If God gathers up all the various molecules 都聚集起来
that had composed my body, 以正确的方式排列
reassembles them in the right order, 将这个钙分子置于
putting this calcium molecule next to that 那个氢分子旁边  如此这般
hydrogen molecule and so forth and so on, 以正确的方式重新组装
reassembles them in the right way-- 当然  如果上帝用我的肉体分子
obviously, if what He makes out of 造出一辆凯迪拉克的话
my body's molecules is a Cadillac, 那就不是我的肉体
then that's not my body-- 但如果他以正确的方式组合分子
but if He puts them together in the right way, 那似乎就应该是我的肉体
that seems like it should be my body. 我打个比方
So here's an analogy to give you 便于你们理解
a sense of what's going on. 假设我去修手表
Suppose I take my watch to the jeweler 因为它不走了
because it stopped working. 为了清洗和修理它
And in order to clean it and fix it, repair it, 钟表匠要把它拆开
what the jeweler does is he takes it apart. 从齿轮间剔除铁锈
He takes the rust off of the gears, 如果说现在的手表里还有齿轮的话
if there are still gears in watches. 想象这是一只坏了的旧手表
Imagine it's an old stop watch. 他清洗擦亮并且润滑了所有零件
And he cleans all the pieces and buffs them and polishes them 然后把它们重新组合起来
and then reassembles the whole thing. 一星期后我回来问他"表修好了吗"
And a week later, I come back and ask, "Where's my watch?" 他就把表递给我
And he hands it to me. 一切都很好
Well, all well and good. 现在想象一下  某个形而上学者要说
Now imagine some metaphysician saying, "等会  伙计  别急
"Wait a minute, buster. Not so quick. 那不是我的手表
That's not my watch. 确实  它的零件
Admittedly, it's composed of all the very same pieces 都是我手表里的
that made up my watch. 这些零件也的确是按我表里的次序排列的
Admittedly, all these pieces are in the very same order as my watch, 但它就不是我的表"
but still that's not my watch." 我的观点则恰恰相反
On the contrary, it seems to me 这个例子的正确答案应该是
the right thing to say about that example is, "不  那是我的手表"
"No, that is my watch." 我的手表在一段时间内被拆分了
My watch was disassembled for a period of time. 也许我们应该说我的手表
Perhaps we should say my watch didn't exist 在那一段时间里并不存在
during that period of time. 但它被重新组装起来了
But it got put back together. 于是我的手表回来了
Now that's my watch. 如果对于手表这样说是正确的
If that's the right thing to say about the watch-- 其实我觉得这种说法并无任何问题
and it does seem to me to be the right thing to say about the watch-- 那么上帝大概也可以在审判日做同样的事
then God could presumably do the same thing on Judgment Day. 他可以把我们那些分解掉的分子
He could take our molecules, which had been scattered, 重新组合起来  然后说
put them back together and say, "哈  那就是你的肉体"
"Ha! That's your body." 如果人格同一性的肉体理论成立
And if the body theory of personal identity is right, well, 那么那个人就是我了
that would be me. 所以我觉得这个说法正确
So it seems to me. 不过还有
But there's a different example 另一个不同的例子
that we have to worry about as well, 它反驳了肉体可以被分解
which argues against this proposal 再被重构的说法
that the body could decompose and then be recomposed. 由彼得·范·因瓦根提出
This is an example that's due to Peter van Inwagen. 他是当代形而上学者
He's a contemporary metaphysician, 在巴黎圣母院传教
teaches at Notre Dame. 假设我儿子用积木
Suppose that my son builds a tower 搭了一座塔
out of wooden blocks. 我家里有一套积木
We have a set of wooden blocks at home. 假设他搭了座很精致的塔
Suppose that he builds some elaborate tower. 搭得非常好  然后他说
It's very impressive. And he says, "妈妈回来的时候请让她看看吧"
"Please show it to mom when she comes home." 然后他就睡觉去了  我很高兴
And he goes to bed. And I'm very good. 等他睡觉后我就开始打扫卫生
I'm cleaning up the house after he goes to bed 可是一不小心
and oops, 我把塔给撞翻了
I knock over the tower. "上帝啊  他肯定要气死了
I say, "Oh my god, he's going to be so angry. 我答应过他我会当心的"
I promised him I'd be careful." 于是我捡起积木
So what I do is I take the blocks 把它们重新搭起来
and I put them back together, 按照我儿子的搭法
building a tower 把塔搭回原来的形状
in the very same shape 按照原来的结构
and the very same structure, 以及原来的次序重新搭建
the very same order as the tower that my son had built. 我真的很小心
And in fact I'm so careful-- 猜想这些积木可能都被编了号
perhaps the blocks are numbered-- 我很小心地把所有积木
I'm so careful that every block 都恢复原位
is in exactly the same position 和我儿子搭的一模一样
as in the case where my son built it. 我重搭或者说是我搭了这座塔
All right, I rebuild or I build this tower 我妻子回到家  我说
and my wife comes home and I say, "看看咱儿子的杰作
"Look what our son built. 这是他造的塔"
This is the tower that our son built." 听起来不太对哦
Ah, that doesn't sound right. 那不是我儿子搭的塔
That's not the tower that our son built. 而是我搭的塔  只是个复制品
That's a tower that I built. This is a duplicate tower. 当然  如果儿子醒后我不告诉他的话
Sure, if my son were to wake up and I didn't tell him, 他就不会知道那是赝品
he wouldn't know that it was a duplicate. 但当你把构成塔的木块拆开
But when you take a wooden block tower apart 再把它们拼回去
and then put the pieces back together, 一块一块地复制回去
piece for piece, duplicate, 你搭出来的与拆开前的
you don't have the very same tower 就不是同一个塔
that you started out with. 这就是范·因瓦根的观点
That's what van Inwagen says and, 对此我表示赞同
I've got to admit, sounds right to me. 如果我指着那个塔说
If I were to point to that tower and say, "那是阿里搭的塔"  我便是在说假话
"Ari built that," I'd be saying something false. "那个塔与阿里搭的是同一个塔"
"That's the very same tower that Ari built." 我则在胡说八道
No, I'd be saying something false. 所以范·因瓦根得出
So van Inwagen concludes, 如果你把一个物体拆开
if you have an object and you take it apart 再照原样拼回去
and then put it all back together again, 你无法得到与拆开前
you don't have the very same object 相同的物体
that you started out with. 所以即使审判日到来
So even if Judgment Day were to come, 上帝重组了那些分子
and God were to reassemble the molecules 从而使肉体复活
and resurrect the body, 重组前后的肉体
it's not the very same body 也截然不同
that you started out with. 所以如果人格同一性的关键
And if having the very same body 是拥有相同肉体的话
is the key to personal identity, 那复活的便是另一个人
it's not the same person. 审判日到来时
Come Judgment Day, 会生成我的一个复制品
we've got a duplicate of me, 但我将不复存在
but we don't have me. 范·因瓦根认为
That's what van Inwagen would say, 肉体即是以这种方式复活
if that's the way bodily resurrection would work. 即便抛开神学避而不谈
I don't know, theology aside, 我也不知该怎样回答这个形而上学的问题
I don't know what to say about the metaphysical questions. 当我想到塔的例子时
When I think about the tower case, 我自己也倾向于范·因瓦根的观点
I do find myself inclined to say, with van Inwagen, 赞同那不是我儿子建的塔
that's not the tower my son built. 但当我想到手表的例子时
But when I think about the watch case, 我又会说
I find myself saying 那的确是同一只表
that is the very same watch. 现在  我唯一能做的就是请你们
Now, all I can do is invite you 去思考这两个例子
to think about these two cases 然后问问自己  到底该如何解释
and ask yourself, what should we say here? 当然  有些人会认为
Of course, for those people who think 那的确是同一个塔  没问题
it really is the same tower, no problem. 这样我们就可以说  在手表和塔
Then we say, the watch and the tower, 这两个例子中  重组之后
in both cases, it's the very same object 得到的是同一个物体
when it's reassembled. 肉体复活后
Reassemble the body, 也仍旧是同一个肉体
that'll be the very same body as well. 还有另一些人认为
For those people who say, "范·因瓦根关于塔的观点正确
"Yeah, van Inwagen was right about the tower, 同样适用于那个手表
and the same thing would be true about the watch. 重组前后不是同一只表"
The reassembled watch isn't the very same watch," 那我们就可以说复活后的肉体
then we have to say bodily resurrection 和之前的肉体并不相同
would not be the very same body. 所以在审判日复活的那个人就不是我
So that wouldn't be me waking up on Judgment Day. 还有个选择就是
The alternative is to try to find some relevant difference 找出这两个例子的异同点
between the watch case and the tower case. 这样我们就能说
Something that allows us to say that "手表重组后还是那支手表
"Well, when you reassemble the watch it is the same watch. 而塔经过重组后
When you reassemble the tower, 却不再是原来那座塔
it's not the same tower. 关于为何
Here's the explanation of why 两者重组后有着不同结果的解释是这样的
those two things work differently in the reassembly cases." 当然  我们还要更进一步研究
And then of course, we'd have to further investigate 到底肉体重组
whether when you reassemble a body, 更接近于手表的例子
is it more like the watch case 还是与塔的例子比较相像
or is it more like the tower case? 我必须承认
I just have to confess, 我找不到
I don't know what the best thing to say 对这些例子的最佳解释
about these cases is. 我倾向于认为重组手表时
I find myself inclined to think reassembled watch, 前后是同一只手表
same watch. 而重组塔后  得到的是不同的塔
Reassembled tower, not same tower. 也许这两例的确存在不同
Maybe there's a difference there. 但我就是没找到一个最佳理论
I don't have a good theory as to 来解释这个不同点到底是什么
what the difference is. 正因为此
Since I don't have a good theory as to what the difference is, 我也就无法确定
I'm not in a good position to decide 重组前后的肉体
whether a reassembled body 到底是否相同
would be the same body or a different body. 我也不知道
I don't know. 因此这里有一个形而上学的问题
So there's metaphysical work to be done here 亟待那些对同一性理论
by anybody who's at least interested in 感兴趣的人们来解决
getting this theory of identity worked out properly. 不过至少
Still, at least the possibility 这个问题是有可能被解决的
that we could work this out is still there. 所以我认为最起码
So I suppose there's still at least the possibility 按照这种方式
that bodily resurrection 重新组合的肉体
would be coherent in such a way 仍有可能是同一个肉体
that it would still be the same body. 所以如果我们接受肉体理论的话
So if we accept the body theory, 那么人死后还有生命吗
could there be life after death? 肉体死亡之后还能够复活吗
Could there be survival of the death of my body? 似乎我只能说
Seems like, as far as I can tell, 有这个可能
it's still a possibility, 尽管还存有一些
although there's some puzzles here 我不知该如何回答的未解之谜
that I don't know how to see my way through. 请注意  这并不是说我相信
Mind you, that's not to say that I myself do believe 所谓的审判日的确存在
that there will be a Judgment Day, 上帝将在那天令肉体复活
and on that day God will reassemble the bodies. 但至少它的存在看上去比较合理
But it at least seems like a coherent possibility. 让我们来对肉体理论稍作提炼
Let's refine the body view. 我一直在说该理论的关键点
I've been suggesting that the key here, 即  是否是同一个人的关键
the idea of whether it's the same person or not, 在于肉体是否同一
is whether it's the same body. 但是对于那些为我们所熟悉的物体
But of course as we know in thinking about familiar objects, 我们不必苛求要整体的每一部分
we don't need to have every single piece of an object, 都相同时它们才相同
of an entity, stay the same to have the same thing. 就像我之前说的那个
So I think I previously talked about 汽车方向盘的例子
the steering wheel in my car. 每当我转动方向盘时
Every time I drive the steering wheel in my car, 会磨损掉一些原子  但这无关紧要
I rub off some atoms. But that's okay. 它仍然是同一物体
It's still the very same physical object. 在此例中
The steering wheel is-- 转动前后是否为同一个方向盘
having the same steering wheel 与其中某些部分改变
is compatible with 并不矛盾
changing of a few pieces. 这也同样适用于肉体  对吧
The same thing is true for bodies, right? 你被晒伤了  皮肤脱落
You get sunburned, your skin peels, 你失去了肉体的一些原子
you've lost some atoms in your body. 这没什么大不了的  那仍然是同一肉体
It doesn't really matter. It's still the very same body. 如果肉体是人格同一性的关键
So if body is the key to personal identity, 我们也不需要担心自己
we don't have to worry about the fact 在不断地增加或失去一些原子
that we're constantly gaining and losing atoms. 请提问
Yes, question? 好的  问题是说
Good. The question was, "如果某人大瘦身后会怎样"
"What about somebody who loses a huge amount of weight?" 他感觉不同了
They feel different. 人们对他的方式也不同了
People treat them different. 怎样解释这个例子
What about that case? 我认为我们这是在讨论形而上学
Well, I think if we're doing metaphysics, 而非心理学  从心理学角度来看
as opposed to psychology--Psychologically, 我们理解为何减轻体重
we understand why losing weight 会使你觉得
might make a real difference as to 自己与以往有所不同
how you feel about yourself. 我们甚至可以这么说
And we might even say, loosely, 她好像是变了个人
it's as though she's a whole new person. 但严格来说  我们不认为
But strictly speaking, we don't think 那的的确确是换了个人
it is literally a whole new person. 就好像我们不能说
It's not as though we say, "可怜的琳达在进美容院时就死了
"Poor Linda died when she entered the spa. 或是说她去美容院一周
Or a week into the spa 减掉50磅的体重之后就死了
when she dropped those 50 pounds. 出来的只是个拥有琳达儿时记忆的
Somebody else who remembers all of Linda's childhood, 仿真人类"
some imitator came along." 我们不会说"另一个人"
We don't say "different person." 我们会说是"减了些体重的同一个人"
We say "same person, lost a lot of weight." 对肉体理论来说这完全不是个问题
Now that's not a problem for the body view, 因为在肉体理论看来
because on the body view, 问题只在于那是否是同一个肉体
the question is, is it the same body? 我们会说  当然是
And what we want to say is, of course, look, 就好比即使你没有了胳膊
just like it's still your body 但那仍然是你的肉体
even if you break your arm. 甚至在你吃完饭后
Even though--it's still your body 那也仍然是你的肉体
after you've eaten dinner, 虽然有些分子被吸收到你的肉体中
and so now some molecules have been absorbed into your body 而之前它们并不在那里
that weren't there before. 即使失去一些分子也还是你的肉体
It's still your body after you lose some molecules, 甚至在失去大量分子时亦然
even a lot of molecules. 肉体发生变化
There can be changes in your body 与变化前后为同一肉体并不矛盾
that are compatible with it still being the same body. 我们可能会问哪些变化适用于这种说法呢
Now, we might worry about the--which changes? 是不是所有变化都适用呢
Are all the changes? 当然并不是任何变化都适用于此
You know, it's certainly not as though any change will do. 我是说  假设琳达睡着后
I mean, suppose what happens is Linda goes to bed 然后我们三更半夜跑到床边
and what we do in the middle of the night 拿走旧肉体并放上一个新肉体
is we take away that body and put some new body there. 那就是百分百的改变了
Well that 100% change, 显然变化太大了
that's clearly too much. 改变一小部分
Change of some small percentage, 例如吃饭  那没问题
from eating, not a problem. 改变一个大点的部分
Change from a somewhat larger percentage of 减轻相当比例的体重好像也没问题
losing a fair bit of weight doesn't seem to be a problem. 所以肉体上的哪些变化
So which changes in bodies 会使其变成另一个人
make for a different body 哪些变化又使其仍是同一个人呢
and which changes in body make for the same body? 尤其是在我们探讨肉体
And in particular, how should we run 是人格同一性的关键这一前提下
that if we're thinking about the body 又该如何甄别
as the key to personal identity? 我想如果我们之前就有这个疑虑
I think if we have that question in front of our minds, 我们则会说
we're going to want to say 肉体的每个部分并非同等重要
not all parts of the body are equally important. 你通过瘦身
You lose a fair bit of weight, 减掉些赘肉  那没问题
some fat from your gut, not a problem. 这有一个我喜欢的例子
Here's one of my favorite examples. 在电影《星球大战》里
In the Star Wars movies, 黑武士达斯·维德挥动他的光剑
Darth Vader whips out his light saber 砍掉了
and slashes off 天行者卢克的手
the hand of Luke Skywalker. "卢克  我是你的父亲"
"Luke, I am your father." "不"  然后他的手就没了  对吧
"No!" Then the hand goes, right? 接下来一幕
The very next scene 我一直觉得这是最精彩的一幕
--this has always amazed me--the very next scene, 卢克装上了一付假肢
Luke's got an artificial hand that's been attached to his body 之后就再也没人提起它了
and they never even mention it again. 没有人会说  "噢  可怜的卢克
No one says, "Oh, poor Luke. 被达斯·维德砍掉手后就挂了
He died when Darth Vader cut off the hand." 所以很明显
It seems pretty clear 并非肉体的所有部分都很重要
that not all parts of the body matter. 你失去手后仍可以存活
You can lose a hand and still survive. 即使失去一个手  你仍旧是同一个肉体
Same body, except now without a hand. 假设达斯·维德选择在更高的位置下手
Suppose Darth Vader had aimed a little higher 切掉了卢克的整个胳膊
and cut off Luke's entire arm. 他仍然是卢克  那仍然是卢克的肉体
It would still be Luke. It would still be Luke's body. 假设再糟糕一点
Suppose, even worse, 达斯·维德砍掉了卢克的四肢
Darth Vader slices off both arms and both legs. 那还是卢克
It would still be Luke. 仍然是卢克的肉体
It would still be Luke's body, 即便他失去了胳膊和腿
though now without arms and legs. 那究竟肉体的哪个部分才必不可少呢
What part of the body,if any, is essential? 我有个提议
Well here's a proposal. 要是弄烂卢克的脑袋
It seems to me we'd say something rather different 情况估计就不大一样了
if what happened was that what got destroyed was Luke's brain. 假如黑武士达斯·维德用原力
Suppose that Darth Vader uses the force-- 当然  是黑暗面的原力
the dark side of the force of course-- 黑武士达斯·维德利用黑暗面的原力
Darth Vader uses the dark side of the force to destroy, 把天行者卢克·行者的脑袋弄成了豌豆汤
to turn into pea soup, Luke Skywalker's brain. 现在我们就可以说
Now I think we might want to say, "看吧  卢克没了"
"Well look, no more Luke." 如果他们替换掉
And if what happens is they drag out 卢克大脑的一部分
some replacement brain, 那仍然不是卢克
it's still not Luke. 至少  肉体理论可能
At least, that's a possible version 会这么解释
of the body view. 按照这种说法
According to this version, 这种我觉得最靠谱的说法
which I take to be the most promising, 同时也是肉体理论的最佳说法
the best version of the body view, 人格同一性的关键问题在于
the crucial question in thinking about personal identity 是否是同一肉体
is whether it's the same body-- 但肉体的所有部分并非都同等重要
but not all parts of the body matter equally. 肉体中最重要的部分是大脑
The most important part of the body is the brain. 那么  为什么是大脑  毫无疑问
Well, why the brain? No surprise there, 因为我们都知道大脑
because of course the brain is the part, we now know, 大脑是肉体中
the brain is the part of the body 形成人格的地方
that is the house of your personality, 你的信仰  欲望  恐惧
your beliefs, your desires, your fears, 你的野心  目标  记忆
your ambitions, your goals, your memories. 都是由大脑产生的
That's all housed in the brain. 所以大脑这个部分
And so that's the part of the brain 便是肉体
that's the key part of the body 形成人格同一性的关键
for the purpose of personal identity. 这就是我最为欣赏的
That's what I'm inclined to think 肉体理论的最佳说法
is the best version of the body view. 有关大脑重要性的例子
We find examples of this thought, 其实有很多
that the brain is the key, in odd places. 我来给你们举个例子
So let me actually share one with you. 这是从网上找到的
This was something from the Internet 数年前我哥把它发给了我
that my brother sent to me some years ago. 据说取材于一个真实的案例
It purports to be from a transcript from an actual trial 律师对医生提起诉讼
in which a lawyer's cross examining the doctor. 你们会看到
And you'll see. 我无法确定此例的真实性
I don't actually know whether it's true or not, 也不知道这是不是别人瞎编的
whether it's just somebody made it up. 但据说是真的
But it purports to be true. 问  医生  你在验尸前
Question: Doctor, before you performed the autopsy, 有检查过脉搏吗
did you check for a pulse? 答  没有
Answer: No. 问  那你检查过血压吗
Question: Did you check for blood pressure? 答  没有
Answer: No. 问  那你检查过呼吸吗
Question: Did you check for breathing? 答  没有
Answer: No. 问  那这么说有可能
Question: So then it is possible 患者在你开始验尸的时候还是活着的咯
that the patient was alive when you began the autopsy? 答  不可能
Answer: No. 问  你凭什么这么肯定呢  医生
Question: How can you be so sure, doctor? 答  因为他的大脑
Answer: Because his brain 在我桌上的一个罐子里
was sitting on my desk in a jar. 问  虽然如此  但这位患者
Question: But could the patient 还有可能依然活着吗
have still been alive nevertheless? 答  他有可能还活着
Answer: It is possible that he could have been alive 并且在什么地方当律师
and practicing law somewhere. 这例子好笑是因为
The point--The reason that this is funny, 除了其明显的寓意以外
other than of course the obvious moral, 即律师都是白痴
which is that lawyers are morons, 这点显而易见
is that of course. 我们为何一眼就能看出这个律师很白痴呢
Why is it so clear the lawyer's got to be a moron? 因为我们很容易想到
Because of course we think, 失去一只手这人也能活
look, lose a hand, the guy could still be alive. 失去一只胳膊  一条腿也一样能活
Lose an arm, lose a leg. 但失去大脑  他就活不了了
Lose the brain, he's not alive. 所以这在哲学上也不成立
So again this is, this is hardly philosophical proof, 但它表明我们都深信
but it shows that we're drawn to the thought 大脑是人体的关键部位
that the key part of the body is the brain. 现在想想我们持有那种想法意味着什么
Now, think about what the implication of holding that view. 假设我们采用这个肉体理论
Suppose we adopt that version of the body view. 如果我做肝脏移植
If I get a liver transplant, 那么在这里
so here I am 大家取出我的肝脏
and we take out my liver 植入琼斯的肝脏
and we put Jones' liver inside. 我虽然做了肝脏移植  但我还是我
I've gotten a liver transplant. It's still me. 假设我切除了心脏
Suppose we rip out my heart 植入琼斯的心脏
and put Jones' heart in here. 我虽然做了心脏移植  但我还是我
I've gotten a heart transplant. It's still me. 假设我切除了肺
Suppose we rip out my lungs 植入琼斯的肺
and put in Jones' lungs. 我虽然做了肺移植  但我还是我
I've gotten a lung transplant. It's still me. 假设我切除了大脑  植入琼斯的大脑
Suppose we rip out my brain, put in Jones' brain. 那我是做了大脑移植吗
Have I gotten a brain transplant? 非也  事实上是
No. What's happened is that 琼斯做了
Jones has gotten 肉体移植
a body transplant. 也可以说是躯干移植
Or, as we might put it, a torso transplant. 如果我们接受这种肉体理论
If we accept this version of the body theory, 那我们就可以说人格同一性中肉体的关键
we say the crucial part of the body for personal identity 并非躯干的同一性
is not sameness of torso. 而是大脑的同一性
The crucial part of the body is sameness of brain. 就像如果我们相信人格同一性的灵魂理论
Just like "Follow the soul" was the answer 给出"跟随灵魂"这个回答一样
if we believe in the soul theory of personal identity, 如果我们相信人格同一性的肉体理论中
if we believe in the brain version 大脑是关键的话
of the body theory of personal identity, 那辨别是否是同一个人只需通过大脑
same person or not? Follow the brain. 大脑同则人同
Same brain, same person. 大脑不同则人不同
Different brain, different person. 正如我多次提到的
As I've now been saying several times, 我认为这是肉体理论的最佳说法
I think that's the best version of the body view, 尽管并非所有的肉体理论学家都认同这点
although not all body theorists believe that. 你们通过阅读作业中佩里的作品已经知道
As you know from reading your Perry, the assigned reading, 他关于人格同一性和永生的对话
his Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality, 故事的女主人公格特鲁德
the heroine of that story, Gertrude 其实格特鲁德认为
Gertrude actually thinks 肉体的关键部位是躯干
the key part of the body is the torso. 躯干同则人同
Follow the torso, follow the person. 这是她的观点
That's what she thinks. 我倾向于说  非也
I'm inclined to say, no. 如果我接受肉体理论的话
In those moods, when I accept the body theory, 我会更倾向于认为应该根据大脑来辨别
I'm inclined to think, no, follow the brain. 估计格特鲁德会说你做了大脑移植
Gertrude would presumably say you get a brain transplant, 你之所以能做大脑移植
you got a brain transplant, 是因为躯干没变
because it's the same torso. 而我想说  作为一个大脑理论的粉丝
I want to say, as a fan of the brain theory, 你做的大脑移植
you get a brain transplant, 其实是
what's really happened 另一个人做的躯干移植
is somebody else has gotten a torso transplant. 根据大脑来决定
Follow the brain. 根据大脑的多大部分呢
How much of the brain? 我们需要整个大脑吗
Do we need all of the brain? 正如我们无须考虑身体中
Well, just like we didn't have to follow the parts of the body 与人格同一性
that aren't essential for housing 无关的部分一样
the personality, 我们或许会问自己
we might ask ourselves, "我们需要整个大脑来保存人格吗"
"Do we need all of the brain to house the personality?" 研究表明
Research suggests 大脑中有不少冗余的部分
that there's a fair bit of redundancy in the brain. 你可以失去大脑的某些部分
You can lose portions of the brain 而依然运作完好
and still have a perfectly functioning, 而且还是个功能健全的人
P-functioning person. 你们或许有人知道曾经在有些实验中
Some of you may know that there have been experiments in which, 因为各种原因
for one reason or the other, 大脑的两个半球被分开过
the two halves of the brain have been separated. 你会发现
And you often end up there with, 就像两个人
well, something closer to two persons 住在同一个头骨里一样
being housed within one skull, 因为它们仍可经常以各种方式交流
because they can often still communicate in various ways. 对此我们并不是非常理解
We don't quite get that. 我收集了最好的研究结果以证明
I gather that the best research suggests 我们的大脑半球中并不存在绝对的冗余
we don't really have complete redundancy with hemispheres. 但假如有的话
But suppose that we did. 大家可以想得科幻一些
Let's be science-fictiony. 假设有理论支撑
Suppose that, as a kind of backup security, 进化使大脑中
what evolution has done 产生了如此多的冗余
is produced so much redundancy in the brain 只要半个大脑就够用了
that either half of the brain would suffice. 考虑一下大脑移植的例子
All right, so think about our brain transplant example. 琼斯和史密斯发生了意外
So there's an accident with Jones and Smith. 琼斯的躯干遭到破坏
Jones's torso gets destroyed. 但他的大脑却完好无损
His brain is fine. 史密斯的大脑被毁  但躯干完好
Smith's brain has gotten destroyed. His torso is fine. 我们将琼斯的大脑移植到史密斯的躯干上
We take Jones's brain; we put it in Smith's torso. 按原来那样接好所有的神经
We hook up all the wires, as it were. 然后他醒了
The thing wakes up. 他是谁
Who is that? 琼斯的大脑  史密斯的身体
Jones's brain, Smith's torso. 根据大脑理论来看
Follow the brain. 醒来的是琼斯
That's Jones that woke up. 版本二
Version two. 一场可怕的事故
Horrible accident. 使得琼斯的躯干被毁
Jones's torso has been destroyed 他的左脑也受损
and the left half of his brain has been destroyed. 但右脑无碍
But the right half of his brain is still there. 史密斯的躯干完好
Smith's torso is fine, 但他的整个大脑都损坏了
but his entire brain has been destroyed. 我们将琼斯的右脑
We take the right half of Jones's brain, 植入史密斯的躯干中
put it into Smith's torso, 接好所有神经
hook up all the wires the right way, 然后他醒了
the thing wakes up. 他是谁
Who is it? 是琼斯
It's Jones. 根据大脑理论来看
Follow the brain, 更确切地说
and more particularly, 不论占用了多少大脑
follow however much of the brain it takes 只要它足以
to have enough of the brain there 赋予你记忆  信仰  欲望
to still give you the memories, beliefs, desires, 等等即可
and so forth and so on. 如果它成立  它也可能是错的
If it were true--it probably isn't true, 但假若半个大脑就够用
but if it were true-- 这一命题成立的话
that half of the brain was enough, 那么半个大脑就足够了
then half the brain would be enough. 所以说醒来的是琼斯
That would be Jones that woke up. 有问题吗
Question? 很好  他的问题是
Great. The question was, "照这个理论说的话
"On this theory, what do we say about the case 如果我们将琼斯的左右脑都取出
where we take the two halves of Jones's brain, 并将它们分别植入到两个不同的躯干中去
split them, put them in two different torsos. 那当他们醒来后  两个人都是琼斯吗"
They both wake up. Would they both be Jones?" 这问题非常好
That's a wonderful question. 这的确是个非常值得思考的情况
It's a wonderful case to think about and, indeed, 我等会儿会来谈谈这个问题
I am going to come back to it. 但我暂时想把它抛在一边避而不谈
But I just want to bracket it for the time being. 不过在你们思考
But it's a great question to keep in mind 肉体理论的合理性的时候
as you think about 这个问题不容回避
the plausibility of the body theory. 我倾向于认为
All right, so I'm inclined to think 肉体理论的最佳说法
that the best version of the body theory 就是依据大脑来甄别
has to do with following the brain. 那么一个不相信灵魂的物理主义者
So one thing that a physicalist, who does not believe in souls, 他可能就会说
one thing that a physicalist could say is, "什么是人格同一性的关键呢
"What's the key to personal identity? 是肉体  肉体的同一性"
The body. Sameness of body." 我更倾向于认为
And then I'm inclined to think 肉体理论的最佳说法是
the best version of the body view 大脑理论
is the brain view. 这就是物理主义者的观点
So that's something that a physicalist can say. 这样一来  有关灵魂的观点
And for that matter, it's something that a soul, 相信灵魂的人也会说
somebody who believes in souls, could say as well: 即使有灵魂
even though there are souls, 它也可能不是人格同一性的关键
that may not be the key to personal identity. 也许肉体同一性才是
Maybe sameness of body is the key to personal identity. 这或许是物理主义者或是二元论者的观点
That's something a physicalist or dualist can say. 但这并不能
But, and this is not-- 帮我自圆其说
to make good on a promissory note I offered earlier. 这不是物理主义者或是
It's not the only view available to physicalists or, 二元论者的唯一观点
for that matter, dualists. 即便灵魂不存在
Even if there are no souls, 我们也不必说
we don't have to say that the key to 人格同一性的关键就是肉体同一性
personal identity is the sameness of the body. 我们也可以说人格同一性的关键
We could instead say the key to personal identity 就是人格的一致性
is the sameness of the personality. 最后  回到洛克派学者
After all, go back to the Lockean 对人格同一性的灵魂理论的担心
worries about the soul theory of personal identity. 似乎很难相信
It seemed very hard to believe 当记忆  信仰  欲望
that it isn't the same person 目标  野心  恐惧都相同时
when the memories and beliefs and desires 人却不同
and goals and ambitions and fears are all the same, 虽然灵魂在不断变化
even if a soul is constantly changing. 我们也许会说这还是同一个人
It seems as though we wanted to say same person. 为什么呢  简单来说就是因为人格相同
Why? Roughly speaking, because it's the same personality. 至于肉体理论
And with the body view, 当我刚才说
when I started arguing a few moments ago 肉体理论的最佳说法就是大脑观点时
that the best version of the body view was the brain view, 为什么听起来有点不可信
why did that seem plausible? 为什么我们不说卢克手被砍了他就死了
Why didn't we say that Luke died when he lost his wrist? 因为毕竟大脑才是
Because the brain, after all, 肉体保存人格的地方
was the part of the body that houses the personality. 我说过只要大脑足够就好
Enough of the brain was good enough, I said. 多少算足够呢
What counts as good enough? 足够保持他的人格就行
Enough to keep the personality. 既然我们在这里把人格
Well, if what we think is really important here 看得这么重要
is the personality, 我们何不直说
why don't we just say 人格同一性的关键就是人格呢
the key to personal identity is the personality? 以我为例
Let's just say it's me, 倘若有人
provided that there's somebody 和我有相同的信仰
who's got the same set of beliefs, 欲望  目标  记忆
desires, goals, memories, 野心  恐惧
ambitions, fears. 一言以蔽之  就是相同的"人格"
To coin a word, the same "Personality." 那么在这一新的假设下
So the secret to personal identity on 人格同一性的关键并非肉体的同一性
this new proposal isn't sameness of body, 而是人格的同一性
it's sameness of personality. 切记
Now, it's important to bear in mind 这一观点与物理主义者的身份
that this view is perfectly compatible 并不冲突
with being a physicalist. 毕竟我们不能
After all, we're not saying 要求你为了接受人格同一性理论
that in order to have personalities 就非得有点非物理主义的思想
you need to have something nonphysical. 作为物理主义者
As physicalists, we can still say 我们还是可以说人格的基础就是
that the basis of personality 以特定方式运作的肉体
is that there are bodies that are functioning in certain ways. 不过话虽如此
But for all that, 判断是否是同一个人的关键还是人格
the key to the same person could have to do with the personality 而非肉体的同一性
rather than the sameness of bodies. 当然  通常我们判断人格是否一致
Of course, normally the way you get the same personality 就是看肉体是否同一
is by having the same body. 如果我们再问
Still, if we ask, "形而上学论在这里有什么作用
"What's doing the metaphysical work here? 成为同一个人的关键到底是什么呢"
What's the key to being the same person?" 我们可以说
we can say 肉体的同一性使我们拥有相同的人格
sameness of body gave us the same personality, 但是是相同的人格
but it was sameness of personality 使之成为同一个人
that made it be the very same person. 有可能在具备相同人格的情况下
Could there be some way to get sameness of personality 肉体却不相同吗
while not having sameness of body? 有可能
Maybe. 假使有种疾病
Suppose that we had some disease. 医生告诉我一个坏消息
The doctor tells me the horrible news 说我得了这种病
that I'm going to have some disease 我的大脑最后会变成豌豆汤
that's going to eventually turn my brain into pea soup. 但幸运的是  在病变前
But luckily, just before it does it, 他们能先取出我所有的人格
they can take all of my personality 并将其储存在一个人造的替代大脑中
and put it into an artificial replacement brain. 就像安个人造心脏  人造肝脏一样
So there'll be --just like you can have artificial hearts, artificial livers, 你也可以安个人造大脑
you can have artificial brains, 并装入相同的人格
which will get imprinted with the same personality. 相同的记忆  相同的信仰
Same memory, same beliefs, 相同的欲望  恐惧  还有目标
same desires, same fears, same goals. 很显然我们做不到
We obviously can't do that. 这只是个科幻故事罢了
This is a science fiction story. 但至少我们可以从中了解到
But at least it allows you to see how the body 肉体和人格可以分离
and the personality could come apart. 这样一来我们就可以在大脑不同的情况下
And so we could have same personality 依然拥有相同的人格
without literally the same brain. 如果人格是人格同一性的关键
If personality is the key to personal identity, 那么那个人就依然还是我
that would still be me. 先花几分钟
Hold off again for a few minutes, 来看下这个问题
at least, on the question, "我们该相信哪种观点
"So what should we believe here, 躯干  还是人格"
the body, the personality view?" 让我们来试着提炼一下人格理论
Let's try to refine the personality theory. 我要再强调一下
So again, the point I was just emphasizing was 即便我们接受了人格理论
even if we accept the personality theory, 这也不会影响我们的物理主义立场
this doesn't threaten our being physicalists. 我们还是可以说
We can still say the reason 在通常情况下  人之所以有相同人格
that we've got the same personality in the normal case, 是因为人格所在之处
is there's some physical explanation of 是存在物理主义上的解释的
what houses the personality. 不过话虽如此
But for all that, 人格同一性的关键在于人格相同
the key to personal identity is same personality. 顺便说一下  要注意
Notice, by the way, 相信灵魂的人也可以接受
that somebody who believes in souls could also accept 人格同一性的人格理论
the personality theory of personal identity. 洛克就相信灵魂
Locke believed in souls. 只不过他不认为这是人格同一性的关键
He just didn't think they were the key to personal identity. 你们或许会觉得
So you might think, "不会吧  物理主义者错得也太离谱了
"Oh no. The physicalist is wrong 还说什么人格
when the physicalist says that personality-- 记忆  信仰  意识
memory, belief, consciousness, 这些都储存在躯干中
what have you--is housed or based in the body. 其实是建立在非物质的灵魂的基础上的"
It's based in an immaterial soul." 二元论者就会这么说
Dualists could say that. 不过话虽如此  二元论者还是会说
And yet, for all that, the dualist could consistently say, "灵魂同一并不是人格同一性的关键
"Still, same soul is not the key to personal identity. 人格同一才是人格同一性的关键
Same personality is the key to personal identity. 如果上帝每十分钟就要替换一次我的灵魂
If God replaces my soul every 10 minutes, 上帝之所以要这么做
as long as He does it in such a way as to imprint 是为了保证灵魂具有完全相同的人格
the very same personality on the soul, 这样就万事大吉了
it doesn't matter any more than 即使肉体的某些部分发生了变化
it didn't matter whether or not 也没什么关系
some of my body parts were changing." 所以人格同一性的人格理论
So the personality theory of personal identity 既能为物理主义者所接受
can be accepted by physicalists 也能被二元论者接受
and it can be accepted by dualists. 记住了
So, just to keep score, right now 我们现在已经讲了人格同一性的
we've got three basic theories 三种基本理论了
of personal identity on the table. 灵魂理论
The soul theory, 即人格同一性的关键在于灵魂同一
the key to personal identity is the same soul. 肉体理论
The body theory, 即人格同一性的关键在于肉体同一
the key to personal identity is the same body. 我认为肉体理论的最佳说法是
Where the best version, I think, 大脑理论
is the brain version of the body theory. 还有人格理论
And the personality theory, 即人格同一性的关键
the key to personal identity 在于人格同一
is having the very same personality. 同样  我们得谨慎
Well again, we've got to be careful 提炼这些理论
about refining this. 我先假定大家都认可
Just like we all agreed, I suppose, 你可以保持肉体不变
that you can have the very same body, 即使发生新陈代谢
even though some of the parts come and go, 增加了一些原子  又脱落了一些原子
atoms get added, other atoms get knocked off. 我们可以说  我们最好说
We can say, we'd better say, 你的人格不会发生变化
that you can have the very same personality 即使组成人格的一些元素
even if some of the elements 发生了变化
in your personality change. 毕竟  我们定义人格
After all, we defined the personality 是由一系列诸如信仰  记忆
in terms of it being a set of beliefs and memories 需求  目标  恐惧等东西组成的
and desires and goals and fears and so forth. 而这些东西实在不断变化的
But those things are constantly changing. 我现在所拥有的记忆
I have all sorts of memories now 在我十岁时是绝不会有的
that I didn't have when I was 10. 例如  我有关于结婚的记忆
I have memories of getting married, for example. 但我十岁时却并没有结婚
I wasn't married when I was 10. 那么人格理论学家要说
So does the personality theorist have to say, "人格不同了
"Uh-oh, different personality. 那孩子已然消失了
That kid no longer exists. 那人已经死了
That person died, 结婚了  记忆没了  人也就死了"
got married, no memories, died." 要这么说的话
If we say that, 我们的生命就极为短暂了
we have very, very short lives. 因为毕竟
Because after all, 我现在具有的一些记忆
right now I've got some memories 是我两小时前所没有的
that I didn't have two hours ago. 还有些记忆是我二十分钟前所没有的
I have some memories I didn't have 20 minutes ago. 倘若每获得新的记忆
If every time you got a new memory 就会产生新的人格的话
you had a new personality 并且人格理论认为
and the personality theory said 人存活的关键就是人格同一
having the very same personality was the key to survival, 那我们就只能活几秒钟
then none of us survive more than a few seconds. 如此推测  那么答案可能就是
Well, the answer presumably is going to be 人格理论的最佳解释
that the best version of the personality theory 无须满足那些条条框框
doesn't require item for item 比如具有完全相同的信仰
having the very same beliefs, 记忆或者需求等等
memories, desires, and so forth. 而是要求人格以渐进重叠的方式变化
But instead requires enough gradual overlap. 你的人格会随着时间而发展变化
Your personality can change and evolve over time. 在我还是个十岁大的孩子的时候
So here I am as a 10 year old child. 我拥有某些需求  某些记忆
I've got certain desires, certain memories. 随着时间流逝  我获得了新的记忆
As the year goes by, I get some new memories. 并忘记了曾经的一些目标
I lose some of my goals. 我不再  我十岁的时候
I no longer--When I was 10, 曾希望自己长大后当个拾荒者
when I grew up I wanted to be a trash collector. 这是我选的第一份职业
That was my first chosen profession. 某一天我放弃了这个想法
At some point I gave up that desire. 不再想成为拾荒者
I didn't want to be a trash collector anymore. 我想成为  不骗你们
I wanted to be, I kid you not, 我年轻的时候想成为一名逻辑学家
I wanted to be a logician when I was a teenager. 我想研究符号逻辑学
I wanted to study symbolic logic. 接着在某一天我又放弃了这个想法
So at a certain point I gave that up. 可见  我的记忆  需求一直都在变化
So my memories, my desires were changing, 但都是渐进式的变化
but they all changed gradually. 我失去了一些旧的记忆
I lost some old memories. 我无法完全记起
I don't remember everything 自己十岁时记得的那些事
I knew or remembered when I was 10. 我十岁时还对幼儿园有着生动的记忆
When I was 10, I had pretty vivid memories of kindergarten. 而现在我对幼儿园的记忆已经很模糊了
Now I have very sketchy memories of kindergarten. 这种变化不是突然的  而是渐进的
Still, it wasn't abrupt. It was gradual. 人格也在缓慢地发展
There was this slow evolution of the personality. 所以当人格理论学家说
And so when the personality theorist says 人格同一性的关键在于人格同一时
the key to personal identity is the same personality, 他们并不是死板地认为
they don't' mean literally 信仰和需求必须绝对不变
the very same set of beliefs and desires. 相反  他们所说的人格同一
They mean, rather, 是指缓慢演变的同一人格
the same slowly evolving personality. 打个比方
Here's an analogy. 假设我将一根绳子
Suppose I had a rope 从教室的那头
that stretched from that end of the room 一直拉到这头
all the way across to this end of the room. 两头的绳子完全同一
Very same rope at that end as this end. 绳子是由什么组成的
What makes up a rope? 正如你们所知
Well, as you know, 绳子基本上都是由纤维组成的
ropes are basically bundles of fibers, 很细的纤维以某种方式编织起来组成绳子
very thin fibers that have been woven together in a certain way. 有趣的是  这些纤维的长度
But the interesting thing is the fibers themselves 并没绳子那么长
aren't actually all that long. 它们可能就几英寸长  最多一英尺
They might be a couple of inches or at most a foot or so. 没有哪根纤维的长度
And so no single fiber 足够横穿整个教室
stretches all the way across the room. 即便某些纤维够长  但大部分还是不行
Or even if some fibers did, most of the fibers don't. 这样我们是不是就得说
Does that force us to say, "始末两端的绳子
"Ah, so it's not the very same rope 并不是一条绳子呢"
at the end as at the beginning"? 不  我们肯定不会这么说
No. We don't have to say that at all. 我们会说
What we want to say is, "因为这根绳子是由纤维交织而成
"It's the same rope as long as 它具有同一性"
there's this pattern of overlapping fibers." 一些纤维不够长  会有更多的纤维接上
Certain fibers end, but most of the fibers are continuing. 会加入些新纤维使绳子保持连续
Some new fibers get introduced. They continue for a while. 这些纤维最后也会到头
Eventually maybe those fibers end, 但同时又加入了些新的纤维
but some new fibers have been introduced in the meantime. 只要不出意外
As long as it's not abrupt. 比如我用剪刀将绳子从中剪断
Imagine I take my scissors and cut out a foot in the middle. 这时我们就得说
Then we'd say there isn't the 纤维交叠和连续的正常模式被打破
right kind of pattern of overlap and continuity. 现在我们就有两根绳子了
Now we really do have two ropes-- 一根绳子在这里  一根在那里
one rope here, one rope there. 但如果没有发生意外的话
But if, in contrast, 纤维就这样交叠连续着编织在一起
there is the right kind of pattern of overlap and continuity, 这根绳子就保持同一性
same rope, even though, 即使没有一根纤维能贯穿始终
even if no single fiber makes it all the way across. 这就可以类比
Something analogous needs to be 人格理论学家的观点了
said by the personality theorist. 即使我现在的记忆
Even if I have few or no memories 与我十岁时的记忆完全不同
identical to the ones that I had when I was 10, 也没有关系
that's okay. 我们仍然可以说  人格是同一的
We can still say it's the same personality, 因为人格的演变保持不变
the same evolving personality, 只要这种演变的模式是
so long as there's a 交叠连续的
pattern of overlap and continuity. 产生新记忆
New memories get added, 失去旧记忆
some memories get lost. 设定新目标  忘却旧目标
New goals get added, some goals get lost. 树立新信仰  摒弃旧信仰
New beliefs get added, some beliefs get lost. 可能有些信仰  需求  目标
There might be few beliefs, desires, goals 能够贯彻始终
that made it all the way through. 但只要人格的变化是交叠连续的话
But as long as there's the right kind of overlap and continuity, 人格就是同一的
same personality. 好了  我们今天学到了什么
All right, so what have we got? 三种观点
Three views-- 灵魂观点  肉体观点  人格观点
soul view, body view, personality view. 这三种不同的观点直指人格同一性的关键
Three rival theories about the key to personal identity. 那哪种是正确的呢
Now, which of these is right? 其实我自己并不相信灵魂
Well, I don't myself believe in souls, 这样你们就不会惊讶于
it's hardly going to surprise you to learn 我不认为灵魂理论
that I don't think the soul theory 是人格同一性的关键了
of personal identity is right. 对我来说  答案的选择缩减到
For me, the choice boils down to the choice 人格同一性的肉体理论
between the body theory of personal identity 和人格理论二者之间
and the personality theory of personal identity. 当然  在实际生活中
Of course, in real life, 这二者总是同时出现
they go hand in hand. 至少在一般情况下
In ordinary cases at least, 肉体同则人格同
same body, same personality. 从而两种理论都认为
Both theories are going to say 人也同一
it's the very same person. 如果你相信灵魂存在的话
And if you believe in souls, 那你可能会认为灵魂也同一
you are likely to think, same soul as well. 在通常情况下  你的灵魂  肉体
In ordinary cases, you have the same soul, same body, 人格和人本身都不发生变化
same personality, same person. 要考虑到底哪个因素
To think about which one of these 才是人格同一性的关键
is the key to personal identity, 我们就得具体问题具体分析
we need to think about cases, 或许在有些奇幻  科幻故事里
maybe somewhat fantastical, science-fictiony, 它们可以彼此分离
in which they come apart. 就好像肉体和人格
Cases in which bodies and personalities 是可以分离似的
go their own ways, as it were. 而那就是我将要做的事情
So that's what I'm going to do. 我要给你们讲个故事
I'm going to tell you a story 在这个故事里
in which 你的肉体到了某个地方
your body ends up one place 而你的人格去了另一个地方
and your personality ends up someplace else. 我希望大家能思考一下
And I'm going to invite you to think about 在这两者当中
which of these two resulting end products 哪一个才是我
is me. 你若能辨别出哪一个是你的话
If you could figure out which one's you, 那将会有助于你理解
that would tell you whether you think 到底是肉体理论正确
the body theory is the right theory 还是人格理论正确
or the personality theory is the right theory. 那现在用什么来指引我们进行思考呢
Now, what's going to be our guide? 我要讲一个比较恐怖的故事
I'm going to, rather gruesomely 当然不是现实生活中的  是个科幻故事
not in real life, a science fiction story-- 我将严刑拷打
I'm going to torture 这两种终产物中的一个
one of the two end products. 我会问你们
I'm going to ask you, "你希望我拷问哪一个呢"
"Which one do you want to be tortured?" 或者换个更有针对性的问法
Or to put the point more properly, "你不希望我拷问哪一个呢"
"Which one do you want to not be tortured?" 因为我假设  我也确实是这么认为的
Because I'm going to assume, I'm going to take it, 对你们来说
that it's important to you 不让"你"被拷问很重要
that "you" not be tortured. 所以  通过观察你想保护谁
So by seeing who you want to keep safe, 将可帮你发现两者中
this will help you see 哪个才是你心目中的真我
which one you think is you. 当然  我必须确定
Of course, I've got to be sure 你们都会正确地思考这个问题
that you're thinking about this in the right way. 你们中有些人可能非常善良且道德高尚
Like some of you are probably good, moral individuals 不希望任何人受到拷问
and you don't want anybody to be tortured. 当我说"我要拷打琳达了"
I say, "Ah, I'm about to torture Linda over there." 你们会说"不  别拷打琳达"
You say, "No, no. Don't torture Linda." 同样  如果我对你们说
Still, if I were to say to you, "我要拷打你"
"I'm about to torture you." 你们会说"不  别拷打我"
You'd say, "No, no! Don't torture me!" 当然你这么说的时候
And there'd be some extra little something 其实还有一些小小的私心  对吧
when you said that, right? 那么  我希望你们
So I want to invite you 记住这些小小的私心
to keep that extra little something in mind 当我在讲故事的时候
when we tell the stories, 我们下节课才会讲这个故事
which we won't get to until next time, 当我下次讲这个故事时  我会问
when we tell the stories next time, and I say, "好的  你们希望我拷打谁
"Okay, who do you want to be tortured, 这个人或者那个人"
this person or that person?" 问题在于  基于我们都很熟悉的
The question is, from that special egoistic perspective 这种特殊的自私观点
that we're all familiar with, 你真正在乎的到底是什么
which is the one you really care about? 这将指引我们来确定
That's going to be our guide to deciding 人格同一性的关键是什么
what's the key to personal identity. 但你们想要听这个故事的话
But to hear the stories, 下次就得来上课
you've got to come back next lecture. 



 Chapter 11: 人格同一性（三）：人格理论的异议


之前我们已对人格同一性的关键
We've distinguished three different views 将三种不同观点做了区分
as to the secret or key to personal identity across time. 分别是灵魂观点  肉体观点
There's the soul view, the body view, 以及人格观点
and the personality view. 我们暂不展开灵魂理论
Putting aside, for the most part, the soul view, 因为我已论证过世界上没有灵魂
because I've argued that there are no souls-- 虽然有时候为了比较
although occasionally I bring it out 或者对比方便  我会提到它
just for the sake of comparison and contrast-- 我们主要需要问自己
the main question we want to ask ourselves 到底选择肉体理论
is how to choose between the body view 还是人格理论
and the personality view. 肉体理论认为应该以肉体为标准
The body view says follow the body. 将来若有人占据我的肉体  那他就是我
If somebody around in the future's got my body, that's me. 人格理论的评判标准则是人格
The personality view says follow the personality, 即  由信仰  欲望  记忆
that is, the set of beliefs, desires, memories, 目标  野心等组成的整体
goals, ambitions, and so forth. 如果将来某个人
Somebody around in the future 拥有我的记忆
that's got my memories, 我的信仰  我的欲望  那他就是我
my beliefs, my desires, that's me. 这两个观点我们该如何抉择呢
How should we choose between these two views? 上节课结尾我曾提到
As I mentioned at the end of last lecture, 我想给大家做一套思考实验
what I want to do is offer us a set of thought experiments. 我们只能通过思考实验的形式
They've got to be thought experiments, 因为在现实生活中
because in real life, 肉体和人格总是并存的
bodies and personalities go hand in hand. 但通过做一些科幻实验
But by doing some science fiction experiments, 我们可以将二者分开  并且扪心自问
we can take them apart and ask ourselves, "究竟在我心目中哪一个才是我
"Which one do I think is me? 当我的肉体
When my body goes one way 和我的人格背道而驰
and my personality goes another way, 我又该何去何从"
where do I go?" 再次提醒大家
Again, just to remind you, 为了让你们更直观地感受
in order to get the intuitions actually flowing, 一旦我把肉体和人格分离开来
what I'm going to do once I've separated 我将从二者中选其一
the body and the personality this way, 对其进行折磨
is torture one of the end products. 所以我要请大家
So I'm going to be asking you 将自己置身其中
to put yourself in the first person. 想象这正发生在你自己身上
Imagine this is happening to you. 问问你自己
And ask yourself, "我希望哪个受折磨
"Which one do I want to be tortured? 或者我希望哪个不被折磨"
Or which one do I want to not be tortured?" 因为那会帮你们发现
Because that will give you some kind of evidence 那个才是你内心真正所选
as to which one you take to be you. 大家用这种自省方式
And think about this in that special first person 来自然地思考下这个问题
ego-concerned way that comes naturally to us. 先不考虑
Just bracket any moral concerns 你可能会折磨他人
you may have about torturing other people 或同意他人被折磨的道德问题
or agreeing that somebody else should be tortured. 就我们的目的而言  此时此刻
For our purposes, right now, 如果我从课堂上拉出一个志愿者
if I brought up a volunteer from the class- 然后问他  你在这里
and I'm asking you--here's you, 那边还有另一个志愿者
there's the other volunteer-- 你想让我折磨你俩中的哪一个呢
which one do you want to be tortured? 回答肯定是"折磨他吧
It's, "Let that one be tortured. 我就免了"
Don't let it happen to me." 这样我们就可以发现自己内心的真实所想
That's how we know this is me speaking. 好了  这就是我要问你们的问题
All right, so that's the question I'm going to ask you. 我可能会逐步深入这个实验
I'll probably slip into talking about this experiment 就像发生在我身上一样
as though it's being done to me. 但为了更形象  你们也应该
But to get it vivid, you should think of it 将自己摆在实验者的角度去思考
as though it's being done to you. 介绍完
I'll mention, just in passing, 这几个思维实验以后
that these thought experiments that I'm about to give, 我还会演示英国哲学家
I'm going to give a pair of them, 伯纳德·威廉姆斯的
come from Bernard Williams, 两个实验
who's a British philosopher. 好了  现在做第一个实验
All right, so case number one. Here you are. 有个疯狂的科学家绑架了你  并对你说
The mad scientist has kidnapped you and he says: "我在造思想调换器
"I've been working on mind transfer machines. 除了你
And what I'm going to do is I've got you 我还绑架了琳达
and I've also kidnapped somebody else over here, Linda. 我要把你俩联接到我的机器上
And I'm going to hook you up to my machines 然后调换你们的思想
and swap your minds. 也就是说  我会从你的脑子里
And what that means is, I'm going to read off the memories 读取你的记忆  信仰  欲望
and the beliefs and the desires from your brain 并从琳达的脑子里
and read off the memories 读取她的记忆  信仰  欲望
and desires and beliefs from Linda's brain. 然后将琳达的记忆信仰等
And then I'm going to electronically transfer 用电子方式输送到这里
Linda's memories and beliefs and so forth over here 植入你的大脑
and implant them onto this brain. 再将你的记忆信仰等
And take your memories and beliefs and so forth 植入琳达的大脑
and implant them onto Linda's brain. 整个过程中我们会先将你催眠
First, we'll put you to sleep when we do all this procedure. 然后当你醒来时
Then when you wake up, 你将处于琳达的肉体里"
you will wake up in Linda's body." 接下来
There'll be something here that, 你醒后就会说
you'll wake up and you'll say, "我怎么会在这个新的肉体里
"What am I doing in this new body? 我的胡子上哪去了
What happened to my beard? 我怎么在用这种女高音说话"
How come I'm speaking in this high female voice?" 但不论如何  你心里知道
Whatever it is, but you'll think to yourself, "我是雪莱·卡根
"Well, here I am, Shelly Kagan. 貌似我困在了琳达的肉体里
I seem to be inhabiting Linda's body. 我也不知道是怎么一回事
Don't know how that happened. 哦  对了  有个疯子科学家绑架了我
Oh yes, the mad scientist kidnapped me 把我俩对调了
and he transferred us, he swapped us. 他把我俩的肉体和思想对调了
He swapped our bodies, swapped our minds. 我猜大概就是这样吧"
I guess the whole thing works." 于是他对你做出如此一番解释
So the mad scientist explains all of this to you, 不过更可恶的是
but in order to give it a little kicker, 他还是个邪恶的疯子科学家
because he's also an evil mad scientist-- 疯子科学家本身就够邪恶的了
that may be evil already, 但他还是个邪恶的疯子科学家
but because he's an evil mad scientist-- 他说"当我完成后"
he says, "and then when I'm done--" 这儿还有个装着琳达人格的雪莱肉体
So over here we've got Shelly's body but Linda's personality. 琳达会想"我在干吗"
So Linda thinking "What am I doing?" "我怎么会在雪莱的肉体里
and "What am I doing in Shelly's body? 我怎么长胡子了"
How did I get a beard?" 于是这边是装着琳达人格的雪莱肉体
So over here, Linda, in Shelly's body. 这边是装有雪莱人格的琳达肉体
Over here, Shelly, in Linda's body. "我要折磨其中一个
"I'm going to torture one of these. 但由于我是个仁慈的邪恶的疯子科学家
But because I'm a generous evil mad scientist, 我想先问问你  我该折磨哪一个"
I want to ask you which one should I torture?" 对于这个问题
Now, when I think about this, and again, 我再次请你们置身其中来思考
I'm inviting you to think about this in the first person, 假设这事发生在你们身上
so this is happening to you. 就我自己考虑的结果  我会说
When I think about this, I say "折磨这边这位吧"
"Torture the one over here." 我会在这边琳达的肉体里
I'm going to be over here in Linda's body, 震惊于我所经历的一切
horrified at what's been going on, 惊恐地看着她遭受折磨
horrified that she's being tortured, 但起码我自己逃过一劫
but at least it's not happening to me. 这就是我思考这个例子时的第一反应
That's the intuition I've got when I think about this case. 当这个疯子科学家问我
When the mad scientist asks me, "我应该折磨哪一个"
"Which one of these two should I torture?" 我会说"折磨这个吧"
I say, "Torture this one." 因为如果我说"折磨这个"
Because if I were to say "Torture this one" 而他也这么做了  想想接下来会怎样
and then he does it, think about what's going to happen. 我会想"我是雪莱·卡根
I'll be thinking "I'm Shelly Kagan. 这太恐怖了
Oh, this is what a horrible situation. 疼  疼  快住手
Oh, the pain, the pain! Stop the pain! 快住手"
Make it go away!" 我可不想遭这份罪
I don't want that to happen to me. 如果这家伙被折磨的话  没人会觉得
If this one's being tortured, nobody's thinking to himself, "我是极度痛苦的雪莱·卡根"
"Oh, I'm Shelly Kagan in horrible pain." 所以我希望这家伙被折磨
So I want this one to be tortured. 这就是我在思考这个例子时的直觉反应
All right, that's the intuition I've got about the case. 如果你也这么认为的话
Now, if you've got that same intuition, 就想想看这个答案的含意
think about the implications of that intuition. 你是想说
You're saying that 我  雪莱·卡根  最终还是这边这个
I, Shelly Kagan, ended up over here. 但那个肉体不是我的
But that's not my body. 而是琳达的
This is Linda's body. 雪莱·卡根的身体在这里
Shelly Kagan's old body is over here. 但这个才是我
But this is the one that's me, 因为我不希望它受折磨
because this is the one that I don't want to have tortured. 所以肉体不是人格同一性的关键
So the body isn't the key to personal identity. 人格才是
Personality is the key to personal identity. 这边这个有我的人格
This has got my personality, 我在芝加哥长大的记忆
my memories of growing up in Chicago, 成为一名哲学家的记忆
becoming a philosopher, 我对我孩子寄予的希望
my thoughts about what I want to have happen to my children, 以及我对如何向妻子解释这一切的担忧
my fears about how I'm going to explain what's going on to my wife. 不论如何
Whatever it is, 这边这个有雪莱·卡根的人格
this is the Shelly Kagan personality over here. 这才是我
This is me. 这个直觉说明
That follows then that this intuition suggests 我凭直觉发现在人格同一性理论中
that what I find intuitively plausible 人格理论更可靠
is the personality theory of personal identity. 现在来讲另一个故事
Now, let's tell a different story. 如我说过  这两个故事
Both of these stories, as I say, 都是源自伯纳德·威廉姆斯
come from Bernard Williams. 伯纳德·威廉姆斯说还有另外一个例子
Bernard Williams says here's another example we can think about. 还是那个疯子科学家绑架了你和琳达
Mad scientist, again, kidnaps you, kidnaps Linda. 然后他说"雪莱  我给你说个事"
And he says, "Shelly, I've got some news for you." 这里我置换了第一人称和第二人称
I'm switching between you and me. 他说"雪莱  我给你说个事
He says, "Shelly, I've got some news for you. 我要折磨你"
I'm going to torture you. 我说"不要  请别这样对我
I say, "No, no! Please don't do it to me! 求你了  请别折磨我"
Please, please, don't torture me!" 他说"你也知道  我是个疯子科学家
He says, "Well, you know, I'm in the mad scientist business. 这是我的工作  我要折磨你
This is what I do. I'm going to torture you." 但由于我是仁慈的疯子科学家
He says, "But because I'm a generous mad scientist, 所以在折磨你之前
before I torture you, 我会先让你失忆
what I'm going to do is give you amnesia. 我要彻底
I'm going to completely 清除你的大脑记忆
scrub clean your brain 这样你就不记得你是雪莱·卡根了
so that you won't remember that you're Shelly Kagan. 不记得你在芝加哥长大的事
You won't have any memories of growing up in Chicago. 不记得
You won't have any memories 你决心要做一个哲学家的事
of deciding to become a philosopher. 你也不记得自己结了婚有了孩子
You won't remember getting married or having children. 你什么都不记得  你无欲无求
You won't remember the--all,you won't have any desire. 在我折磨你之前  一切都会被清除掉
The whole thing wiped clean, 让你完完全全地失忆
complete perfect amnesia before I torture you. 这样行了吧"
Don't you feel better?" 我可不觉得
No, I don't feel better. 我还是要受折磨
I'm still going to be tortured 而且酷刑还愈发加重了
and now we've added insult to injury. 既要失忆  又要受折磨
I've got amnesia as well as being tortured. 一点也不好受
No comfort there. "好吧"  他说  "为了让你好过点
"Well," He says, "Look, I'll make the deal sweeter for you. 在你失忆以后  受到折磨之前
After I give you amnesia, before I torture you, 我会先把你弄疯
I will drive you insane 让你确信自己就是琳达
and make you believe that you're Linda. 我一直在研究琳达  她就在那儿
I've been studying Linda. There she is. 我一直在观察她的脑电波等
I've been reading her psychology 来研究她的心理
by looking at her brain waves and so forth and so on. 所以我要混淆你的意识
And so I'm going to delude you 让你觉得自己就是琳达
into thinking that you're Linda. 我要让你以为'我是琳达'
I'm going to make you think 'oh, I'm Linda.' 当然你不会那么说  你会说'我是琳达'
You won't talk like that. 'Oh, I'm Linda.' 你会获得关于琳达
And you'll have the memories of Linda 在宾夕法尼亚长大的那些记忆
growing up in Pennsylvania 你会知晓琳达的家庭情况
and you'll remember Linda's family and, 并且像琳达一样  你会想当一名作家
like Linda, you'll want to be an author, 或是任何她想做的职业
or whatever it is that Linda wants to be. 然后我再来折磨你  你现在满意了吗"
And then I'll torture you. Are you happy now?" 不  我还是不乐意
No, I'm not happy now. 首先  我要被折磨  我会失忆
First of all, I'm being tortured. I was given amnesia. 现在你还要把我逼疯
And now you've driven me crazy and make me-- 再蛊惑我的内心  让我觉得我是琳达
deluded me into thinking that I'm Linda. 简直糟透了
No comfort there. 他说"好吧  最后一次让步
He says, "Okay, last attempt to make-- 你太不讲道理了"
you're not being very reasonable," he says. "我的最后一次让步  在把你弄疯
"Last attempt, I'm going to, after I drive you crazy 让你以为你是琳达以后
and make you think you're Linda, 我要对琳达做一样的事情
I'm going to do the corresponding thing for Linda. 让她失忆
I'm going to give her amnesia 把她弄疯
and then I'm going to drive her crazy 让她觉得她就是雪莱
and make her think that she's Shelly. 把你的一切记忆信仰欲望都给她
Give her all of your memories and beliefs and desires. 这样的话  再折磨你总没问题了吧"
Now is it okay that I'm going to torture you?" 才不呢  问题大了去了
No. It hardly makes it-- 我受折磨  失忆  发疯
it was bad enough I was being tortured 就已经够糟糕了
and given amnesia and driven insane. 你让不让别人失忆发疯
It doesn't really make it any better that you're also 又不能改善我的处境
going to give amnesia and drive insane somebody else. 不要折磨我
Don't torture me! 如果你一定要折磨谁
If you've got to torture somebody, 我不道德地说一句
I say in my nonethical mood, 如果你一定要折磨谁
if you've got to torture somebody, 就折磨她好了  别折磨我
do it to her. Don't do it to me. 我思考这个例子的时候
When I think about this second case, 就是这么个直觉
that's my intuition. 现在想想第二个例子
Now, think about the implications of this second case 对人格同一性理论有什么含意
for the theory of personal identity. 如果我不希望这边这位受折磨
If I don't want this thing over here to be tortured, 那一定是因为我觉得这就是我
that must be because I think it's me. 但如果这是我的话
But if it's me, 人格同一性的关键又是什么
what's the key to personal identity? 看来不是人格
Well, not personality, 因为在受折磨之前
because after all, this doesn't end up with 这并不是雪莱·卡根的人格
Shelly Kagan's personality before the torture. 雪莱·卡根的人格在那里
Shelly Kagan's personality is over there. 这只是雪莱·卡根的肉体
This is Shelly Kagan's body 这就表明如果我不希望他受折磨
and that suggests if I don't want this to be tortured, 是因为我相信人格同一性的肉体理论
it's because I believe in the body theory of personal identity. 根据肉体而非人格判断身份同一性
Follow the body, not follow the personality. 即便他调换了我们的人格
Even though he swapped our personalities, 他折磨的人依然是我
it's still me he's torturing. 这就是我思考伯纳德·威廉姆斯描述的
That's the intuition I've got 第二个例子时的直觉
when I think about Bernard Williams' second case. 从哲学角度来看
Now, we're in a bit of a pickle here, 我们现在陷入了困境
from the philosophical point of view. 因为当我们考虑第一个例子时
Because when we've thought about the first case, 我们的直觉好像在说
the intuition seemed to be, ah, 人格是身份同一性的关键
personality's the key to personal identity. 但当我们考虑第二个例子时
But when we thought about the second case, 我们的直觉却又好像在说
the intuition seems to be, huh, 肉体才是身份同一性的关键
body is the key to personal identity. 这就出问题了  对吧
That's bad, right? 两个例子居然使我们对同一问题
Two different cases give us two different, 得出了两种截然不同的答案
diametrically opposed, answers on the very same question. 稍等一下
One sec. 但更大的问题在于
And it's worse still-- 当然了  如果你的直觉和我不一样
Of course, if you don't share the intuitions 我只是跟你们实话实说
that I just--I was being honest with you. 那些确实是我思考这些情况时的直觉
Those really are my intuitions when I think about these cases. 如果你和我一样
If you're with me, 你也会陷入这个哲学困境
you're in a philosophical problem. 如果你和我不一样
If you're not with me, 如果你没有同样的感觉
if you didn't have the same intuitions, 那么你大概就没有这个问题
then maybe you don't have a problem. 但我确实碰到这个问题了
But I've got a problem. 问题实际上更大  因为它们不是
And it's worse still because it's not really, 如果你仔细推敲一下
if we're careful and think about it, 其实并不是这两种不同情况
it's not really as though we have two different cases 使我们直觉上有了
and intuitively we want to give different answers 两种不同的答案
to those two different cases. 它们其实是同一种情况
Really, all we've got there is just one case. 同一种情形  同一个故事
It's the very same case, the very same story, 只不过我讲了两遍而已
that I told two different times. 在这两个例子中
In both cases, 折磨开始前
before the torturing ends, goes in, 这边都是雪莱·卡根的肉体
there's Shelly Kagan's body over here 和琳达的人格
with Linda's personality 那边是琳达的肉体
and there's Linda's body over here 加上雪莱·卡根的人格
with Shelly Kagan's personality. 然后我们问"你想折磨哪个呢"
And we're asking, "Which one do you want to be tortured?" 背景是一样的
It's the very same setup. 我只不过通过强调不同的侧重点
I just emphasized different elements in a way 来诱导你们作出不同的选择
to manipulate your intuitions. 但它们其实是同一种情况
But it's the very same case. 不可能在一种情况下
It can't be that in one of them, 肉体是关键而另一种情况下人格是关键
follow the body and the other one, follow personality. 所以我们很难从中得出什么结论
So it's very hard to know what moral should we draw. 通过直觉来思考这些例子的办法
The appeal to intuition, thinking about these cases 看来也没什么帮助
doesn't seem to take us very far. 刚才有人提问  请说
There's a question back there. Yeah? 好问题  问题是这样的
Nice suggestion. So the suggestion was this. 当那个疯子科学家把我的人格
When the mad scientist put my personality, 雪莱·卡根的人格转移到琳达的肉体上时
Shelly Kagan personality, onto Linda's body, 他需要改变琳达的大脑
he had to modify Linda's brain. 而改变琳达的大脑
And in modifying Linda's brain-- 这就是刚才说的那个问题
this was the question that was just raised-- 是不是就是说他把那个大脑改造得
hasn't he actually made that brain 更像雪莱·卡根而非琳达的大脑
more like Shelly Kagan's brain than Linda's brain? 如果是的  我们能不能说
And if that's right, shouldn't we say--remember, 还记得我以前讲的肉体理论的最佳说法吗
the best form of the body view, I argued previously, 即大脑是人格同一性的关键
was the brain version. 所以如果这个真是雪莱·卡根的大脑
So if this is really Shelly Kagan's brain over here, 那肉体理论就没问题了
then this isn't a problem for the body view. 我们前面错误地认为肉体理论会指出
We were deceived when we said the body view 这里的这个是雪莱·卡根
said this is Shelly Kagan. 其实肉体理论  特别是
Really, the body view, to wit, 它的最佳版本
the best version of the body view, 大脑理论会说
that is the brain version, now has to say, "我们把雪莱的大脑搬到这儿了"
"Oh, we moved Shelly's brain and put it here." 如果你准备这么说的话
Well, if you're prepared to say that, 当然你也确实可以这么说
then indeed you will be able to say, 肉体理论是对的
yeah, it's the body view. 肉体理论不会像前面那样说
The body view says, "折磨这个家伙吧"  而会说
"Do it to this one." Rather, " "别折磨这家伙  因为他是雪莱·卡根"
Don't do it to this one, because this is Shelly Kagan." 我觉得自己不会同意你的观点
I don't actually find myself though inclined to agree with you 说这个大脑变成了雪莱·卡根的大脑
that this has become Shelly Kagan's brain. 如果你问我"雪莱·卡根的腿在哪里"
If you ask me, "Where's Shelly Kagan's legs?" 它们还在这里
They're still here. "雪莱·卡根的心脏在哪里"
"Where's Shelly Kagan's heart?" 它还在这里
It's still here. "雪莱·卡根的大脑在哪里"
"Where's Shelly Kagan's brain?" 它同样还在这里
It's still here. 那个疯子科学家似乎并没打开我脑壳
It's not as though what the scientist did was open up my skull, 取出我的大脑
take the brain out. 至少  如果你是这么想像的话
At least, if that's the way we're imagining it, 千万别这样想
don't imagine that! 所有的调换都是电子调换
This is all electronic transfer. 并不是他取出大脑
It's not as though he took the brain out 然后真的把这么一堆东西搬到那边去
and literally moved that hunk of tissue over here. 他只是
All he's done is 重新给琳达的大脑编程
reprogram Linda's brain. 打个比方可能更便于你们理解
Analogy here that might be helpful. 想象一下计算机和
Think of the difference between 存储在其里面的程序及文件
the computer and the programs and files 之间的不同
saved on the computer. 人格就像计算机上
Personality is a little bit like a program 运行的程序
that's running on the computer. 我们不仅要有一般的程序
Though we have to have not just the generic program, 还要有特定的数据文件
but the specific data files 及数据库一类的东西
and databases and so forth. 那个疯子科学家实际要做的
What the mad scientist did, in effect, was 就是彻底删净硬盘
wipe out the hard drive, 把雪莱·卡根计算机里的程序放进去
put in the other programs from the Shelly Kagan computer, 计算机还是那台计算机
but it's still the very same computer. 还是同样的中央处理器
It's still the same central processing unit, 起码我是这样想这个问题的
or so it seems to me. 当然  从某一角度说
Of course, it's true that now, in a certain way, 琳达的大脑在某种程度上
Linda's brain will be similar to the way 和雪莱·卡根以前的大脑是有些相似
that Shelly Kagan's brain had been before. 比如说
In terms of how, as it were, 就像两台计算机上都有软驱一样
the floppy drives are set up. 但是  雪莱·卡根的大脑
But still where's, literally speaking, 究竟在哪里呢
Shelly Kagan's brain? 我觉得它在那里  不在这里
I want to say it's over there, not over here. 又有人提问  请说
There was another question or comment. Yeah. 我没太听懂这个问题
I'm not quite sure what the question is. 你就这么想
So the thought is, look, 这边是雪莱·卡根的肉体
over here we've got Shelly Kagan's body 加上琳达的人格
with Linda's personality. 如果我们折磨这个人
If we torture this one, this thing, 别管是谁  这个人会想
whoever it is, is going to think to itself, "我是琳达  我很疼
"I'm Linda. I'm in horrible pain. 我真希望他能住手
I wish it would stop. 我不知能否再见到琳达的丈夫"
I wonder whether I'll ever see Linda's husband again." 而这边是琳达的肉体
Over here we've got Linda's body, 加上雪莱·卡根的人格
Shelly Kagan's personality. 如果我们折磨这个人
If we torture this one-- 折磨必定会使肉体疼痛
of course to torture, you cause pain to bodies, 但是  是意识感觉到疼痛
but the pain gets felt in the mind. 所以在这里
So over here, we've got 这个人会想
something that's going to think to itself, "我是雪莱·卡根  我很疼
"I'm Shelly Kagan. I'm in horrible pain. 我不知能否再见到雪莱·卡根的妻子"
I wonder whether I'll ever see Shelly Kagan's wife again." 当然  我们折磨的是肉体
Yes, of course, we're torturing bodies. 折磨肉体导致意识感受到疼痛
By torturing the bodies we cause pain to the minds, 从而人格感受到疼痛
the personalities, 它知道是谁在经受折磨
who have beliefs about who's hurting. 我希望你们思考的是
What I'm inviting you to think about is which one, 倘若非在这两种可怕的情景中选其一的话
if you had to choose between these two gruesome scenarios, 你会救哪一个人
which one would you rather save? 你会保护哪一个人
Which one would you rather protect? 你更在乎哪一个人
Which do you care more about? 是保你自己
Making sure that your lump of flesh 毫发无损
doesn't have its neurons hurt? 还是保那个
Or making sure that the person 心里正想着
who's thinking to yourself, "我是雪莱·卡根"的那个
"I'm Shelly Kagan" 还是  随便你取什么名
Or whatever your name is, 但都感到"我很疼"的那个
that "I'm in pain." 你肯定不希望自己叫着
You don't want to be thinking, "我是雪莱·卡根  我很疼"
"I, Shelly Kagan, am in pain." 亦或是你叫玛丽
Or if your name is Mary, 喊着"我是玛丽  我很疼"
"I'm Mary. I'm in pain." 这就是我们要寻找的答案
That's what we're trying to get straight on here. 问题是
The trouble though is that 同一个故事讲了两遍
you tell the very same story, two different times 我发现我一会儿倾向这边
and I find myself sometimes being pulled this way, 一会儿又倾向那边
sometimes being pulled that way. 所以我觉得思考威廉姆斯的例子
So I can't use thinking about the Williams cases 无益于帮我决定要相信哪个理论
as a method of deciding what do I really believe, 肉体理论亦或是人格理论
the body view or the personality view? 我发现当你用这种方式讲这故事时
I find, myself, you spin the story one way 我就认可肉体理论
and I follow the body. 你用那种方式讲这故事时
You spin the story another way, 我就认可人格理论
and I follow the personality. 如果我们需要
If we're going to have a way to decide 在两种理论中做出选择的话
between these two theories, 我们还必须寻求一些其它的论证方法
it seems as though we need some other kind of arguments. 至少我认为需要诉诸其它一些论证方法
At least, I need some other kind of arguments, 因为我对这例子的直觉
because of the intuitions 使我陷入了哲学困境
I've got about the cases. 所以让我们来看另一种论证方法
So let me turn to a different approach 是如何解决这个问题的
to solving the question, answering the question, 从而告诉我们究竟该相信哪个理论
which one should we believe? 它首先
It starts by 提出一个人格理论的
raising a certain philosophical objection 哲学异议
to the personality theory. 它会这样说  看
It's going to say, look, 人格同一性的人格理论
the personality theory of personal identity 会产生一个我们无法接受的结果
has an implication that we cannot possibly accept. 所以我们要拒绝这种理论
So we have to reject the view. 如果没有灵魂
And then become body theorists, 那我们就该认可肉体理论
if there are no souls. 这个异议是这样的  很常见的一种情况
Here's the objection. It's a common enough objection. 你们中有些人可能也会想到
It's probably occurred to some of you. 根据人格理论
According to the personality theory, 判断一个人是不是我
whether somebody is me depends on 取决于他有没有我的信念
whether he's got my beliefs. 比如说  认为自己是雪莱·卡根
For example, the belief that I'm Shelly Kagan, 知道自己在耶鲁大学教授哲学
professor of philosophy at Yale University. 拿我自己举例没什么意思
Well, I'm a not an especially interesting fellow. 不如举举拿破仑的例子  更生动一些
So let's make it more dramatic and think about Napoleon. 你们大概都听说过
You've probably read about this thing. 时不时的有些疯子
Every now and then there are some crazy people 觉得自己是拿破仑
who think they're Napoleon. 试想现在有个人
So imagine that there's right now somebody 在密歇根的精神病院里
in an insane asylum in Michigan 他认为
who's got the thought, "我就是拿破仑"
"I am Napoleon." 这个哲学异议指出
Well, the objection says, 很明显他是疯子  对吧
clearly this guy's just insane, right? 他不是拿破仑
He is not Napoleon. 他是戴维·史密斯
He's David Smith 在底特律或是别的什么地方长大
who grew up in Detroit or whatever. 他精神错乱  认为自己就是拿破仑
He just insanely believes he's Napoleon. 但是这个异议指出  人格理论会说
Yet, the personality theory, the objection says, 他就是拿破仑
would tell us that he is Napoleon 因为他有拿破仑的信念
because he's got the beliefs of Napoleon. 他有拿破仑的人格
He's got Napoleon's personality. 既然这种说法明显是错误的
Since that's obviously the wrong thing to say about the case, 所以我们要抛弃人格理论
we should reject the personality view. 不过先别这么快下结论
But not so quick. 人格理论并没有说
The personality view doesn't say 一旦某人有任何一点
anybody who has any elements at all 我的人格  那么他就是我
of my personality is me. 共同的信念
One belief in common 显然不足以证明他就是我
is obviously not enough. 比如说  我们都相信地球是圆的
Look, we all believe the earth is round. 但这不足以证明别人就是我
That's not enough to make somebody else me. 当然  "我是拿破仑"这个信念
Of course, the belief, "I am Napoleon" 是个少有的信念
is a much rarer belief. 我相信你们没有谁会有这个信念
I presume that none of you have that belief. 我自己当然也没有这个信念
I certainly don't have that belief. 拿破仑有这个信念
Napoleon had it 密歇根的戴维·史密斯也有这个信念
and David Smith in Michigan's got it. 但这又怎样呢
But so what? 一个信念  哪怕是个极与众不同的信念
One belief, even one very unusual belief's 根据人格理论
not enough to make somebody Napoleon, 也不足以证明这个人就是拿破仑
according to the personality theory. 要成为拿破仑
To be Napoleon, 你就要拥有彻底相同的人格
you've got to have the very same overall personality, 它包罗一系列错综复杂的信念
which is a very big, complicated set of beliefs 欲望  野心以及记忆
and desires and ambitions and memories. 戴维·史密斯没有这些东西
David Smith doesn't have that. 密歇根精神病院里的戴维·史密斯
David Smith in the insane asylum in Michigan 可没有征服欧洲的记忆
does not remember conquering Europe. 也没有加冕称王的记忆
He doesn't remember being crowned emperor. 更没有被英国人打败的记忆
He doesn't remember being defeated by the British. 这些记忆他一个都没有
He doesn't have any of those memories. 他甚至都不会说法语
He probably doesn't even speak French. 拿破仑说的是法语
Napoleon spoke French. 他没有拿破仑的人格
He doesn't have Napoleon's personality. 所以戴维·史密斯的例子不具说服力
So the David Smith case isn't really bothersome. 无法作为人格理论的一个反例
It's not really a counterexample to the personality theory. 人格理论认为  要成为拿破仑
The personality theory says, to be Napoleon, 你需要有拿破仑的人格
you've got to have Napoleon's personality. 但是戴维·史密斯没有
But David Smith doesn't. 当然  我们可以相信戴维·史密斯
So, of course, we can all agree David Smith, 尽管他自以为是拿破仑
despite thinking he's Napoleon, 但实际上并不是拿破仑
is not Napoleon. 这个异议无法颠覆人格理论
No problem here for the personality theory. 但是我们可以将这个例子稍作调整
But we could tweak the case. 把它修改一下
We could revise the case. 有些人格理论的反对者会说
Some foe of the personality theory could say, "那好  试想
"Okay, imagine 在密歇根的这个人
that this guy in Michigan 确实拥有拿破仑的人格
does have Napoleon's personality. 他记得自己
He's got the memories of 加冕称王  遭遇滑铁卢以及征服欧洲
being crowned emperor and being defeated, conquering Europe. 这些记忆他都拥有"
He's got all of those memories." 而且  还记得之前说的吗
And, remember 我们想让他拥有拿破仑的人格
we want him to have Napoleon's personality. 他没有戴维·史密斯的记忆
He doesn't have any David Smith memories. 他没有任何在底特律长大的记忆
He doesn't have any memories of growing up in Detroit. 拿破仑怎么可能有在底特律长大的记忆
How could Napoleon have memories of growing up in Detroit? 拿破仑是在法国长大的
Napoleon grew up in France. 然后这个异议就会说
The objection then says 即使
even if 这个人拥有拿破仑所有的记忆
this guy had all of Napoleon's memories, 信念  欲望  个性
beliefs, desires, personality, 他仍然不是拿破仑
still wouldn't be Napoleon. 因此人格理论说不通
So the personality theory's got to go. 当我思考这个例子时
Well, when I think about this example, 我认为  也许这才是对的
I think, now we've got it right. 这就是人格理论
That is, that is what the personality theory 所作的恰当解释
has to say about that case. 而我并不认为
But I'm not so confident anymore 人格理论完全是错的
that it's the wrong thing to say. 让我们在某种程度上
So think of this, as it were, 从拿破仑的角度思考
from the point of view of Napoleon, right? 拿破仑在18世纪征服欧洲
So there was Napoleon in the 1800s conquering Europe 加冕为王
and being crowned emperor, 之后被英国人击败
being defeated by the British, 被流放到厄尔巴岛  对吧
being sent to exile on, was it Elba, right? 我不记得拿破仑死在哪的了
And I forget where Napoleon actually dies, 但他记得自己病危之时
but he's got memories of getting sick and ill 眼前越来越暗  直到失去知觉
and the light begins to fade and he goes unconscious. 然后  我们发挥一下想象
And then--well, we'll at least try to 这样来说  他突然醒了过来
describe it this way--he wakes up. 在密歇根醒了过来
And he wakes up in Michigan. 他心想
And he thinks to himself, "哈  我拿破仑又回来了
"Hallo. Je suis, Napoleon! 我在密歇根做什么"
What am I doing in Michigan?" 我不懂法语  还是放弃算了
I don't speak French, so I'm going to drop that, right? " 但我最后记得的事是
But the last thing I remember 自己在厄尔巴岛病入膏肓
I was going to bed 卧床不起
from my fatal illness on the Isle of Elba. 我怎么到这来了
How did I get over here? 我要找机会重组军队
I wonder if there's any chance of reassembling my army 再次征服世界
and reconquering the world." 如果他真有那些记忆的话
If he had all of that, 我也不知道
it's not so clear to me 这样说是否正确
that it would be the wrong thing to say that, 天哪  他就是拿破仑
by golly, this is Napoleon. 我是说  这的确很怪诞
I mean, it would be totally bizarre. 现实中肯定不会发生这样的事
Things like this don't happen. 就当我们是在讲科幻故事
But of course, we're doing science fiction stories here. 那么我们能否说
So we'd say to ourselves, wouldn't we, 拿破仑复活了
somehow Napoleon has been reborn 或者说转世了
or reincarnated, 经过某种过程
taking over, by some sort of process of possession, 大卫·史密斯的肉体  现在成了拿破仑
the body of the former David Smith, but now it's Napoleon. 我觉得
I find myself thinking 也许这么说也没错
maybe that would be the right thing to say. 请说
Yeah? 好的  你就这么想
All right, so the thought was, 看  那家伙
look, this guy over here, 大卫·史密斯的肉体加上拿破仑的人格
David Smith's body with Napoleon's personality-- 大家搞清楚一点
And let's be clear about this. 大卫·史密斯的人格已经不存在了
There's no underlying David Smith personality still there, 作为一个反例或是我们想要的例子
to have the counterexample or the example that we're after. 他是不可能拥有两种记忆的
It can't be that he's got mixed together 不可能既有在法国长大的记忆
memories of growing up in France 又有在底特律长大的记忆
and memories of growing up in Detroit. 他自己也从不会想
He never thinks to himself, "我是大卫·史密斯
"I'm David Smith. 怎么变成拿破仑了"
How did I become Napoleon?" 如果你那么想的话
If you got that junk, 就说明你还没有拿破仑的人格
you don't have Napoleon's personality. 他已经完完全全拥有拿破仑的人格
He's just got Napoleon's personality through and through. 但接下来问题是  也许事情不是这样的
Well, the question was, maybe that's not so. 毕竟
After all, 他其实并没有拿破仑的经历  不是吗
he doesn't really have Napoleon's experiences, did he? 拿破仑有做称帝的经历
Napoleon had the experience of being crowned emperor. 这个家伙却没有
But this guy didn't have the experience 加冕称王的经历
of being crowned emperor. 也许我们应该说
Maybe what we should say is 这家伙自以为拥有
he thinks he remembers the experience 加冕称王的经历
of being crowned emperor, 但那记忆是虚幻的
but it's a fake memory. 那只是种幻觉或是妄想
It's an illusion, or a delusion, 他自己其实从未真正经历过那些
but he didn't really have the genuine memory. 要拥有真实的记忆
To have the genuine memory, 他就必须真正当过皇帝
he has to have been crowned emperor. 但他没当过
And he wasn't crowned emperor; 拿破仑才当过皇帝
Napoleon was crowned emperor. 但直到我们确认他不是拿破仑之前
Well, that's what we could say, but we can't say that 我们还不能那么肯定
until we decide he's not Napoleon. 总之  如果人格理论是对的话
After all, if the personality theory is right, 那么既然他拥有所有的记忆
since he does have all of these memories, 或者叫半记忆  或是准记忆
or semi-memories, or quasi-memories, 随便怎么叫吧
or whatever we should call them. 如果人格是关键的话  那他就是拿破仑
If that's the key, then it is Napoleon. 于是他就记得自己曾做过皇帝
So he is remembering being crowned emperor. 如果你要说 不不不
If you want to say, no, no, no, 那些记忆都是幻想  绝对是
those memories are illusions, it must be, 因为你觉得他不是真的拿破仑
because you don't think he's really Napoleon. 这种情况下  你发现自己其实
In which case, what you're discovering is 并不相信人格理论
you don't really believe the personality theory. 他为什么不是拿破仑  因为肉体不同
Why isn't he Napoleon? It's not his body. 这个肉体不是拿破仑的
The body of Napoleon is not this body 要想成为拿破仑  你必须拥有他的肉体
and to be Napoleon, you've got to have Napoleon's body. 这是一种可能的观点
It's a possible position. 这就是
That's the thought 肉体理论家提出拿破仑的反例时
that the body theorists are trying to elicit in you 试图灌输给你的思想
when they offer these Napoleonesque counterexamples. 无论你拥有多少人格
You could match the personality as much as you want, 你都不会成为拿破仑
but it's still not Napoleon. 你同意吗  那就是他们的观点
Don't you agree? That's what they say. 如果你同意
And if you do agree, 那就意味着你并不接受人格理论
that shows you don't really accept the personality theory. 我在此并不打算下一个结论
I'm not going to try to settle this here. 我们究竟该相信哪个
Who should we believe? 人格理论还是肉体理论
The personality theory or the body theory? 我只是想让你们思考
I'm trying to invite you to think about 这些观点之间的异同之处
the implications and the differences between these views 以便你们能够清楚地了解
so as to get clearer in your own mind about 自己到底接受哪一个观点
which of these you accept. 要强调的是
In many moods--at least, 当我思考  并非简单地思考
when I think about not the simple, 大卫·史密斯到底有一个还是两个人格
the ordinary David Smith case with a single belief or two, 而是思考整个肉体  用词不当
but the full bodied--that's a bad term-- 思考拿破仑的所有方面
the full blown Napoleon case 所有记忆  所有信念
with all the memories, all the beliefs. 假如大卫·史密斯说
You know, suppose David Smith there thinks, "我想起来了  我想起来了"
"I remember. I remember." 我不会用法语说这个
I can't say it in a French accent. "我想起自己小时候在法国
"I remember playing as a lad in France 挥舞着玩具刀玩耍"
burying my little toy saber." 一些拿破仑从未写进日记的记忆
Some memory that Napoleon never wrote down in his diaries. 然后我们去法国考证
And we go and we dig up in France 并发现了那把玩具刀
and there is the saber, right? 这个人记得只有拿破仑才记得的事
This guy remembers things that Napoleon would remember. 那么我就会觉得  也许他真是拿破仑
I find myself thinking, well, maybe that's Napoleon. 假设将这例子稍作变化
Imagine a slightly different version of this case. 拿破仑死在自己的床上
Napoleon dies on his death bed, 在天堂醒来后说
wakes up in heaven saying "我拿破仑是欧洲之王
"Je suis Napoleon. I was emperor of Europe 我终于死得其所
and now I have come to my due reward. 来到天堂了"
I am here in heaven." 好像我们都会说
Well, it seems like what we would want to say is, "没错  那是拿破仑"
"Yeah, that's Napoleon." 即使他已经没有肉体  但他仍是拿破仑
It's Napoleon even if it doesn't have Napoleon's body. 拿破仑的肉体已经在法国腐烂
Napoleon's corpse is rotted in France. 上帝给了拿破仑一个新的天使肉体
God gives Napoleon some new angelic body. 很容易理解
It seems straightforward. 如果他有拿破仑的记忆
If it's got Napoleon's memories, 信念  欲望  目标  以及其它种种
beliefs, desires, goals, and so forth and so on, 我们还认为那不是拿破仑吗
wouldn't we say it's Napoleon? 想象一下
Imagine that-- 让我们从天堂回到人间
back to this earth-- 这种拿破仑式的事件其实经常发生
this Napoleon type of case happened all the time. 我们常把这类事情称为
We might have a term for this sort of thing-- 着魔
possession. 有时
Every now and then, 人们的肉体会着魔
people's bodies get possessed. 他们会突然变成另一个人
They become this other person who's, 之前的人格消失了
now, personality has taken over. 如果这种事情发生得足够频繁
If this happened frequently enough, 不仅限于科幻小说那种
instead of just a little science fiction story 类似大卫·史密斯的例子
like with the David Smith case, 也许我们应该
maybe we'd say, yeah, 对着魔这件事做出解释
possession is one of these things that needs to be explained. 人格是如何传递的
How is it the personality travels? 也许物理学能够给出一些解释
maybe there'll be some sort of physical explanation for it. 也许我们该说  没错
Still, maybe we'd say, yeah, 这些人被取代了
the people have been taken over. 他们变成了别的人
They've become somebody else. 所以我个人认为
So speaking personally, 我不认为拿破仑是个有说服力的反例
I don't find the Napoleon objection a telling one. 它没有给我一个反对人格理论的理由
It doesn't give me a reason to reject the personality theory. 但至少我们看到了
But we can now tweak the worry 另一种不同的思路
in a slightly different way. 现在再看拿破仑在法国时
Okay, so here was Napoleon back in France 拥有的记忆  信念等等
with his memories and his beliefs and so forth and so on. 最后死在床上  逐渐睡去
Death bed, goes to sleep, 失去意识  等等
goes unconscious, whatever it is. 我刚才在故事里说他醒来
I told you a story in which he wakes up, 或者说他的人格醒来
or his personality wakes up, 我们把场景设在了密歇根
however we should put it, in Michigan. 但如果能在密歇根发生
But if it could happen in Michigan, 同样也就能在纽约发生
I suppose it could also happen in New York. 而如果能在纽约发生
And if it could happen in New York 同时也能在密歇根发生
and it could happen in Michigan, 我假设在这两个地方
I suppose it could happen in New York 都能发生
and Michigan. 那么现在
So right now, 想象一下两个人
let's imagine two people 都拥有拿破仑的人格
with Napoleon's personalities, 完整的人格
complete personalities, 一个在密歇根  另一个在纽约
one of them in Michigan, one of them in New York. 现在又该怎么说
Whoa. What should we say now? 人格理论该怎样解释这种情况呢
What is the personality theory going to say about this case? 我不知道在黑板上
So I don't know how to draw personalities 该怎么画人格
very well on the board, 我会画一个有四肢的小人
so I'll draw little stick figures of bodies, 但其实我所指代的是人格
but I mean these to be the personalities. 我们有一个持续存在
So here we've got the continuing, 随时间进化
evolving over time-- 全部发生在法国的
this is all taking place in France-- 拿破仑的人格
the personality of Napoleon in France. 这是死亡的界线
There's the deathbed scene. 在上面我们有
Now, up here we had 一个拥有拿破仑人格的人
somebody with Napoleon's personality continuing. 当然  他会不断改变  不断进化
Of course, he's going to change. He's going to evolve. 就像历史上真实的拿破仑一样
Just like the actual historical Napoleon 不断有新的信念  新的欲望
kept having new beliefs and new desires, 如果拿破仑真的是在密歇根的话
if this really was Napoleon in Michigan, 那他会对密歇根
he'll start having some new desires 产生些新的欲望以及信念
and beliefs about Michigan, 也许是拿破仑压根就没想过的
which perhaps Napoleon never gave any thought to at all. 谁知道呢
Who knows? 这儿就是密歇根
So this is Michigan over here. 并且我认为这些
And I said I was willing to entertain the possibility 都是拿破仑
that this is all Napoleon. 你可以这样想
Napoleon, if you think of it, 拿破仑穿越了时空
Napoleon's a person extended through space and time. 根据人格理论
According to the personality view, 确认一个未来的人与一个
what makes somebody in the future 过去的人是否同一人的关键是
the same person as somebody in the past 他们是否是整个延续人格中的两部分
is if it's part of the same ongoing personality. 这就是密歇根的情况
So maybe that's what we've got going on in the Michigan case. 现在来思考一个新的问题
Now, we imagine in our new version of the worry 在纽约有另一个人拥有拿破仑的人格
somebody with Napoleon's personality over here in New York. 如果密歇根那个人并不存在
Now, if the Michigan guy hadn't been there, 情况会怎么样呢
what I would have done, 如果我相信人格理论
if I believed in the personality theory or 或者说当我相信人格理论时
when I believe in the personality theory, 我会说"看  拿破仑
is say "Oh look, Napoleon-- 在纽约转世了"
reincarnated in New York." 人格理论就应该这么说
That's what the personality theory should say 并且如果我说纽约那个人是唯一的
and I said it doesn't seem like a crazy thing to say 其实也不是太离谱
if we only had the guy in New York. 就像说密歇根那个人是唯一的一样
Just like it wasn't a crazy thing to say 也并不离谱
if we only had the guy in Michigan. 问题是  想象一下
The trouble is, imagine the case 倘若我们发现一个在密歇根
where we've got one guy 拥有拿破仑全部人格的人
who's got all of Napoleon's personality in Michigan, 还有一个在纽约拥有拿破仑全部人格的人
one guy who's got all of Napoleon's personality in New York. 这又该怎么说呢
Now what should we say? 该怎样选择呢
What are the choices here? 我猜也许可以说
Well, I suppose one possibility would be to say 纽约的那个人是拿破仑
the guy in New York is Napoleon. 密歇根的那个不是
The guy in Michigan isn't. 那家伙只是个拥有拿破仑人格的神经病
He's just an insane guy who's got Napoleon's personality. 你是可以这么说
You could say that. 这问题之所以难以回答
The reason that it seems difficult to say though is 是因为似乎
because it seems like 反过来说也同样说得通
it would be just as plausible to say the reverse. 不不不  纽约的那个不是拿破仑
Say no, no, no. It's not the New York fellow who's Napoleon. 密歇根的那个才是
It's the Michigan fellow who's Napoleon. 我们也可以这么说
Well, we could say that, 但问题在于没有什么好的理由
but the difficulty is there seems to be no good reason 来支持密歇根的那家伙  而非纽约那个
to favor the Michigan fellow over the New York fellow. 同样也没什么好的理由
Just like there was no good reason 来支持纽约的那家伙  而非密歇根那个
to favor the New York fellow over the Michigan fellow. 似乎很难让人相信
Saying that one of them is Napoleon 说其中一个是拿破仑而另一个不是
and the other one isn't seems very hard to believe. 那还有什么别的选择呢
Well then, what's the alternative? 我想还有种可能就是
Well, I suppose another possibility is to say, 至少我觉得值得一提
at least another possibility worth mentioning, 即  他们都是拿破仑
is to say they're both Napoleon. 虽然这么说很离谱
Somehow, bizarrely enough, 拿破仑被一分为二了
Napoleon split into two. 不过当拿破仑一分为二之时
But when splitting into two, 分化到两个人体上
he split on to two bodies, 而且这两人都是拿破仑
but they are both Napoleon. 现在  重要的是理解
Now, it's very important to understand 这一问题会变得多么离谱
how bizarre this proposal would be. 这个观点并不是要说存在着两个拿破仑
The claim is not now we've got two Napoleons 而且两人还不尽相同
who are, of course, not identical to each other. 不是这样  它的意思是只有一个拿破仑
No, no, we've got a single Napoleon. 这个拿破仑过去生活于
A Napoleon who was in one place 法国
in France 而现在又同时出现在
and is now simultaneously in two places 美国的两个地方
in the U.S. 这说法似乎难以置信
That seems very hard to believe. 它违背了我们对人的基本认知
It seems to just violate one of our fundamental notions 就形而上学的观点来说
about how people work, metaphysically speaking. 一个人不可能同时出现于两个地方
People can't be in two places at the same time. 但也许这种形而上学的质疑
Well, maybe that metahphysical claim 应该被摒弃
I just made should be abandoned. 也许我们应该说  在正常情况下
Maybe we should say, oh, under normal circumstances, 一个人不可能同时出现于两个地方
people can't be in two places at the same time. 但是在眼下这个案例中
But if you had something like this, 有可能会出现的情况是
by golly, this guy would be, 那个密歇根的人就是拿破仑
Michigan dude is Napoleon and he's the very same person, 而且他与纽约的那个是一个人
the very same person as New York dude. 在纽约和密歇根的两个人是同一个人
New York dude and Michigan dude are a single person, 是分别位于两地的同一个拿破仑
Napoleon, who is bilocated. 虽然这其实没发生
It doesn't happen. 但如果真的发生了  也是有可能的
But if it did happen, it could happen. 也许我们只能这么总结
Well, maybe that's what we should say. 但是再一次  我能告诉你们的是
But again, all I can tell you is, 我觉得这实在是不容易办到
I find that too big a price to pay. 一个人不可能同时出现于两处
People can't be in two places. 一种说法认为人类是时空虫
It's one thing to say people are space-time worms 在空间和时间之中不断延伸发展
extended through space and extended through time. 还有一种说法是
It's another thing to say that 人类是以这种Y字型结构发展的时空虫
they are Y-shaped space-time worms. 这似乎又违背了一项
It seems to violate one of 有关人的形而上学的基本观点
the fundamental metaphysical things about how people work. 不过我得提醒你们
All right, I've got to remind you though, 以上这些可能性都不怎么令人信服
none of the options here are all that attractive. 所以当我说
So when I say, 你不能做出这样那样的定论时
you don't want to say that, you don't want to say that, 我们就能逐渐排除错误的可能性
we're going to run out of possibilities. 继而得出我们接下来的结论
So maybe this is what you'll want to say. 如果非得说拿破仑是那个密歇根人
All right, saying that Napoleon is in Michigan 而不是纽约人  似乎并不让人信服
but not New York doesn't seem very attractive. 说他是纽约人
Saying he's in New York 而不是密歇根人也不怎么让人信服
but not Michigan doesn't seem very attractive. 说他同时出现在两个地方
Saying he's in both places at the very same time 仍旧不是很可信
doesn't seem very attractive. 那么还有别的可能性存在吗
But what other possibilities are there? 如果他不是其中一个人
If he's not one but not the other, 而且也不是同时存在的两个人
and if he's not both, 那么唯一可能就是  两个都不是拿破仑
the only other possibility is that he's neither. 考虑到这种情况
Given this situation, 这两个人都不是拿破仑
neither of these guys is Napoleon. 这些人是相互独立的
You've got separate people. 只有一个拿破仑
There's the person Napoleon, 这只时空虫  最终死于法国
a space-time worm that came to an end in France. 而另一只时空虫存在于密歇根
And there's some space-time worm taking place in Michigan, 另一只时空虫存在于纽约
some space-time person worm taking place in New York. 但这二人都不是拿破仑
But neither of them are Napoleon. 对我而言
That seems to me to be the least 这似乎是目前所得的可能性里
unattractive of the options 最令人信服的
we've got available. 但是请注意  如果我们这么说
But notice that if we say this, 认为这两个人
if we say neither of these guys, 尽管他们有着拿破仑的人格
despite having Napoleon's personality, 但却都不是拿破仑的话
neither of these guys is Napoleon, 那么人格同一性的人格理论
then the personality theory of personal identity 就是错误的了
is false. 这理论被驳回了  我们得放弃这一理论
It's rejected. We're giving up on it. 因为根据人格理论
Because the personality theory, after all, 如果你有了拿破仑的人格
said if you've got Napoleon's personality, 你就是拿破仑
you're Napoleon. 但是现在却出现了具有拿破仑人格
But now we've got people that are not Napoleon 却不是拿破仑的人
but they've got Napoleon's personality. 所以如果我们认为这两个人
So the personality theory, follow the personality, 都不是拿破仑的话
is wrong 那么以人格为关键的人格理论
if we say neither of these guys 就是错误的了
is Napoleon. 不过这确实是所有可能性中
But that does seem to be 最能让人接受的一种
the least unacceptable of the options. 至少对我而言是如此
At least that's how it seems to me. 那么人格理论被驳回了
So the personality theory's got to be rejected. 我认为这是对的  我认为事实上
Now, I think that's right. I think, in fact, 人格理论是应当被驳回的
the personality theory's got to be rejected. 但这并不意味着我们不能修正它
But that doesn't mean we couldn't revise it. 我们可以试着做一些改变
We could try to change it in a way 保留人格理论中的大部分要义
that keeps much of the spirit of the personality theory, 同时避开我们刚才遇到的问题
but avoids some of the problems we've just been looking at. 以下是我认为
Here's what I think 对人格理论的粉丝而言
is the best revision available 最佳修正版本
to fans of the personality theory. 他们会说我们这是在简化理论
They should say we were simplifying 而且简化得过了头
unduly. 我们是在简化和歪曲这一理论
We were simplifying it, getting it wrong, 因为我们会说"根据人格理论
when we said, "Follow the personality. 如果你有拿破仑的人格
If you've got Napoleon's personality, 那就足以认为你就是拿破仑"
that's enough to make you Napoleon." 这是不对的
That's not true. 我们需要加个额外条件
We need to throw in an extra clause 来解决上述的这种分歧
to deal with branching, splitting cases, 也就是我之前所谈的这一案例
of the sort that I've just been talking about. 我们应该说
We need to say, 如果未来有个人
if there's somebody in the future 拥有了我的人格
who's got my personality, 只要
that person is me, as long as 有且仅有这个人拥有我的人格
there's only one person around in the future 那么这个人就是我
who's got my personality. 但如果出现了重复的情况
If you have multiple examples, 比如人格被分到不同的人身上
duplications, splittings and branchings, 那么他们之中没有一个人是我
nobody, none of them is me. 所以人格理论原本认为
So where the original personality theory said, 人格同一
same personality, 就足以确定是同一个人
that's good enough for being the same person, 新的版本则应该
the new version throws in 增加没有竞争者这一条件
a no-competitors clause, 也就是说人格没有出现分支
throws in a no branching clause. 应该说  人格同一可以确定同一个人
It says, same personality's good enough, 只要人格没有被划分到其他人身上
as long as there's no branching. 如果人格出现了分支
If there is branching, 那么每一条分支所在者都不是我
neither of the branches is me. 现在  如果我们这么说
Now, if we say that, 加入无分支这一限制条件
if we throw in the no branching clause, 那我们也可以说
then we're able to say, look, 在我刚开始讲的故事里
in the original story I was telling, 如果有一个密歇根人有着拿破仑的人格
where there was the Michigan guy 同时并不存在那个纽约人
who had Napoleon's personality but no New York guy, 那这个密歇根人就会是拿破仑
that really would be Napoleon, 因为只有他一个人拥有拿破仑的人格
because it would have the same personality with no competitor. 同样的
Similarly, had we had 如果在纽约有个人有着拿破仑的人格
somebody with Napoleon's personality in New York 同时没有那个有着相同人格的密歇根人
and nobody with the personality in Michigan, 那么这个纽约人就是拿破仑
that guy would have been Napoleon, 因为这个人与拿破仑的人格相同
because we would have had the same personality 没有分支  没有竞争者
with no branching, with no competitor. 但是在这个案例里有着人格分支的情况
But in the case where we've got branching, 出现了两个有着拿破仑人格的人
where we've got somebody with Napoleon's personality 一个在密歇根  一个在纽约
both in Michigan and New York, 这情况违背了无分支的规则
that violates the no branching rule, 那么得出的结论就是他俩都不是拿破仑
and we just have to say nobody's Napoleon in that case. 正如我所说  对我而言这是现有的
As I say, that seems to me to be the best revision 对人格理论的最佳修正版本
of the personality theory available to them. 那么我们现在要问的是
So what we now need to ask is, 我们真能相信这一修正吗
can we possibly believe that revision? 我们真能接受这种无分支的规则吗
Can we possibly accept the no branching rule? 这一无分支规则
The no branching rule 其本身
seems rather bizarre 似乎就相当奇怪
in its own right. 回想一下之前最开始的那个例子
Think about the ordinary familiar cases 我们来让它有理可循
that we're trying to make sense of. 我和上次那个给大家讲课的人
I'm the same person as the person 是同一个人
that was lecturing to you last time. 根据人格理论
According to the personality theory 或者修正后的人格理论
or the revised personality theory, 这是因为我有相同的人格
that's because I've got the same personality. 上次讲课的那个人认为自己是雪莱·卡根
The guy last time thought he was Shelly Kagan, 认为自己是哲学教授
believed he was professor of philosophy. 而我也认为我是雪莱·卡根
I think I'm Shelly Kagan. 我也认为我是哲学教授
I believe I'm the professor of philosophy. 他有着自己童年的全部记忆
He's got all sorts of memories of his childhood. 而我也有着相同的记忆
I've got the same memories. 他有着完成著作的欲望
He's got desires about finishing his book. 而我也有着相同的欲望
I've got those desires about finishing my book. 人格同一  所以那个人就是我
Same personality, it's me. 这就是人格理论得出的结论
That's what the personality theory says. 所以我总结  这就是我
So I conclude, hey, it's me. 我知道你们都担心
I know you were all worried 几天不见  我是否还活着
whether I'd survive over the break a couple days. 你们回来上课  看到的还是我
Came back, it's still me. 我活过了周三
I made it through Wednesday. 我真得活过周三了吗  或者我该问
Or did I? Or perhaps I should ask, "他活过了周三吗"
"Or did he?" 没错  上周二的时候有个人在这
Yeah, there was somebody there on Tuesday 而现在周四  又有一个人在这
and yeah, there's somebody here on Thursday, 而且现在在这的这个人
and yeah, this person here now 与周二在这的那个人
has got the same personality as the guy 有着相同的人格
who was there on Tuesday. 但是根据无分支规则
But according to the no branching rule, 我们暂时无法认定
we can't yet conclude that I'm the same person 我就是周二给你们上课的那个人
as the person that was lecturing to you on Tuesday. 我们无法确定这是否是同一个人
We can't conclude that 除非我们知道没有别的竞争者
until we know that there aren't any competitors, 也就是眼下没有其他人
that there isn't anybody else right now 和他具有相同的人格
who also has the same personality. 如果今天我是所有人里
If I'm the only one around today 唯一具有雪莱·卡根人格的人
who's got Shelly Kagan's personality, 那么我和周二时给你们上课的人
then I'm the same person as the person 就是同一个人
who was lecturing to you on Tuesday. 但假如  我自己并不知道
But if, unbeknownst to me, 我假设大家也不知道
and I presume unbeknownst to you, 现在在密歇根有一个人
there's somebody in Michigan right now 也拥有雪莱·卡根的人格
who's got Shelly Kagan's personality, 那我们就得说
then we have to say, huh, 搞了半天  原来我不是雪莱·卡根
it turns out I'm not Shelly Kagan after all. 他也不是  咱俩都不是雪莱·卡根
Neither is he. Neither of us are Shelly Kagan. 雪莱·卡根已经死了
Shelly Kagan died. 那我究竟还是不是雪莱·卡根呢
So am I Shelly Kagan or am I not Shelly Kagan? 除非我们知道密歇根那个人的情况
Can't tell until we know 否则我们没法下结论
what's going on in Michigan. 这似乎非常非常
Whoa! That seems 难以置信
very, very hard to believe. 我究竟与上周二给大家讲课的那人
Whether I am the same person as the person 是不是同一个人呢
who was lecturing to you on Tuesday 这似乎关系到
presumably should turn on facts about 上周二给大家讲课的那个人的状况
that guy who was lecturing to you on Tuesday, 以及现在周四
and facts about this guy 给大家讲课的这个人的状况
who's lecturing to you today on Thursday, 并且也许还与这两个人
and maybe some facts about 之间的关系  或者说
the relationship between that guy and this guy-- 这两个阶段之间的联系有关
or that stage and this stage, 如果大家愿意这么说的话
if we prefer to talk about it that way. 我们发现要定义两个人究竟是不是同一人
We can see how whether it's the same person or not 要参考两人所处的阶段之间的关系
has to turn on the relations between the stages. 但是怎么会跟密歇根那边的情况
But how could it possibly turn on 有什么相干呢
what's happening in Michigan? 为什么要断定我究竟是不是上周二
How can whether or not I am the same guy 给大家讲课的那个人
as the guy who was lecturing to you on Tuesday 需要参考到
depend on what's happening 宾夕法尼亚或是澳大利亚
in Pennsylvania or Australia 甚至火星上的状况呢
or Mars? 用哲学术语来讲
To use some philosophical jargon, 身份同一性的确认
the nature of identity seems like 似乎应该只建立于
it should depend only on intrinsic facts 我个人的本质特征
about me or perhaps relational facts about 以及我所处的不同阶段之间的状况
the relations between my stages. 但不应建立于外在的
But it shouldn't depend on extrinsic, 发生在别处的外部条件上
external facts about what's happening someplace else. 但是如果我们接受无分支规则
But if we accept the no branching rule, 我们也就接受了
we're saying whether or not we've got identity 身份确认需要依赖于别处的情况
depends on what's happening elsewhere. 根据无分支规则
With the no branching rule, 身份确认便不再只是
identity ceases to be 一个严格的内在问题了
a strictly internal affair. 而是在某种程度上成为了一个外部问题
It becomes, in part, an external affair. 这实在太难以置信了
That's very, very hard to believe. 而且如果你不打算接受这一说法的话
And if you're not prepared to believe it, 看上去你就不得不放弃人格理论了
it looks as though you've got to give up on the personality view. 最后一个想法
Last thought. 经过这一系列对人格理论家提出的问题
During all of these problems for the personality theorist, 肉体理论家们还有肉体理论的信从者们
the body theorist, the fans of the body theorist, 正在旁边幸灾乐祸
is standing there laughing. "你们这些可怜的笨蛋
"Ha! You poor fools. 就为了接受人格理论
Look at all the problems you've got 给自己搞出这么多问题
adopting the personality theory. 又是怎么复制人格
See how easy it is to duplicate personalities, 又是什么莫名其妙的无分支规则
leading to these totally implausible no branching rules. 要是我们都相信肉体理论的话
We can avoid all of that 就没这么多事了"
if we become body theorists." 下一节课我们就来讨论
What we'll ask ourselves next time 肉体理论是不是一个更好的选择
is whether or not the body theorist is in a better situation. 



 Chapter 12: 人格同一性（四）：本质因素何在?


我们先回顾一下
Let me start by reviewing the problem 上周讨论的问题
that we were considering last week. 我们提出了
We were raising a difficulty 人格同一性的人格理论的一个难题
for the personality theory of personal identity 根据人格理论  成为同一个人的关键
according to which the key to being the same person 在于拥有同一个持续不断发展的人格
is having the very same ongoing, evolving personality. 而从根本上来说
And the difficulty was basically 这一难题其实就是有关复制的问题
the problem of duplication. 也就是说  我们  或者说一个人
That it seemed as though we could have more than one-- 似乎可以拥有不止一具肉体
call it an individual--more than one body, 它们皆拥有同样的
that had the very same set of 记忆  信仰等等
memories, beliefs and so forth. 我们得问问自己
And that we have to ask ourselves, "人格理论该对此
"Well, what should the personality theory 做出怎样的解释呢"
say about a case like that?" 想象一下  周末时
So imagine that over the weekend, 那个疯子科学家拷贝了我的
the mad scientist copied my 记忆  信仰  愿望  恐惧
memories, beliefs, desires, fears, 抱负  目标  意图
ambitions, goals, intentions 然后将这些移植到另一个人的大脑里
and imprinted that on somebody else's brain. 一切皆于昨晚午夜完成
They did it last night at midnight. 早晨我们一觉醒来
This morning, we woke up. 问自己
And we have to ask ourselves, "谁是雪莱·卡根
"Who's Shelly Kagan? 谁是上周给你们讲课的那个人"
Who's the person that was lecturing to you last week?" 我们似乎无法
Well, it doesn't seem plausible 依照人格理论确定
in terms of the personality theory to say 那个人就是雪莱·卡根
that he's Shelly Kagan, 就是你们面前的这个人
and the one here today. 假设另有个人在密歇根
Suppose the other one's in Michigan. 如果在密歇根的人才是雪莱·卡根
If the one in Michigan's Shelly Kagan 而眼前的这个不是
but this one's not. 尽管他确实拥有雪莱·卡根的记忆
After all, although it's true that he's got Shelly Kagan's memories, 且醒来后觉得自己正是雪莱·卡根
he woke up thinking he was Shelly Kagan, 就像我醒来觉得自己是雪莱·卡根一样
just like I woke up thinking I was Shelly Kagan. 他起床以后思索
He woke up thinking about 今天课上要讲些什么
what he was going to lecture on in class today, 就如同我起床以后就会考虑
just like I woke up thinking about 今天上课该讲什么一样
what I was going to lecture in class today. 他记得上周上课的内容
He remembered last week's lecture 就如同我记得上周上课的内容一样
just like I remembered last week's lecture. 但是  人格理论
Well, no clear reason to say 并没有明确的理由确认
for the personality theory to say 他是雪莱·卡根  而我不是
that he's Shelly Kagan and I'm not. 毕竟  我与他拥有相同的
After all, I've got the very same set of 记忆  信仰和愿望
memories, beliefs, desires that he has. 同样  更出乎意料的是
But equally true, and more surprisingly, 人格理论也毫无理由说明
from the personality theory point of view, there's no reason to say that 我是雪莱·卡根  而他不是
I'm Shelly Kagan and he's not. 毕竟  他也和我拥有相同的
After all, he's got all the same 记忆  信仰和愿望
memories, beliefs and desires that I do. 此外  我们俩都是
It doesn't seem plausible to say we're both 雪莱·卡根的说法也不成立
Shelly Kagan, 因为这样一来就意味着
because now we'd have to then say 雪莱·卡根同时置身两处
Shelly Kagan's in two places at the same time. 所以答案只可能为
So the only alternative seems to be 我们俩都不是雪莱·卡根
to say that neither of us is Shelly Kagan. 但如果我们俩都不是雪莱·卡根
But if neither of us is Shelly Kagan, 那么最初说的那个人格理论就是错误的
then the simple original personality theory was false. 因为该理论表明
Because according to that theory, 成为雪莱·卡根的关键就是具有他的人格
having the personality is what it took to be Shelly Kagan. 我们俩都具有他的人格
We both have it, 但我俩都不是雪莱·卡根
yet neither of us is Shelly Kagan. 如此以来  人格理论必定是错的
The personality theory must be false. 所以我们将人格理论稍事修正
So we revise the personality theory to say, 判断人格同一性的关键是
the secret to personal identity is 在不存在其他分支的前提下
having the same personality 具有同样的人格
provided that there's no branching. 假设没有分裂
Provided there's no splitting. 只存在唯一的最佳竞争者
Provided there's only one best competitor, 而非两位势均力敌的候选人
not two equally good candidates. 根据无分支原则
Given the no branching view, the no branching rule, 我们可以说  在一般情况下
we can say, in the ordinary case, 其实并没有人
look, there really wasn't anybody 将我的记忆和愿望移植至密歇根
imprinted with my memories and desires in Michigan. 世上只有我一人
I'm the only one around in the earth right now 拥有雪莱·卡根的记忆和愿望
with Shelly Kagan's memories and desires. 因为没有其他竞争者存在
Since there's no competitor, 我独占他的人格
and I've got the personality, 所以我是雪莱·卡根
I'm Shelly Kagan. 我就是
I'm the very same person 上周给你们上课的那个人
that was here lecturing to you last week. 这就是我们在一般情况下
That's what the personality theory it gives us the answer we're looking for 从人格理论得出的答案
in the ordinary case. 但是在科幻故事里
But in the science fiction story 如果出现人格复制
where there's a duplicate, 也就是说  人格出现分支
it says, uh, if there's branching, 那么无分支原则就会说明
the no branching rule comes in. 两者其实都不是雪莱·卡根
Neither of them is Shelly Kagan. 所以  为解决这一难题
All right, so that's the best way for the personality theory 我们必须修正人格理论
to get revised to deal with this problem. 然而困难在于  无分支原则
The trouble was, it seems the no branching rule 似乎和直觉背道而驰
seems very counter-intuitive. 你想想
So think about it. 现在我站在你们面前
Here, right now I'm standing in front of you 说我自己是雪莱·卡根
saying I'm Shelly Kagan, 即上周给你们上课的那个人
the guy who was lecturing to you last week. 我相信我是雪莱·卡根
I believe I'm Shelly Kagan, 我上周给你们上过课
the guy who was lecturing to you last week. 那么我是不是雪莱·卡根呢
Am I Shelly Kagan? 我拥有雪莱·卡根的人格
Well, I've got Shelly Kagan's personality. 到现在为止没什么问题
So far so good. 我们现在要确定的是
Now all we have to decide is, 是否具备无分支原则成立的条件
was the branching rule satisfied or violated? 所以我们必须知道
So all we have to know is, 全宇宙里有没有一个人
is there somebody else somewhere in the universe 拥有我全部的记忆  信仰以及愿望
who's got all my memories and beliefs and desires? 那怎么才能知道呢
Well, how in the world could I know that? 这个在你们面前讲课的我
Whether I, this person talking to you right now, 是不是雪莱·卡根
is Shelly Kagan 取决于密歇根是否存在一个
depends on whether there's some duplicate 拥有我所有记忆的复制品
with all my memories in Michigan or not? 这听上去太有悖直觉了
It seems very counter-intuitive. 所以  尽管附带无分支原则的
So although the personality with no branching rule 人格理论避免了复制这一问题
avoids the problem of what to say about duplicates, 表示如果出现分支
by saying when there's branching, 那么他们就都不是雪莱·卡根
neither of them is Shelly Kagan, 但分支原则本身却是极其有悖直觉的
the branching rule itself seems very counter-intuitive. 人们判断一个人是不是我
We feel as though whether somebody is me or not 应该依据
should depend upon internal facts 我在不同阶段的内部事实来判断
about me in the earlier stages or this stage and that stage, 而不应根据别处  比如说外部
not about what's happening elsewhere, outside, 发生的事情来判断
extrinsic to these things. 所以  如果你不愿接受无分支原则
So, if you're not willing to accept the no branching rule, 如果你觉得它像是一条
if it strikes you as a bizarre thing 强加在人格同一性上的怪诞原则
to throw in to personal identity, 也许你就得放弃人格理论了
maybe you need to reject the personality theory. 在此过程中
Now during all of this, 肉体理论的拥趸则绽放出会意的笑容
the fans of the body view typically are laughing. 他们认为这足以显现
They say this just goes to show 人格理论之愚拙
what a dumb theory the personality theory is. 人格理论的整个问题在于
The whole problem with the personality theory is that 人格就好比软件
personality is a bit like a software. 类似于程序
It's like programs. 在你这台计算机上可以运行各种程序
It's the various programs you run on your computer 可以在硬盘上
along with the various data files 存储各式数据  如此这般
that you have saved on your hard drive, and so forth. 这些皆可以被复制
And those can be duplicated. 你可以不断拷贝下去
You have copy after copy after copy. 你可以拷贝两份我的人格
You can have two copies of my personality. 也可以拷贝成百上千份
You could have 100 or 1,000. 之所以能够向人格理论
The problem with--what drove the personality theory 引入难以置信的无分支原则
into the no branching rule, implausible as it may be, 其原因在于人格像软件一样能够被复制
was the fact that your personality is like software, and it can be copied. 所以他们就说
That's why, they say, 我们应该相信肉体理论
we should believe in the body view. 如果我们接受肉体理论
If we accept the body view, 我们就避免了复制这一问题
we avoid the duplication problem. 因为肉体不同于软件
Because, unlike software, 软件可以随心所欲地拷贝复制多次
which can be literally copied, as many as you want identical, 然而肉体却无法分裂
the body can't split. 人类的肉体无法分裂  也不能产生分支
Human bodies can't divide or branch. 肉体绝不可能
There's no way that there's another body, 在某个周四一分为二
that the body on Thursday became two bodies. 周四的肉体
The body that was here on Thursday 没有也不可能分裂为两个肉体
didn't, couldn't become two bodies. 如此一来  我们便避免了这整个问题
So we avoid all the problem. 以上即为肉体理论的拥趸
That's at least the kind of claim that 面对人格理论难题时
fans of the body view often make 采用的一惯说法
in the face of this difficulty for the personality theory. 现在我们要问  确实是这样吗
Well, now we need to ask, is it really true? 肉体理论真的不存在复制问题吗
Is it really true that bodies don't face a duplication problem? 人类肉体真的不会也不能分裂吗
Is it really true that human bodies don't and couldn't split? 注意  这里的关键词是"不能"
Look, the crucial word here is, of course, "Couldn't." 人格实际上也没有分裂  对吧
Personalities don't actually split either, right? 尽管在我列举的科幻小说一例中
Although I've been giving science fiction examples 那个疯子科学家复制了我的
in which the mad scientist duplicates my 记忆  信仰和愿望
memories and beliefs and desires, 但那都仅仅是科幻小说里的情节
they've all been science fiction examples. 如果我可以利用科幻小说
If I can use science fiction 探讨人格分裂的可能性
to talk about the possibility of splitting, 并对人格理论进行反驳
and use that against the personality theory, 那么我也可以假借科幻小说的例子
I'm entitled to use science fiction examples 来谈论肉体分裂的可能性
to talk about the possibility of bodies splitting, 然后问  这会给肉体理论
and ask, what kind of problem 带来什么问题
that would raise for the body theory? 现在大家都已经知道
Now, we are familiar with some 低等生物的肉体会分裂
low-level examples of bodies splitting. 比如变形虫分裂生殖  对吗
Amoebas split, right? 这里有一个变形虫
You've got a single amoeba. 它不断分裂  在某一点上
It's going along. At a certain point. 我们来画一个变形虫分裂的图
Let's draw our amoeba splitting, right? 变形虫在分裂  不断地分裂
You've got an amoeba split, going along. 在某一点上  开始变成这样
At a certain point, it starts to look like that. 然后变成这样  然后砰的一下
Then it looks like that. And then boom! 它就这样分裂了
You've got, well, it splits. 从生物学本身来讲
There's nothing in biology per se 没有事物会阻止细胞分裂
that rules out cell division. 反而言之  细胞可以分裂
Indeed, on the contrary, right? We know cells can split. 而人类肉体有别于变形虫  其不能分裂
Now, human bodies, unlike amoebas, don't do that. 但也许在生物学上
But maybe there's nothing in biology 并没有东西阻止这种可能性
that rules out the possibility. 假设我们明天打开《耶鲁日报》
Suppose we open up the Yale Daily tomorrow 看到耶鲁变形虫研究中心
and we see that the Yale Center for Amoebic Studies 取得了突破性进展
has made this tremendous breakthrough 发现通过
and has discovered how to, 某种注射或是什么其他方法
through the right kind of injection or whatever, 可以让人类肉体
cause a human body to 以类似变形虫的方式分裂和复制
replicate and split in an amoeba-like fashion. 那时我们就不得不面对
Well, then we have to face the problem of 肉体分裂这一问题了
what to say in this case of bodily branching. 与其深究此例
Well, instead of pursuing that example, 不如让我再举个稍稍不同的例子
let me give you a slightly different example 该例曾在哲学文献上
that's been discussed a fair bit 受到热烈的讨论
in the philosophical literature. 它其实
This is actually a case that 曾被某同学当堂提问过
one of the students in the class asked about, 如果不是更早  我记得也许就是上周吧
I think it was last week, if it wasn't even earlier. 我当时说  好问题  我们会讲到它
And I said, "Great question. Let's come back to it." 现在  终于到我
So here, at long last, 兑现承诺的时候了
I'm making good on my promissory note. 我打算从以前曾提到的例子讲起
I'm going to come back to the example that was raised before. 回想一下  当我们讲肉体理论时
You'll recall that when we talked about the body view, 我说过肉体理论的最佳版本
I said the best version of the body view 并非需要整个肉体
doesn't require the entire body, 而只是将大脑作为判断同一个人的标准
to be the same body, but the brain. 以大脑为衡量尺度
Follow the brain. 而且实际上
And indeed, it doesn't seem as though 我们也无须整个大脑
we have to require the entire brain, 只要部分即可
just enough of the brain, however much that turns out, 足够安置人格  记忆等就行
to house personality, memories and so forth. 然后我说  假定
And then, I said, suppose it was possible 一边的大脑半球就能满足要求
that one hemisphere of your brain is enough. 如果大脑有足够的冗余
If there's enough redundancy in the brain 即使你大脑右半球遭到破坏
so that even if your right hemisphere got destroyed, 你大脑的左半球
your left hemisphere, 也依然保存了你全部的记忆
you still have all the same memories, 愿望和信仰
desires, beliefs. 这就够了
Good enough. 我们来关注以下问题
So now we worry about the following case. 我曾给你们举过很多例子
So I gave you a bunch of examples, right, 比如大脑移植
where there are brains being transplanted 到其他人的躯体上
into torsos of others. 假设  非常糟糕
So suppose, gruesome as it was, 这个周末我遇到一场可怕的事故
this weekend I'm in some horrible accident 我的躯体毁掉了
and my torso gets destroyed 他们把我大脑放进生命维持系统
and they keep my brain on life support, 不断供氧
oxygenating it just long enough 随即完成了一次彻底的外科手术
to do some radical surgery 把它移植到了一具备用躯体上
into some spare torsos. 备用躯体从哪儿来
Where'd the torsos come from? 有人
Well, you had some living people, 得了极其罕见的脑部疾病
but they had very rare brain diseases 他们的大脑突然之间溶解了
and their brain suddenly liquefied. 于是我们就有了备用躯体
So now we've got some spare torsos. 好了  现在这里是雪莱·卡根
All right, so here we've got Shelly Kagan. 他的躯体毁灭了
His body gets destroyed. 这是我的大脑
And here's my brain. 这边这个是琼斯的躯体
Over here we've got Jones' torso. 这个是史密斯的躯体
And over here we've got Smith's torso. 假定我们把
Suppose we take, 这部分叫左半球
call this one the left hemisphere, 我们把它放在这里
and we stick it in here, 放在乔恩的躯体里
into Jones' torso. 我们把另一个半球  右半球
We take this other hemisphere, the right half of my brain 放在史密斯的躯体里
and we stick it into Smith's torso. 我们连好了各种血管  神经
We connect all the wires, all the neurons. 手术非常成功  两个人都醒来了
The operation's a smashing success. Both things wake up. 这里是琼斯的躯体
So here's Jones' torso 加上雪莱·卡根的左脑
with the left half of SK's brain. 史密斯的躯体加上雪莱·卡根的右脑
Smith's torso with the right half of SK's brain. 他们醒来了
They wake up. 我们得给他们起个名字
We need some way to refer to these people, 以方便我们区分二者
so we can start talking about who they are. 我们叫上面这个人
Let me just call this top one 琼斯的躯体加上雪莱·卡根左脑
Jones' torso with the left half of Shelly Kagan's brain 我们叫他阿左
let's call him Lefty. 史密斯的躯体加上雪莱·卡根右脑
Smith's torso with the right half of Shelly Kagan's brain, 我们叫他阿右
let's call him Righty. 好了  手术很成功
Okay, operation's a success. 阿左阿右都醒来了
Lefty and Righty both wake up. 他们都认为自己是雪莱·卡根
They both think they're Shelly Kagan, 如此这般
and so forth and so on. 然后我们问自己  根据肉体理论
And we ask ourselves, according to the body view, 到底哪个人才是雪莱·卡根
which one is Shelly Kagan? 都有哪些可能性呢
What are the possibilities? 我们可以说阿左是雪莱·卡根
We could say Lefty is Shelly Kagan 而阿右不是
and Righty is not. 阿右是假冒的
Righty's an imposter. 但是肉体理论
But there's nothing in the body view 并没有让我们做这样的选择
to give us a reason to make that choice. 阿左确实有一半雪莱·卡根的大脑
It's true that Lefty's got half of Shelly Kagan's brain 而且挺够用
and that's good enough. 然而同样
But it's also true that 阿右也有一半雪莱·卡根的大脑
Righty's got half of Shelly Kagan's brain 看上去也够用了
and that seems good enough. 所以没有理由说
So there's no reason to say that 阿左是雪莱·卡根  而阿右不是
Lefty is Shelly Kagan and Righty isn't. 类似地
And similarly, of course, 肉体理论也不是说
there's nothing in the body view to make us say that 阿右是雪莱·卡根  而阿左不是
Righty is Shelly Kagan and Lefty isn't. 这也不是那也不是
Well, if it's not one, and not the other, 还有哪几种可能呢
what are the remaining possibilities? 我猜大家会说他们都是雪莱·卡根
We could, I suppose, try to say they're both Shelly Kagan. 这样雪莱·卡根活下来了
And so Shelly Kagan continues, 也就是说他的肉体活下来了
that is to say his body continues, 即  他的大脑活下来了
that is to say his brain continues, 也就是说
that is to say 他大脑足够安置人格的那部分活下来了
enough of his brain continues, 快乐地存活下来
merrily on its way, 只不过它现在在两个地方存活着
except now in two places. 所以从现在开始
And so from now on, 雪莱·卡根这个人
Shelly Kagan, that single person, 同时处于两个地方
is in two different places at the same time. 阿左去了加利福尼亚
Lefty goes to California. 阿右去了佛蒙特
Righty moves to Vermont. 于是  雪莱·卡根同时生活在东西海岸
From now on, Shelly Kagan's bicoastal. 这听起来不太对
It doesn't seem right. 那么肉体理论还有什么其它说法呢
So what else can the body theory say? 肉体理论可以说
Well, the body theory could say 他们俩都不是雪莱·卡根
neither of them are Shelly Kagan. 雪莱·卡根已经在那场可怕的事故中死了
Shelly Kagan died in that gruesome, horrible accident. 虽然我们现在
Although it's true that we now 有了两个人  阿左和阿右
have two people, Lefty and Righty, 他们各有雪莱·卡根的半个大脑
each of whom has half of Shelly Kagan's brain, 以及雪莱·卡根的全部记忆
and all of Shelly Kagan's memories, 无论该记忆多么有纪念意义
for whatever that's worth, 他们都不是雪莱·卡根
neither of them is Shelly Kagan. 我们可以这么说
We could say that as well. 但我们要是这么说
But if we--and that seems 这种说法似乎最讨巧
the least unpalatable of the alternatives. 但我们要是这么说的话
But if we say that, 那我们就得放弃肉体理论了
then we've given up on the body view. 因为肉体理论认为
Because the body view, after all, 要成为雪莱·卡根
said to be Shelly Kagan is to have 就得拥有足够的雪莱·卡根的大脑
enough of Shelly Kagan's brain. 在这个例子中  阿左和阿右看起来
And in this case, both of Lefty and Righty seem to have 同时具有雪莱·卡根大脑的足够部分
enough of Shelly Kagan's brain. 那肉体理论者如何解释呢
What's the body theorist to do? 在我看来  不出意外  肉体理论者
As far as I can see, the best option for the body theorist 对这个问题的最佳处理方式
at this point is to add--no surprises here 便是加上一条无分支原则
a no branching rule. 肉体理论者会说
The body theorist should say, "判断是否是同一个人的关键在于
"The key to personal identity is 是否拥有同一个肉体  即
having the same body, to wit, 拥有同一个大脑  即
the same brain, to wit, 拥有足够保存人格的大脑部分
enough of the brain to keep the personality going 并且不存在分支  也没有分裂
provided that there's no branching, no splitting, 没有竞争者  只有一个人"
no perfect competitors, only one." 如果肉体理论结合了无分支原则
If the body view adds the no branching principle, 那么我们可以说
then we can say, 在这种类型的分裂中
look, in the case of this sort of splitting 此例
this example is known 在哲学文献中被称为裂变
in theto philosophical literature as fission, 好比核裂变时一个大原子分裂成俩
like nuclear fission when a big atom splits into two. 所以  在这个裂变例子中
So, in the fission case, 肉体理论者的观点是
the body says, the body theorist says, 在裂变情况下  发生分裂  出现分支
in the fission case, there's splitting, there's branching. 所以他们最终都不是雪莱·卡根
So neither of them is going to end up being Shelly Kagan. 但在一般情况下  这里有我的肉体
But in the ordinary humdrum case, here I am, my body. 为什么我是雪莱·卡根
Why am I Shelly Kagan? 因为在你们面前的大脑  你们看不见它
Because the brain in front of you--you can't see it, 但是确实在你们面前
but it's in front of you--the brain in front of you 和上周四在你们面前的大脑
is the very same brain as the brain 是同一个大脑
that you had in front of you on Thursday. 肉体同一  大脑同一  人才能同一
Follow the body, in particular follow the brain. 所以在一般情况下
So in the ordinary case, 不存在分裂  仅需以大脑作为判断标准
no splitting, follow the brain. 而在发生分裂的特殊情形下
In the special case where there's splitting, 即使根据大脑判断  也得不出结论
even if you follow the brain, not good enough. 所以  肉体理论者
So the body theorist 要想回避裂变问题
can avoid the problem of fission, 回避复制问题
avoid the problem of duplication 就需要加入无分支原则
by adding the no branching rule. 不过无分支原则看上去的确不合直觉
But of course, the no branching rule didn't seem very intuitive. 判断我是不是雪莱·卡根
Whether or not I'm Shelly Kagan, 是不是那个上周四给你们上课的人
the guy that was lecturing to you on Thursday, 取决于  反正我想象不出
depends on whether, unbeknownst to me, 周末时
over the weekend, 是否有人移除我一半的大脑
somebody removed half of my brain, 并随即把它塞到另一个人的躯体上
stuck it in some other torso, 再把我缝好
sealed me all back up. 这跟判断我的同一性有什么关系
How could that matter? 如果认为无分支原则毫无道理
Well, if you don't find the no branching rule plausible, 作为肉体理论者的你可就遇到麻烦了
you're in trouble as a body theorist. 事实上  我们发现
In fact, so what we see is, 肉体理论也碰到了同样的问题
the body theory is in exactly the same problem, 和人格理论处于同样的困境中
exactly the same situation, as the personality theory. 其实  裂变是人格理论里
Indeed, the fission example is a very nice case of 用来说明人格如何分裂的好例子
how you could have splitting for the personality theory. 事故发生前
Here, before the accident, 这人是雪莱·卡根  他拥有我的
was Shelly Kagan, somebody who had my 信仰  愿望  记忆  目标等等
beliefs, desires, memories, goals, and so forth. 事故之后
After the accident, 变成了两个人  即阿左和阿右
we've got two people, Lefty and Righty, 或者说变成两个实体  即阿左和阿右
or two entities, Lefty and Righty, 他们都具有雪莱·卡根的
both of whom have Shelly Kagan's 记忆  信仰  愿望  目标等等
memories, beliefs, desires, goals, and so forth. 大脑的分裂表明了
Splitting the brain shows how you could, 你将如何分裂人格
in fact, have splitting of personality. 所以同一个例子在肉体理论和
So the very same case raises the very same problem 人格理论里引发了同样的问题
for both the body view and the personality view. 我唯一能想到的解决办法
And the only solution that I can see, 至少在我看来是最佳解决办法
at least the best solution that I can see, 便是接受无分支原则
is to accept the no branching rule. 如果你不愿接受无分支原则
If you don't like the no branching rule, 那么你的选择就不明了
it's not clear what your alternatives are. 或者说  你的选择是很明了
Or at least, it is clear what your alternatives are; 但却无法比较出孰优孰劣
it's not clear which alternative would be any better. 在此过程中
Now during all of this 人格理论的问题
problems for the personality theory, 肉体理论的问题  在整个过程中
problems for the body view--during all of this, 灵魂理论者有了一施拳脚的机会
the soul theorist is having a field day. 灵魂理论者说
The soul theorist is saying, "看啊  你们这些人走进
"Look you guys, you got into all this trouble 分裂的麻烦中  如何如何
with splitting and so forth and so on, 还需要引入一个愚蠢至极
and needing to add the no branching rule, 且异常牵强的无分支原则
silly and implausible as that seems, 你们陷入这一困境
you got into all that trouble 皆因分裂问题
because of the problem of splitting 因为人格可以分裂  肉体可以分裂
because personalities can be split, bodies can be split. 如果你能感受到人格同一性的
If only you had seen the light 灵魂理论的光芒并对它深信不疑
and stuck to the soul theory of personal identity, 那一切就都解决了"
all these problems could be avoided." 可是  如你们所知  我并不相信灵魂
Now, as you know, I don't believe in souls. 但我们可以暂时先忽略这点
But forget that issue for the moment. 先来问个问题
Let's just ask the question, "如果灵魂存在的话
"Is it true that the soul theory 灵魂理论
if only there were soul 在这些问题上
is it true that the soul theory would at least 真能更有优势吗
have the following advantage? 它能避免复制问题和裂变问题吗"
It avoids these problems of duplication and fission." 我们先问一下
Well let's ask. 灵魂理论者会如何
What should a soul theorist say 解释裂变的例子
about the fission case? 现在发生了可怕的事故
So here's the gruesome accident. 我的大脑分裂开来
My brain gets split apart. 一部分放在了琼斯的躯体里
One part gets put into Jones' torso. 一部分放在了史密斯的躯体里
One part gets put into Smith's torso. 手术后
After the operation, 阿左醒来以为自己是雪莱·卡根
Lefty wakes up thinking he's Shelly Kagan. 史密斯醒来也以为自己是雪莱·卡根
Smith wakes up thinking he's Shelly Kagan. 阿左拥有雪莱·卡根的一部分大脑
Lefty's got part of Shelly Kagan's brain. 阿右也拥有雪莱·卡根的一部分大脑
Smith's, or rather Righty's got part of Shelly Kagan's brain. 灵魂理论者会如何
What should the soul theorist say 解释裂变的例子
about the case of fission? 回忆一下  灵魂理论说
Well, again, remember, the soul theory says 成为同一个人的关键在于拥有同一个灵魂
the key to being the same person is having the soul. 为什么我是
Why am I the person 上周四给你们讲课的人
that was lecturing to you on Thursday? 因为支配这个肉体的灵魂同一
Because it's the very same soul animating my body, or what have you. 那么  灵魂论者会如何
So, what does the soul theorist say 解释裂变的例子呢
about the fission case? 我也不是很清楚
I'm not quite sure, 因为我们会遇到一个形而上学的问题
because we have to turn to a metaphysical question 我们以前也遇到过它
that we've touched upon before, 那就是  灵魂可以分裂吗
namely, can souls split? 毕竟  人格理论
After all, the problem that fission raises 需要探讨的裂变问题
for the personality theory, 一言以蔽之  即在于人格可以分裂
in a nutshell, is that personalities can split, 它可以产生分支
they can branch. 而裂变问题给肉体理论造成的麻烦
The problem for the body view that fission raises, 简单来说  也就是肉体能分裂
in a nutshell, is that bodies can split. 能产生分支
They can branch. 我们需要从形而上学的角度来讨论
We need to ask about the metaphysics of the soul, 灵魂到底能不能分裂
can souls split? 当然了  我并不知道答案
And I don't know the answer to that, of course. 所以我们先全面考虑存在的两种可能情形
So let's consider both possibilities. 第一种可能
Possibility number one. 灵魂和肉体还有人格一样是可以分裂的
Souls, just like bodies, just like personalities, can split. 假设
Suppose that's what happened. 这里有一个灵魂  雪莱·卡根的灵魂
So, there was a single soul here, Shelly Kagan's soul, 但是在这个可怕的手术中
but in the middle of this gruesome operation, 可怕事故发生之后的
gruesome accident and followed 可怕手术中
by this amazing operation, 雪莱·卡根的灵魂分裂了
Shelly Kagan's soul split. 所以这里有了一个雪莱·卡根的灵魂
So there's one of the SK souls over here 这里也有了一个雪莱·卡根的灵魂
and there's one of the SK souls in the other case as well. 阿左和阿右
Each one of Lefty and Righty 各有了一部分
has one of the pieces 雪莱·卡根分裂的灵魂
of the split Shelly Kagan soul. 好了  现在我们问自己
All right, so now we ask ourselves, "根据灵魂理论  哪个是雪莱·卡根"
"According to the soul theory, which one is Shelly Kagan?" 现在你自己
Well, you--by this point, 你自己就可以分析各种可能性了
you can run through all the possibilities yourself, right? 我们可以说  阿左是而阿右不是
We could say, well, it's Lefty and not Righty. 但灵魂理论并没有
But there's nothing in the soul theory 支持这种说法
that supports that claim. 他们两个都具有同样完整的
They each have an equally good 不管完整到何种程度
however good it may be 他们都具有同样完整的
they've got an equally good piece 雪莱·卡根原始灵魂的一部分
of the original Shelly Kagan soul. 所以没有理由说
So there's no reason to say that 阿左是雪莱·卡根  而阿右不是
Lefty is Shelly Kagan and Righty isn't. 也没有理由说
There's no good reason to say 阿右是雪莱·卡根  而阿左不是
Righty is Shelly Kagan and Lefty isn't. 那说他俩都是雪莱·卡根如何
Well, would it be better to say they're both Shelly Kagan, 只要你拥有了一部分雪莱·卡根的灵魂
as long as you've got a piece of Shelly Kagan's soul, 一部分原始灵魂  你就是雪莱·卡根了
of the original soul, then you just are Shelly Kagan? 这种情况下
In which case, 阿左和阿右都是雪莱·卡根
Lefty and Righty are both Shelly Kagan, 而且雪莱·卡根同时在东西海岸
and Shelly Kagan is now bicoastal, 一个在加利福尼亚  一个在佛蒙特
one in California, one in Vermont, 都作为他的一部分
one part of him? 这种说法似乎不足以令人信服
That doesn't seem very satisfying. 还有什么其他的选择呢
What's the alternative? 对于灵魂理论者来讲  似乎便是
The alternative, it seems, for the soul theorist, is to say, 他俩都不是雪莱·卡根
neither of them is Shelly Kagan. 他俩都不是雪莱·卡根
Neither of them is Shelly Kagan, 那雪莱·卡根就死了
then Shelly Kagan died. 但如果我们接受灵魂理论
But how can we say that 我们又怎能得出此种结论呢
if we accept the soul theory? 他们都拥有一部分雪莱·卡根的灵魂
They both have pieces of Shelly Kagan's soul. 灵魂分裂了
The soul split. 看来灵魂理论者需要
Well, maybe what the soul theorist would have to do 在这一点上接受无分支原则了
at this point is accept the--da-ta-da--the no branching rule. 灵魂论者会说
"Ah," Says the soul theorist, "灵魂是关键  除非灵魂分裂
"Follow the soul--unless the soul splits, 只有这种情形下他们才都不是雪莱·卡根"
in which case neither of them is Shelly Kagan." 问题在于
Well, the trouble is, 我们发现无分支原则并没什么说服力
we didn't find the no branching rule very plausible. 它看上去似乎与直觉背道而驰
It seemed counterintuitive. 但现在  你就会开始想
But at this point, you begin to wonder, 也许我们必须接受它
maybe we just need to learn to live with it. 如果人格理论需要无分支原则
If the personality theory needs the no branching rule, 肉体理论需要无分支原则
and the body theory needs the no branching rule, 灵魂理论也需要无分支原则
and the soul theory needs the no branching rule, 似乎我们被无分支原则缠住了
maybe we're just stuck with the no branching rule, 不管我们愿不愿意接受
whether or not we like it. 一旦我们肯定其成立
And if we're stuck with it, 它当然就不会妨碍
then of course it's not an objection against 任何一个包含它的理论了
any one of the theories that uses it. 这就是我们站在灵魂理论者的角度
Well, this is all what we would say as soul theorists 从灵魂可以分裂的前提下得出的结论
if we think souls can split. 但是我们也要考虑
But we need to consider the possibility 灵魂不能分裂的情形
that souls can't split. 可能灵魂理论者还有其他的选择
Maybe the soul theorist has an alternative available to it that 当其他理论行不通时的专门选择
available to him that the other theories don't have. 假设雪莱·卡根的灵魂
Suppose Shelly Kagan's soul 不能分裂
cannot split. 这说明什么呢
What does that mean? 说明当我的大脑分裂时
It means, when my brain gets split, 我的灵魂会完全转移到
my soul is going to end up 阿左或者阿右体内
in Lefty or in Righty, 但不是同时一转多
but not in both. 如果灵魂不能分裂
If a soul can't split, 最后不可能出现
you can't end up with 一人有部分灵魂而另一个则坐拥残存部分
pieces of the soul or the remnants of the soul in both. 灵魂是一个统一的单一物
The soul is a unified simple thing. 我无法确定
Now, I don't actually know 单一的事物是否就不能分裂
whether it's true that simple things can't split. 从形而上学的角度  我不确定
Metaphysically, I'm not sure 是否存有这种可能性
whether that's a possibility or not. 但让我们想象一下
But let's just suppose 柏拉图曾经论证过灵魂是单一的
look, Plato argued the soul was simple. 他其实并没能彻底说服我
He didn't actually convince me of that, 但还是让我们假定灵魂是单一的
but suppose we thought souls are simple, 并且单一的东西不能分裂
and we think simple things can't split. 那么
It would follow, 不能分裂的灵魂则成为同一性的判断标准
then, that souls can't split. 假定我们接受所有这些形而上学的结论
Suppose we accept all that metaphysics. 那么问题最终转化为"谁是雪莱·卡根"
Then the question is just, "Which one is Shelly Kagan?" 这取决于最后究竟是谁
Well, it depends which one ended up 拥有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
with Shelly Kagan's soul. 我们不能说  他们都拥有部分灵魂
We can't say, they both have a piece. 其中一个有  另一个则没有
One of them will have it, the other one won't. 想知道哪个人是雪莱·卡根吗
And you want to know which one's Shelly Kagan? 谁是雪莱·卡根灵魂的最终拥有者
The one that actually ends up with Shelly Kagan's soul. 如果阿左最终拥有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
If Lefty ends up with Shelly Kagan's soul, 那么阿左是雪莱·卡根  而阿右不是
then Lefty is Shelly Kagan and Righty is an imposter. 阿右以为自己是雪莱·卡根  其实不然
He thinks he's Shelly Kagan, but he's not, 因为他没有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
because he doesn't have Shelly Kagan's soul. 而阿左有
Lefty has it. 如果阿右具有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
If Righty's got Shelly Kagan's soul, 那么阿右是雪莱·卡根  而阿左不是
then Righty is Shelly Kagan and Lefty is the imposter. 现在  从外部看来
Now, looking at the situation from the outside, 我们无法断定
we might be unable to tell 谁是真正的雪莱·卡根
which one is really Shelly Kagan. 因为我们无法
Because we won't be able to tell, 从外部的角度辨别
looking at it from the outside, 谁真正拥有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
which one really has Shelly Kagan's soul. 尽管谁是雪莱·卡根
Although it will be true, whichever one really does have 取决于谁有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
Shelly Kagan's soul is Shelly Kagan. 但我们不知道谁是灵魂的拥有者
But we don't know which one that is. 叫人哑然失笑的是
Interestingly, and somewhat more surprisingly, 从内部观察
looking at it from the inside, 我们也同样无法分辨
we won't be able to tell either. 阿左会说
Lefty will say, "省省吧  我当然是雪莱·卡根了
"Give me a break. Of course I'm Shelly Kagan. 我当然拥有雪莱·卡根的灵魂了
Of course I've got Shelly Kagan's soul. 我当然就是他了"
Of course I'm the one." 但阿右同样会说
But Righty will also say, "得了吧  我才是雪莱·卡根
"Give me a break. Of course I'm Shelly Kagan. 肯定是我拥有雪莱·卡根的灵魂了
Of course I've got Shelly Kagan's soul. 我才是他"
Of course I'm the one." 如果灵魂不能分裂
If souls can't split, 他们中肯定有一人错了
one of them is mistaken. 但是他们没有办法辨明
But there's no way for them to know 到底谁是假冒的
which one is the one that's deceived. 不过  这个问题也许
Now, that may not be a problem 能为你们所接受
that you're unwilling to swallow. 如我们所见  所有理论
As we've seen, all the views here 都有对应的难题
have their difficulties. 也许你们已经准备好接受这个难题了
Maybe that's the difficulty you're prepared to accept. 裂变发生时如何判断
What's the right answer in fission? 答案是  看谁拥有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
It depends on who's got Shelly Kagan's soul. 这没法确定
No way to tell. 但它依然是
But still, that's the answer 那个形而上学问题的答案  请问
to the metaphysical question. Question? 刚才的问题是
The question was, "如果这两个人都没有
"What if neither of these 雪莱·卡根的灵魂又会如何"
have Shelly Kagan's soul?" 那么他们都是冒充的
Then they're both imposters. 这有点像我们先前开始谈论灵魂理论时
That's a little bit like the case we worried about 研究的一个问题  对吗
when we started thinking about the soul view, right? "如果上帝昨晚毁掉我的灵魂
"What if last night God destroyed my soul 然后植入一个新灵魂会如何"
and put in a new soul?" 雪莱·卡根就死了
Then Shelly Kagan died. 如果雪莱·卡根的灵魂
If Shelly Kagan's soul 没有转移到阿左或者阿右那里
does not migrate to Lefty or Righty, 那么他们就都不是雪莱·卡根
neither of them is Shelly Kagan, 这就是灵魂理论的结论
according to the soul theory. 但是雪莱·卡根到底怎么样了
What happened to Shelly Kagan? 如果他的灵魂毁灭了
Well, if the soul got destroyed, 那雪莱·卡根就死了
Shelly Kagan died. 如果他的灵魂没毁灭
If the soul didn't get destroyed, 那么可能在我们视线之外的一个人
maybe somebody else that we weren't even looking at 便是雪莱·卡根
is Shelly Kagan. 就像我说的  灵魂理论至少
So as I say, the soul theory can at least 可以让我们
give us an answer 在回避无分支原则的情况下得到一个结论
that avoids the no branching rule. 如果灵魂是单一的
If souls are simples 并且单一的东西不能分裂
and simples can't split, 那么就不可能
there's no possibility 有两个人同时拥有一个相关联的灵魂
of having two things with a relevant soul. 这样我们就不用特地附上
So we don't need to add, 这个无分支原则了
in this ad hoc fashion, the no branching rule. 这便是灵魂理论的优势
That's an advantage for the soul theory, 我们只要相信灵魂存在即可
if only we believed in souls. 这是它的优势所在
It is an advantage. 但我要指出
But I need to point out that 裂变问题对灵魂理论
there's another disadvantage that the fission case raises 也有妨碍之处
for the soul theory. 我们形而上学地假设一下
So let's just suppose that 上帝告诉我们
metaphysically God tells us 阿左拥有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
that it's Lefty that has Shelly Kagan's soul. 那么阿左当然就是雪莱·卡根了
Then of course it's Lefty that is Shelly Kagan. 阿右是假冒的
Righty is an imposter. 阿右相信他自己是雪莱·卡根
Righty believes he's Shelly Kagan, 他有雪莱·卡根全部的记忆
he has all the memories of Shelly Kagan, 雪莱·卡根所有的愿望
all the desires of Shelly Kagan, 但他并不是雪莱·卡根
but he's not Shelly Kagan 因为他没有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
because he doesn't have Shelly Kagan's soul. 而阿左却拥有这个灵魂
Lefty happens to have it. 这就是对裂变问题的巧妙回答
That's a nice answer to the problem of fission, 但要注意这也引出了我们最先论证
but notice the problem it raises for the argument 是否相信灵魂存在所提出的那个问题
for believing in a soul in the first place. 回想一下  学期伊始我们曾提出
Way back at the start of the semester when we asked, "为什么要相信灵魂存在"
"Why believe in souls?" 一个重要论点是
One important argument was, 或者说一系列论点是
or really family of arguments was, 我们必须相信灵魂
you need to believe in souls 由此我们才能解释肉体为什么活力四溢
in order to explain why bodies are animated, 人为什么有理性
why people are rational, 人为何具有人格
how they can have personalities, 人为什么有创造力  等等
how they can be creative, and so forth. 为了解释意识以及自我意识
In order to explain consciousness and self-awareness. 随便是什么  就像做填空题一样
Whatever it was, fill in your favorite blank, 按照你的喜好填上就行
fill in the blank in your favorite way. 即是说  为了便于解释
The claim was, you needed to believe in souls 我们需要相信灵魂
in order to explain all that. 如果这一说法正确
But if that's right, 那么阿右这边发生了什么事呢
what's going on in Righty's case? 阿右有自我意识  他有意识
Righty is aware. Righty is conscious. 阿右有创造力  阿右有自由意志
Righty is creative. Righty has free will. 阿右制定计划  阿右拥有人格
Righty makes plans. Righty's got personality. 阿右有理性  阿右的肉体充满活力
Righty is rational. Righty's body is animated. 根据灵魂理论对灵魂的论证
According to the soul-theory argument for soul, 更准确地说是根据对灵魂的论证
rather, according to the argument for souls, 你需要相信灵魂
you needed to believe in souls 以此才能解释为什么会存在这么一个人
in order to explain how you could have a person. 但现在阿右是个没有灵魂的人
But now Righty's a person without a soul, 因为我们刚刚假设
because we just hypothesized, 雪莱·卡根的灵魂在上边这儿
oh, Shelly Kagan's soul's up there. 所以  一方面
So at the very same moment 关于灵魂不能分裂的假定
that positing the nonsplitting of souls 似乎解决了裂变造成的复制问题
seems to solve the fission problem of duplication, 但却它拽走了灵魂理论者脚下的地毯
it yanks the rug out from underneath the soul theorist 它对我们最初这种
by undermining one of the types of arguments 相信灵魂的论证形成了妨碍
for believing in the soul in the first place. 就是说  如果阿右是一个人的话
After all, if Righty can be a person, 显然肯定不是雪莱·卡根
admittedly not Shelly Kagan, 但他是一个有意识  有创造力
but a person--conscious, creative, 有理性  有自我意识的人
rational, so forth, aware-- 只是没有灵魂
without a soul, 这种情形也可能在我们身上发生
then maybe the same thing is true for us, 这正是物理主义者的观点
which is of course what the physicalist says. 我想再提出另一种可能
Let me mention one other possibility, 因为它非常有意思
because it's quite intriguing. 假定灵魂论者如此
Suppose the soul theorist answers 反驳刚才的诘问
that last objection by saying, "这一切都不会发生"
"Ain't ever going to happen." 如果阿右醒来却没有灵魂
Yeah, it would be a problem for believing in souls 那么相信灵魂存在就会出问题
if Righty could wake up without one. 我们已经确定
But since we stipulated that 雪莱·卡根的灵魂会转移给阿左
Shelly Kagan's soul is going to end up in Lefty, 那么阿右就不会醒来
Righty is not going to wake up. 或者是  阿右醒来
Alternatively, it might have been that Righty woke up, 而阿左没有醒来
but Lefty doesn't wake up, 手术后没能活下来
doesn't survive the operation. 假设我们一直在做这种大脑移植手术
Suppose we did these sort of brain transfers all the time 那么事态就会如此发展
and the following thing always happened. 移植整个大脑后  病人醒来
Transfer the entire brain, the patient wakes up. 移植一个大脑半球后  病人醒来
Transfer one hemisphere, the patient wakes up. 移植两个半球后
Transfer both hemispheres, 这个或那个病人醒来
one patient or the other wakes up, 但从来不会两个都醒过来
but never both. 如果真是这样
If that happened, 我们就有了一个伟大的新论据
we'd have a great new argument 来证明灵魂存在
for the existence of a soul. 如何解释
What could possibly explain 只要我们不同时移植两个大脑半球
why either hemisphere of the brain 一般情况下
would normally be enough, 大脑任何一个半球就够用了呢
as long as we don't transfer both? 当我们同时移植它们
When we transfer both, 一个半球有时可能工作
one hemisphere might work sometimes, 另一个半球也有时可能工作
sometimes the other hemisphere, 但两个半球从来不同时工作
but never both. 如何解释这一点呢
What could possibly explain that? 灵魂能解释这一点
Souls could explain that. 如果灵魂不能分裂
If souls can't split, 它只能跟随一半的大脑
it can only follow one half of the brain, 这就是为什么有时这个人醒来
and that's why we'll get somebody that's got one half, 有时那个人醒来  但他们从不同时醒来
sometimes the other half, but never both halves. 这是一种
So there's a kind of 灵魂存在的
empirical argument 经验主义论证
for the existence of the soul 如果我们真的发现了这种结果的话
if we found those kinds of results. 当然  这里要划一个很大的问号
Of course, that's a big "If." 千万别以为我刚才说的
Please don't go away thinking that what I just said is, 是一个灵魂存在的新论据
here's a new argument for the soul. 我们不做大脑移植手术
We don't do brain transfers, 更不用说半个大脑移植手术了
let alone have a half-a-brain transfers. 我们没做过任何试验
We don't have any experiments 能够表明一半人会醒来
that suggest one half wakes up, 一半人醒不过来
but not the other half. 我说的是如果有一天我们真发现了这种事
All I'm saying is that if someday we found that, 那么
at that point, 就会出现一个灵魂存在的新论据
we'd have an argument for the soul. 好了  让我们暂且把灵魂理论放在一边
Well again, let me put away the soul theory again. 我探讨它是因为
I was exploring it because it's interesting 思考它背后的含义很有意思
to think about its implication. 但是因为我不相信灵魂存在
But since I don't believe in souls, 我希望在
I want to choose between 肉体理论和人格理论中做出选择
the body view and the personality view. 我们已经看到
Both of them, 这两个理论在面对裂变问题时
as we saw in the face of fission, 都需要引入无分支原则
needs to accept a no branching rule. 如果这两个理论
If they're going to survive 要参与对这个问题的探讨
thinking about this case at all, 它们就必须加入无分支原则
we need to throw in a no branching rule. 不管你是否相信
Whether or not you find the no branching rule 无分支原则
hard to believe, 如果两种理论都非它不可
if both views are stuck with it, 那么我们就缺不了它
well, then we're stuck with it. 先来选择是相信
So let's try to choose 带有无分支原则的人格理论
between the personality theory with the no branching rule 还是带有无分支原则的肉体理论
and the body theory with the no branching rule. 我们应该接受哪个
Which of these should we accept? 哪个是比较好的人格同一性理论呢
Which of these is the better theory of personal identity? 答案是"我也不确定"
Answer, "I'm not sure." 在我的哲学生涯中
Over the course of my philosophical career, 我曾于两者之间徘徊
I have moved back and forth between them. 确实有很长一段时间
There was certainly a long period of time 我发现人格理论
in which I found the personality theory, 即  带有无分支原则的人格理论
that is, the personality theory with a no branching rule, 更优也更有说服力
to be the better and more plausible theory. 在当代哲学界它也确实
And it certainly has any number of advocates 有不少拥趸
on the contemporary philosophical scene. 但在我哲学生涯的另一个时期
But at other times in my philosophical career, 我发现肉体理论  即
I have found the body theory, that is to say, 带有无分支原则的肉体理论
the body theory with the no branching rule, 更合理
to be the more plausible theory. 同样
And it is certainly the case that 肉体理论在当代哲学家中
the body theory has its advocates 也有很多拥趸
among contemporary philosophers. 从价值上来讲  我其实不认为
For what it's worth--and I don't actually think that 我下面的话有多大意义
what I'm about to say is worth all that much. 我只想告诉你们我自己的小信仰
I'm going to share with you my own pet belief. 目前我倾向相信肉体理论
These days I'm inclined to go with the body theory. 我倾向于认为
I'm inclined to think that 人格同一性的关键是拥有同一肉体
the key to personal identity is having the same body, 只要没有出现分支
as long as there's no branching, 只要没有分裂
as long as there's no splitting. 但是当然  你们要做出你们自己的选择
But it's certainly open to you to decide that you think "不不  人格理论更好"
"No, no, the personality theory is the stronger view." 我解决不了这个问题
I can't settle the question. 我所有的哲学论证都告诉你们了
I don't have any more philosophical arguments 再没藏着掖着了
up my sleeve on this issue. 但我的确还有另一个观点
But I do have another point 值得拿出来讨论一下
that's worth considering. 尽管我倾向于认为
Although I'm inclined to think that 肉体理论也许是探寻
the body theory may be the best view about 人格同一性的关键的最佳理论
what's the key to personal identity, 但我同时也认为
I'm also inclined to think 它其实无关紧要
it doesn't really matter. 我们曾经一直问这样的问题
We've been posing the following question. 我们一直问
We've been asking, "我怎样才能真正活下来"
"What does it take for it to be true that I survive?" 也许我们的结论应该是
And it may be that what we should conclude is, 不管对应的最佳答案是什么
whatever the best answer to that question is, 它都不是
it's not the question 我们本应该认真思考的问题
we should really have been thinking about. 我们那时还没达到思考这个问题的高度
We weren't going to be in a position to see that 经过我们
until we went through all the stuff 这几周的讨论
we've been going over for the last couple of weeks. 我们现在可以思考了
But now that we're here, 我们现在也许会问
we're in a position perhaps to raise the question, 我们是否应该问  怎样才能存活下来
should we be asking what it takes to survive? 抑或问
Or should we be asking about 活下来的意义是什么
what matters in survival? 提出这个问题时
Now, in posing this question, 我已经假设
I'm obviously presupposing that 我们能够清楚区分这两个问题了
we can draw a distinction between the question, "我是否存活下来
"Do I survive? 未来是否存在某个人  他是我"
Is somebody that exists in the future, whatever, me?" 以及
and the question, "我活下来的目的究竟是什么
"What was it that I wanted, when I wanted to survive? 一般而言  存活的意义在哪里"
What was it that mattered in ordinary survival?" 这些问题也许确有不同
And it might be that these things can actually come apart. 为了看清这点  我们先来
To see this, suppose we start 讨论一下灵魂理论
by thinking again about the soul view. 假设有灵魂存在
Suppose there are souls. 我不相信灵魂  但可以想象一下
I don't believe in them, but let's imagine. 假设有灵魂存在
Suppose there are souls. 假设灵魂是判断人格同一性的关键
And suppose that souls are the key to personal identity. 所以如果某人有我的灵魂  那他就是我
So somebody is me if they've got my soul. 或者说得更直接些
Or, to put it more straightforwardly, 下周来上课的那个我
next week the person that's me 是个拥有我灵魂的人
is the person with my soul. 只要有人拥有我的灵魂  我就始终活着
I survive as long as there's somebody around with my soul. 一百年后  我还活着吗
A hundred years from now, am I still around? 如果我灵魂的还活着  那我就还活着
Well, if my soul's still around, that's me. 这就是灵魂理论的说法
That's what the soul theory says. 假设它正确
And suppose it's the truth. 现在来考虑一下这种可能性
Now, consider the following possibility. 假设人可以投胎重生
Suppose that people can be reincarnated. 也就是说  当他们肉体死亡时
That is to say, at the death of their body, 他们的灵魂承袭了  激活了
their soul takes over, animates, 迁徙了  连接到
inhabits, gets connected 一具新生的肉体
to a new body that's being born. 和一些传统文化
But, unlike the kind of reincarnation cases 以及宗教中的
that get talked about in popular culture 转世重生的故事不同
and various religions where, 最起码在那些情形下
at least under the right circumstances, 你可以记得你的前生
you can remember your prior lives, 而在这里我们只设想灵魂重生时
let's imagine that when the soul is reincarnated, 被擦除得非常干净
it's scrubbed completely clean, 没有任何前生的痕迹
no traces whatsoever of the earlier life. 无迹可寻
No way to retrieve it. 没有人格因缘轮回这类事情
No karmic similarities of personality or anything, 就是一块空白的黑板
just starts over like a blank slate. 一块彻底被擦干净了的黑板
Like a blackboard that's been completely erased, 我们现在有一块同样的黑板
we now have the very same blackboard, 然后开始往上写东西
and now we start writing new things on it. 想象中的重生便是此意
Imagine that that's the way reincarnation worked. 如果有人问你
So somebody asks you, "一千年以后你还活着吗"
"Will you still be around in 1,000 years?" 回答会是  "是的
The answer's going to be, "Yes, 因为我的灵魂将会重生
because my soul will be reincarnated. 一千年以后  会有一个人
In 1,000 years there'll be somebody 用我的灵魂
that has the very same soul 激活现在这个肉体"
that's animating my body right now." 当然了
Of course, 这个灵魂不会记得自己曾是雪莱·卡根
that soul won't remember being Shelly Kagan. 它对前生没有任何记忆
It won't have any memories of its prior life. 且在任何方面都不与雪莱·卡根相像
It won't be like Shelly Kagan in any way 没有雪莱·卡根的愿望
in terms of Shelly Kagan's desires 抱负  目标或者恐惧
or ambitions or goals or fears. 不会出现
It won't be that 人格通过
we can see why that personality emerges 因果报应显现
through karmic cause 我前生的生活方式
and effect in any way that are a function of 从而影响今生的生活
what I was like in my life. 但他就是雪莱·卡根
It'll be Shelly Kagan, 因为他有雪莱·卡根的灵魂
because it's Shelly Kagan's soul, 只是和前生没有任何交集
but with no overlap of 人格  记忆都不重叠
personality, memories, anything. 那我就想说了  "谁在乎呢"
Then I want to say, "Who cares?" 在这些情形中活下来
The fact that I will survive under those circumstances 对我而言没有任何意义
doesn't give me anything that matters to me. 被告知自己能存活下来
It's no comfort to me 并不会给我带来任何慰藉
to be told I will survive, 总之  灵魂是人格同一性的关键
because after all, the soul is the key to personal identity, 但如果没有相同的人格  没有记忆
if there's no similar personality, no memories, 没有信仰  没有以前生活的回忆
no beliefs, no retrievable memories of past lives. 那么谁在乎他是不是我呢
Then who cares that it's me? 如果你能把握这个观点的要点
If you can feel the force of that thought, 你就能看到  "我能否活下去"
then you're seeing how the question "Will I survive?" 和"我活下去有什么意义"其实有区别
can be separated out from the question "What matters?" 我们关心的是什么
What do we care about? 仅仅是灵魂的存活吗
Bare survival of my soul, 即使它是
even though that is the key 人格同一性的关键  就算它是吧
to personal identity--if it is-- 单灵魂之存活
bare survival of my soul 并非我所求
doesn't give me what I want. 这种说法同下面的说法一样不能让人满意
It's no more comforting or satisfying 如果你说
than if you said, "看到这块关节骨了吗
"You know this knucklebone? 你死后  我们会做个关节手术
After you die, we're going to do knucklebone surgery 把这个关节骨移植到另一个人的身体里
and implant that knucklebone in somebody else's body. 这块骨头会活下去"
And that knucklebone is going to survive." 我会说  "太有意思了
And I say, "Oh, that's very interesting that 这块关节骨
that knucklebone will be 从现在起会活上100或1000年
around 100 or 1,000 years from now. 但是谁在乎呢"
But who cares?" 如果有人提出人格同一性的
And if the knucklebone theory 关节理论
of personal identity gets proposed 有人对你说  "是的  但是你看
and somebody said, "Oh, yes, but you see, 那个有你关节骨的人是你
that person now with that knucklebone will be you, 因为人格同一性的关键
because the key to personal identity 是拥有同一块关节骨"
is having the very same knucklebone." 那我会说  "好吧  他就是我
I say, "All right, so it's me. 但谁在乎呢"
Who cares?" 仅仅是关节骨活下来
Bare knucklebone survival 并没有给我带来任何意义
does not give me what matters. 人格同一性的关节理论
Now, the knucklebone theory of personal identity 简直愚蠢至极
is a very stupid theory. 相比之下  人格同一性的灵魂理论
In contrast, the soul theory of personal survival 却并不愚蠢
is not a stupid theory. 但不管怎么说
But for all that, 它也没能如我所愿
it doesn't give me what I want. 当你想到  活下来意味着
When you think about the possibility of bare survival 仅仅只是擦除干净的灵魂活下来
of the scrubbed, clean, erased soul, 你就会发现存活并不是你真正想要的
you see that survival wasn't really everything you wanted. 你想要的  至少我想要的
What you wanted--at least what I want, 请你们问一下自己
I invite you to ask yourself 你们是否也想要同样的东西
whether you want the same thing 我想要的不仅仅是活下去
what I want is not just survival, 而是带着相同的人格活下去
but survival with the same personality. 所以即使灵魂理论
So even if the soul theory 是人格同一性的正确理论
is the correct theory of personality, 它也不足以给我活下去的意义
it's not enough to give me what matters. 重要的不是活下去
What matters isn't just survival. 而是带着相同的人格活下去
It's survival with the same personality. 让我们看一下肉体理论
Let's consider the body view. 假设人格同一性的
Suppose that the body theory 肉体理论是正确的
of personal identity is correct. 要想成为我  就得有个人
And to be me, there's got to be somebody there 拥有我的肉体
that's got my body. 假定大脑版本是
Let's suppose the brain version of the theory 肉体理论的最佳版本
is the best version. 那么明年
And so next year, 会有一个人
there's going to be somebody 拥有我的大脑
that's got my brain. 但设想一下  倘若我被洗脑了
But let's imagine that the brain has been scrubbed clean. 所有记忆被完全清除
All memory traces have been completely erased. 我们说的是彻底的
We're talking complete 不可逆转的失忆
irreversible amnesia, 彻底删除
complete erasure of 大脑硬盘里的数据
the brain's hard drive. 没有愿望  记忆
No traces of desires and memories 意图  信仰的一丝遗迹
and intentions and beliefs 全部格式化
to eventually be recovered 只要手术成功
if only we have the right surgery, 或者叫过程  心理疗法
or procedure, or psychotherapy, 或者随便什么叫法
or what have you. 一切都消失了
It's gone. 现在  那个人
Now, that thing that wakes up 历经这次彻底的不可逆转的失忆后醒来
after this complete irreversible amnesia 肯定会重建人格
will no doubt eventually develop a personality, 一系列的信仰  记忆
a set of beliefs, memories. 没人知道他是谁  所以大家叫他
Nobody knows who it is, so they call it... 他们看到他在街上游荡
You know, they find it wandering on the streets. 于是叫他无名氏
They call it John Doe. 无名氏最终会有一系列的信仰
John Doe will eventually have a bunch of beliefs 关于世界如何运作  制定一些计划
about how the world works, make some plans, 具有一些记忆
get some memories. 根据肉体理论  那个人就是我
According to the body theory, that's me. 如果肉体理论正确  天哪  他就是我
And if the body theory is correct, well by golly, it is me. 我只能这么说  他就是我
And all I can say in response to that is, it's me. 但谁在乎呢  那又怎样呢
But who cares? So what? 想到自己五十年后依然活着
I'm not comforted by the thought that 我却并不因此而倍感宽慰
I will still be around 50 years from now, 这个人是我  但却没有我的人格
if the thing that's me doesn't have my personality. 仅仅是肉体的存活  这还不足以
Mere bodily survival isn't enough 给我我想要的
to give me what I want. 我想要的不仅仅是肉体活下来
I want more than mere bodily survival. 我希望带着同样的人格活下来
I want to survive with the same personality. 所以即使人格同一性的肉体理论成立
So even if the body theory of personal identity is the right theory, 我的回答仍然是  "那又怎样呢"
what I want to say in response to that is, "So what?" 如果真正关键的问题不是
If the really crucial question is not "我能否活下去"
"Do I survive," 而是"当我活下去的时候
but "Do I have what I wanted 我能得以如愿以偿吗"
when I wanted to survive?" 那么答案就是  肉体理论没法满足你
the answer is the body theory doesn't give it. 我不仅仅想活下去
I don't just want to survive. 我还想带着同样的人格活下去
I want to survive with the same personality. 这样的话  我们能不能下结论说
Should we conclude, therefore, 这个重要问题的关键在于
that the key to the important question 即  "什么活下来才有意义"
namely, "What matters?" 这一问题的答案
the answer to that question, 我们能不能下结论说  是同样的人格呢
should we conclude, is, same personality? 下节课再讨论这个问题
That's a question we'll have to take up next time. 



 Chapter 13: 本质因素何在（续）、死亡的本质（一）


在上节课结束的时候
At the end of last class, 我提出一个问题
I began to raise the question as to whether or not 那就是我们是否应该区分两个
we should distinguish two questions 我们经常混为一谈的问题
that we would normally be inclined to run together. 我们一直在问自己
We've been asking ourselves, 到底需要什么我才能活下来
what does it take for me to survive, 才能继续存在
for me to continue to exist? 但我觉得
But it's possible, i suggested, 我们其实不应关注这个问题
that we really shouldn't focus on the question, 即如何才能活下来
what does it take for me to survive? 而应该关注
But rather, "我在乎的是什么
"what is it that I care about? 什么活下来才有意义"
What is it that matters in survival?" 因为从逻辑上讲
Because it's possible, logically speaking, 有可能我活了下来
that there could be cases in which I survive, 却失去了我活着时通常拥有的东西
but I don't have what I normally have when I survive, 失去了对我重要的东西
and so I don't have what matters. 失去了当初想存活时我想要的那些东西
I don't have what I wanted, when I wanted to survive. 一般情况下  我活下来
It could be that in the typical cases of survival 能够继续拥有这些东西
I've got that extra thing. 但我们可以设想另一些情况  我活下来
But we can think of cases in which I would survive, 却失去了这些东西
but I don't have that extra thing, 我失去了所有对我重要的东西
and so I wouldn't have everything that matters to me. 在这种情况下
So as it were, 我们可以说
we might say, 仅仅是活下来或是肉体活下来
it might be that mere survival or bare bones survival 对我毫无意义
doesn't really give me what matters. 除了活下来  我还想要更多
What I want is survival plus something else. 为阐明这个问题  我要请大家思考一下
And I tried to motivate this question by having you think about 如果我们假设
perhaps the possibility, 灵魂理论是人格同一性的正确理论
if the soul view was the truth about personal identity, 那我们来设想一个
but imagine a case of 彻底的不可逆的失忆案例
complete irreversible amnesia, 尽管灵魂仍然是你的灵魂
while nonetheless, it's still your soul continuing. 但这个灵魂
But the soul is going to then, 已经被完全删除干净
having been scrubbed clean, 获得全新人格
get a brand new personality. 有了一系列新记忆  新愿望和新信仰
A new set of memories, new set of desires, new set of beliefs. 无法恢复你以前的人格
No chance of recalling your previous, 或者说是你现在的人格
current, personality. 当我思考这个案例的时候
And when I think about that case, 我想说
I find myself wanting to say, "好吧  我能活下来  但那又怎样呢
"All right, I'll survive, but so what? 我不在乎
I don't care. 因为这种情况下
It doesn't matter 活下来的人是不是我已经不重要了
that it's me, in that case. 因为我不仅希望活下来的人是我
Because I don't just want it to be me, 我还希望活下来的人是带有我人格的我"
I want to have there be somebody that's me with my personality." 同样  假设我们认为肉体理论是正确的
Similarly, suppose we thought that the body view was the correct view 我们可以再设想一个完全失忆的例子
and we imagine, again, some sort of case of complete amnesia. 我们有了新的人格
And so then we get a new personality 你会说"瞧  这就是你
and you say, "Oh look, that's going to be you, 你的肉体  你的大脑  你还活着"
your body, your brain. You're still around." 而我会说"也许这是真的  但那又怎样
And I say, "It could be true, but so what? 这不是我想要的活下来
It doesn't give me what I want, when I want to survive. 我不仅希望活下来的人是我
What I want isn't just for it to be me. 而且希望活下来的人是带有我人格的我"
I want it to be me with my personality." 所以我们是否该这么下结论
So should we conclude, therefore, 真正重要的并不是活下来
that what really matters is not just survival 而是带有相同的人格活下来
but having the same personality? 那么
Would that-- 假设人格同一性的人格理论是正确的
Suppose the personality view of personality identity was correct. 它能否让我们不仅活下来
Would that then give us not just personal survival, 而且有意义地活下来
but what matters? 我想它已经很接近了  差点就可以了
I think that's close, but no cigar. 不过还不够完善
Not quite good enough. 要注意一点  回想一下
To see that, recall the fact that 根据人格同一性的人格理论
according to the personality view, as a theory of personality identity, 是同一个人的关键不在于
the crucial point isn't 保持人格完全一样
that my personality stay identical. 我不必保持完全一样的
It's not that I have to keep all 信仰  愿望  和记忆
exactly the very same beliefs, desires, and memories. 因为如果这样的话
Because of course, if we said that, 那我一有新信仰  我就死了
then I'd die as soon as I got a new belief. 我一忘记自己二十分钟前做的事情
I'd die as soon as I forgot anything at all 我也就死了
of what I was doing 20 minutes ago. 当然不是这样  根据人格理论
No, according to the personality theory, 判断人格同一性
what personal identity requires 并不需要完全相同的人格
isn't item-for-item the same personality, 而只需要是同一个不断演变的人格
but rather the same evolving personality. 我会有新信仰  新愿望  新目标
I gain new beliefs, new desires, new goals. 我可能会失去某些以前的信仰
I may lose some of my previous beliefs, 也可能忘掉某些以前的记忆
lose some of my previous memories, 但这都没关系
but that's okay 只要是同一个有足够重叠部分
as long as it's a slowly-evolving personality 慢慢演变的人格就行
with enough overlap. 好了  现在让我们考虑下面这种情况
Okay, so now let's consider the following case. 从我开始  我在这里
I start off. Here I am. 我有一些信念
I've got a set of beliefs, 比如相信自己是雪莱·卡根
a set of--I believe I'm Shelly Kagan, 记得自己在芝加哥长大
a set of memories about growing up in Chicago. 我有一些愿望
I have a certain set of desires 比如说想要完成自己的哲学著作
about wanting to finish my book in philosophy 如此等等
and so forth. 我不断变老  越来越老
And I get older and older and older. 我有了些新记忆
And I get some new memories 有了些新愿望  新目标
and some new desires and some new goals. 假设我已经很老很老了
Suppose that I get very, very, very old. 已经100岁  200岁  300岁了
I get 100 years old, 200 years old, 300 years old. 大约200岁的时候
Somewhere around 200, 我的朋友给我取了个绰号
suppose that my friends give me a nickname. 他们叫我乔乔
They call me Jo-Jo. 天知道为什么  他们叫我乔乔
Who knows why, they call me Jo-Jo. 过了段时间
And after a while, 这个名字传开了
somewhere the name spreads 到了我250岁的时候
and by the time I'm 250 years old, 大家都叫我乔乔
everybody's calling me Jo-Jo. 没人再叫我雪莱了
Nobody calls me Shelly anymore. 到了我300岁  350岁  400岁
And by the time I'm 300, 350, 400, 我已经忘了曾经有人叫我雪莱
I've forgotten anybody used to call me Jo-Jo. [correction: Shelly] 也不记得自己在芝加哥长大
And I no longer remember growing up in Chicago. 我还记得我是个100岁小伙子时的事情
I remember things about my youth when I was a lad of 100. 但再早以前的事情不记得了
But I can't go back to what it was like in the early days, 就像你不记得三四岁时的事情
just like you can't go back to what it was like to be four or three. 假设随着年龄的增长  情况一直如此
And suppose that all this is going on as I'm getting older and older. 我的人格以各种方式不断变化
My personality is changing in a variety of other ways. 我对哲学失去了兴趣
I lose my interest in philosophy 而开始对
and take up an interest in, 我也不清楚  也许对有机化学产生了兴趣
I don't know, something that completely doesn't--organic chemistry 我以前对这门课压根就没兴趣
holds no interest to me whatsoever. 我对有机化学着了迷
I become fascinated by the details of organic chemistry. 我的价值观也变了
And my values change. 现在我是个  现在  站到这边来
Now I'm a kind--now, over here-- 我是个和蔼  充满同情心的热心人
I'm a kind, compassionate, warm individual 关心弱势群体
who cares about the downtrodden. 但到了300多岁  我会说
But around 300, I say, "那帮弱势群体  谁要他们啊"
"The downtrodden. Who needs them?" 到了我500岁的时候
And by the time I'm 500, 我变得完全自以为是
I become completely self-absorbed 我变成个凶狠残暴  卑鄙可耻的家伙
and I'm sort of a vicious, cruel, vile person. 现在我800岁  900岁了
Here I am, 800 years old, 900 years old. 《圣经》里的玛士撒拉活了969岁
Methuselah, in the Bible, lives for 969 years. 他是最长寿的人
He's the oldest person. 好啦  我现在也969岁了
So okay, here I am, 969 years old. 就像玛士撒拉一样
I'm like Methuselah. 我们把这个例子称为玛士撒拉案例
Call this the Methuselah case. 这例子中的关键一点就是
And the crucial point about the case is that 我们规定其间没有发生过任何突变
we stipulate that at no point was there a dramatic change. 一切都是渐进地  缓慢地演变
It was all gradual, slow, evolving. 就像在现实生活中发生的那样
in just the way it happens in real life. 只不过  像玛士撒拉一样
It's just that as Methuselah, 我活得非常非常久
I live a very, very, very long time. 到了最后
And by the end of it, and indeed, 比方说到了六七百岁的时候
let's say somewhere around 600 or 700, 我其实已经完全变成了另一个人
I'm a completely different person, 就像我们刚才说的那样
as we might put it. 我不是指真的变了个人
I don't mean literally. 我是指就人格而言变了个人
I mean in terms of my personality. 现在  不要忘了
Now, remember, 根据人格同一性的人格理论
according to the personality theory of personal identity, 判断是不是我的关键在于
what makes it me is the fact 拥有同一个不断演变的人格
that it's the same evolving personality. 这个例子里我们假定了
And I stipulated that 这是同一个不断演变的人格
it is the same evolving personality. 所以那个人依然是我
So that's still me 他在600年  700年以后还活着
that's going to be around 600 years from now, 700 years from now. 可是当我思考这个例子时
But when I think about that case, 我会说"那又怎样  谁在乎呢"
I say, "So what? Who cares?" 当我思考这个例子时
When I think about that case, 我会说
I say, "没错  我们不妨说
"True, we'll just stipulate 他就是700岁时的我"
that will be me in 700 years." 但这并没给我想要的东西
But it doesn't give me what I want. 那时的我和现在的我判若两人
That person is so completely unlike me. 他不记得自己是雪莱·卡根
He doesn't remember being Shelly Kagan. 也不记得在芝加哥长大
He doesn't remember growing up in Chicago. 他不记得我的家人
He doesn't remember my family. 他有了新的嗜好  品位和价值观
He has completely different interests and tastes and values." 我会说"就算他是我  又怎样呢
I say "It's me, but so what? 这没给我想要的东西
It doesn't give me what I want. 这对我并没什么意义"
It doesn't give me what matters." 我想要的
When I think about what I want, 并不是有个人
it's not just that there be somebody 最终拥有我不断演变的人格
at the tail end of an evolving personality. 我希望那个人要像我
I want that person to be like me, 而并不仅仅是我
not just be me. 我希望那个人像我
I want that person to be like me. 在玛士撒拉一例中
And in the Methuselah case, i've stipulated, 最后那个人和我一点都不像
it ends up not being very much like me at all. 所以我没得到自己想要的东西
So it doesn't give me what I want. 当我思考自己想要什么时
When I think about what I want-- 我希望大家
and I'm just going to invite you to, 在座的每个人也都问一下自己
each one of you, to ask yourself 你想要的是什么
what is it that you want, 什么活下来对你有意义
what matters to you in survival?-- 当我思考什么对我有意义时
when I think about what matters to me, 我想的不仅仅是活下来
it's not just survival. 不仅仅是带有
It's not just survival 同一个不断演变的人格活下来
as part of the same ongoing personality. 而是带有相似的人格活下来
It's survival with a similar personality. 不需要完全一样
Not identical, item for item, 只要足够接近  跟我相当相似就可以
but close enough to be fairly similar to me. 如果是这样  那这对我就有意义
Give me that, and I've got what matters. 如果不是这样
Don't give me that, 活下来就对我没意义
and I don't have what mattes. 我想再进一步阐述一下这个问题
In fact, I'm inclined to go a little bit further. 一旦我得到这些
Once you give me that, 未来有个人
give me that there's somebody 拥有和我相似的人格
there with my similar personality, 我想这也许就是活下来的全部意义
I think that may be all that matters. 到目前为止  我一直在说
Up to this moment, I've been saying, okay, 仅仅活下来是不够的
survival by itself isn't good enough. 除了活下来  你还需要一些额外的东西
You need survival plus something else. 至少在我的想法中
And I'm now suggesting that in my own case at least, 这个额外的东西
the something else is, something extra, 就是同一个相似的人格
is same, similar personality. 只要我的相似人格活下来
It might be that I get what matters to me even if I have, 那这对我就有意义
as long as I have, similar personality, 即使我没活下来也没关系
even if I don't have survival. 假设  虽然我不相信灵魂
Suppose--I don't believe in souls, 但假设灵魂真的存在
but suppose there really are souls. 假设灵魂是人格同一性的关键
And suppose the soul is the key to personal identity. 假设洛克担心的事情真的发生了
And suppose the thing that Locke was worried about really does happen. 每天午夜  上帝都会毁灭旧灵魂
Every day at midnight God destroys the old soul 用新灵魂代替它
and replaces it with a new soul 这个新灵魂与午夜前那个旧灵魂有着
that has the very same personality as the one before midnight, 相似的人格
similar personality, 相同的信仰  愿望  等等
same beliefs, desires, and so forth and so on. 如果我发现这就是形而上学中的情况
If I were to discover that's what was happening metaphysically 且灵魂理论真是人格同一性的正确理论
and the soul view was the true theory of personal identity, 我就会说"哈  看来我活不过今晚了
I'd say, "Huh! Turns out I'm not going to survive tonight. 我就要死了"
I'm going to die." 但谁又在乎呢
Who cares? 明天还是会有一个人拥有我的信仰
There'll be somebody around tomorrow with my beliefs, 我的愿望  我的目标  我的抱负
my desires, my goals, my ambitions, 我的恐惧  以及我的价值观
my fears, my values. 这就足够了
Good enough. 我其实不在乎我能不能活下来
I don't really care whether I'm going to survive. 我在乎的是  就人格而言
What I care about is whether there'll be somebody 是否将有一个人和我很像呢
that's similar to me in the right way in terms of my personality. 所以也许我们一直在探讨的
So it might be that the whole question we've been focusing on, "我如何才能活下来"这个问题
"What does it take to survive?" 误导了我们
may have turned out to be misguided. 真正的问题并不是
The real question may not be "如何才能活下来"
"What does it take to survive?" 而是"什么活下来才有意义"
but "What matters?" 也许我们可以说  尽管通常情况下
And it might turn out that although, normally, 拥有这些重要的东西和活下来密不可分
having what matters goes hand in hand with surviving, 但从逻辑上来说  它们是可以分开的
logically speaking, they can come apart. 至少在我看来
And what matters, or so it seems to me, at least, 重要的并不是活下来本身
isn't survival per se, 而是拥有相同的人格活下来
but rather having the same personality. 我个人倾向于认为
Since I'm inclined to think 肉体理论是人格同一性的正确理论
that the body view is the correct theory of personal identity, 我会说  瞧  明天会有个人
I want to say, look, somebody around tomorrow, 如果上帝昨晚把我的肉体替换成
if overnight God replaces my body 另一具看起来一模一样的肉体
with some identical looking body 而且还带有相同的人格
and keeps the personality the same, 就算那人不是我  也没关系
that won't be me, but all right. 已经够好的了
It's good enough. 对我来说重要的不是活下去本身
What matters to me isn't survival per se. 严格说来  根本不是活下去
Indeed, isn't survival, strictly, at all. 而是拥有相同的人格
It's having the same personality. 那么  这种看法还给我们什么启发呢
Still, what does that leave us? 这告诉我们  可能在某些情况下
That leaves us with the possibility that there could be cases where 你死了  你没能活下来
you die and you don't survive, 或许上帝让我起死回生
maybe God swoops me up upon death. 尽管肉体已经毁灭
My body dies, 但上帝取出我的人格信息
but he sort of swoops up my information about my personality 放在天堂里新造出的一个人里面
and recreates somebody up in heaven with that similar personality. 如果他有另一个灵魂  那他就不是我
It won't be me, if it's a different soul. 如果他有另一个肉体  那他也不是我
It won't be me, if it's a different body. 但我还是要说
But still, I want to say, "这给了我有意义的东西"
"It will give me what matters!" 这是一种可能性
That's a possibility. 但事实上  我认为这不会发生
But I don't, in fact, think it's going to happen. 我告诉过你们我是个物理主义者
I believe--I've told you I'm a physicalist-- 我相信将会发生的事情是
I believe that what's going to happen is, 我的肉体死亡之时
at the death of my body, 一切也就终结了
that's going to be the end. 我一直在论证的是
Now, what I've been arguing is that, 从逻辑上讲  即使你是物理主义者
logically speaking, even if you are a physicalist, 也无法排除幸免一死的可能性
that doesn't rule out the possibility of survival. 假设你相信人格理论
Suppose you believe in the personality theory. 你的肉体将会消亡
Your body's going to die, 但你的人格却能保留下来
but your personality could continue. 再或者  即便你是个肉体理论者
Or it might be, even as a body theorist, 我将不复存在
I'll cease to exist 但对我有意义的东西会接着活下来
but what matters will continue. 这些都有可能
These are possibilities. 但不论真假
But for what it's worth, 其实我不相信
I don't in fact believe 这些真会发生
they're actually what's going to happen. 当然  这都是神学的事了
Of course, these are also theological matters, 我今天不会在这里
and so I'm not trying to say anything here today 劝说你们放弃神学信仰
to argue you out of the theological conviction 不管是上帝使你肉体复活
that God will resurrect the body 还是上帝把你的人格放到某位新天使身上
or God will transplant your personality into some new angel body, 如果你相信人格理论
but if you believe in the personality theory, 那个人就是你  如此这般
that will be you, or what have you. 我的目的并不是
I'm not--it's not my goal here 去争辩或去驳斥神学上的可能性
to argue for or against these theological possibilities, 花时间从哲学上
having at least taken the time to explain philosophically 来把事情搞清楚
how we could make sense of them. 但我真的想说  我不相信那些观点
But I do want to report that I don't believe them. 我相信当我肉体死了  我就死了
I believe that when my body dies, that's it for me. 之后再不会有别的什么我
There won't be anything that's me afterwards. 不会再有别的什么
There won't be anything that's-- 即便我想要的还不仅仅是活下来本身
even though what I want per se isn't survival. 不光我不会活下来
Not only won't I survive, 我相信在我死后
I believe after my death 那些对我来说重要的东西也将不复存在
what matters to me in that situation won't continue either. 在我肉体死后
There won't be somebody with 不可能有人拥有和我相似的人格
a similar personality to mine after the death of my body. 好了  我们已经花时间
All right, so having spent all this time 搞清楚了人格同一性的本质
getting clearer about the nature of personal identity, 搞清楚了人是什么
and getting clearer about what people are, 还有幸免一死的种种可能性  等等
and the possibilities of survival, and so forth, 我们驳斥了灵魂存在的说法
having argued against the existence of souls, 并从物理主义者的角度
and for a physicalist view-- 物理主义似乎能同时接受肉体理论
physicalism seems compatible with both the body view 以及人格理论
and the personality view, 具体选择哪一个就是你的事情了
leave it to you to decide between them, 目前我是比较偏好肉体理论
I myself currently favor the body view-- 让我们问一下
Let's ask, "从物理主义的角度出发
"So just what is death, 死亡到底是什么"
anyway, on the physicalist view?" 尽管看起来似乎很明确
It might seem as though it's fairly straightforward. 人  说到底  就是一具肉体
A person, after all, is just a body 它以正确的方式运转
that's functioning in the right way 以便完成一些人的行为
so as to do these person tricks. 也就是人体功能
It's P-functioning, 我们不止一次提到过
as we've put it at one time or another. 人就是一具实现人体功能的肉体
And so a person is just a P-functioning body, 无论你强调它的肉体方面
whether you emphasize the body side there 还是人格方面
or the personality side of that equation. 死亡到底是什么  我何时死亡
What exactly is it to die? When do I die? 我们现在讨论这个问题
Let's turn to that question. 我何时死亡  死亡究竟是什么
When do I die and what is death? 大致上说  答案大概是
Roughly speaking, the answer, presumably, 在物理主义者看来
on the physicalist view, 死亡就是
is going to be something like-- 若我的肉体能实现人体功能  我就活着
if I'm alive when we've got a P-functioning body, 简单来说  当它停止运转
roughly speaking, I die when that stops happening, 当肉体分解  停止正常工作时
when the body breaks and 我就死了
it stops functioning properly. 这或多或少算是
That seems, more or less, 物理主义者给出的正确答案
the right answer from the physicalist point of view, 我们一会儿会看到
although as we'll see probably later today, 我们还要稍微完善这个答案
we need to refine it somewhat. 但是首先  我们问一个略有不同的问题
But first, let's ask a slightly different question. 定义死亡时刻时  哪些功能至关重要
Which functions are crucial in defining the moment of death? 毕竟
After all, 我们意识到这里有个肉体
we've got the idea that here's the body, 这是个正常运转的肉体
here's a functioning body. 在你们面前有一个
Here's one in front of you. 你们每个人也有一个
Each one of you has got one. 你就是一具正常运转的肉体
You're a functioning body. 你的肉体可以做很多事情
There's a variety of functions that your body's engaged in. 有些部分只负责消化
Some of them have to do with merely digesting food 有些移动肉体
and moving the body around, 有些让心脏跳动
and making the heart beat, 让肺呼吸
and the lungs open and close. 我们把这些称为肉体功能
Call those things the bodily functions. 同时我们每个人
And there's also, of course, in each one of our cases, 都有高级心理认知能力
there's these higher mental cognitive functions 我称这些为人格功能
that I've been calling the person functioning, 这边是肉体功能
there's the B-functions 这边是人格功能
and there's the P-functions. 大致说来
Well, roughly speaking, 当这些功能停止时我就死了
I die when the functioning stops, 但到底是哪种功能呢
but which functions? 是肉体功能还是人格功能
Is it the body functions or the personality functions? 我们看个通常情况下的例子
So let's take a look at the normal situation. 这是你肉体存在的时间
Here's the existence of your body. 在你肉体存在的大部分时间里
And during most of the existence of your body, 它都在工作
it's functioning. 肉体功能
The body functions. 这里  它就不再工作了
Over here, it's no longer functioning. 成为尸体
It's a corpse. 在你的肉体正常工作期间
During some of the period when your body's functioning, 你可以进行高级认知活动
it's doing the higher cognitive stuff. 即人格功能
The personality functions. 这边是早期
Now, this is the very early stuff 你的肉体还在孕育
when your body's still developing 你的大脑还没启动
and your brain hasn't turned on yet, 也或者大脑已经启动了
or your brain is turned on, 但还不能称为一个人
but it hasn't actually become a person yet, right? 至少胎儿不能称为人
At least in the case of the fetus, 胎儿没有自我意识
it's not self-conscious. 没有理性
It's not rational. 无法交流
It's not able to communicate. 没有创造力  等等
It's not creative and so forth. 这些要之后才能有
That comes later. 这是A阶段
All right, so there's Phase A. 这是B阶段
There's Phase B. 这是C阶段
There's Phase C. 这就是通常情况
That's the normal situation, 通常案例
the normal case. 肉体存在
The body exists. 在人格功能开始前就已经工作一段时间了
It functions for a while before the P-functioning begins. 之后不久
And then after a while 肉体功能和人格功能同时运转
the body and P-functioning are both going on. 再过不久  两者都停止
And then after a while they stop. 通常情况下
In the normal case, 要是遇到车祸什么的
I'm in a car accident or whatever it is, 我的肉体功能停止
and my body stops functioning, 人格功能也停止
my personality stops functioning, 那就成为一具尸体了
and you're left with a corpse. 我何时死亡
When did I die? 一般认为我死于这个时候
Well, the natural suggestion is to say I died here. 我画个星号
I'll draw my little star, an asterisk. 通常情况下
In the normal case, 当我肉体停止运转时
I die when my body stops functioning, 肉体功能停止  我就死了
in terms of the body functions. 同时人格功能也停止了
And it stops functioning in terms of the personality functions. 这就是通常的情况
That's the normal case. 但我们仍然可以提出一个哲学问题
But we could still ask the philosophical question. 既然在这一时刻  我们
Since what we had here was 同时失去一般化的肉体功能
simultaneously losing both the ordinary body functioning 以及个性化的人格功能
and the special personality functioning, 哪一个损失更关键
which loss was the crucial one 哪个决定我的死亡时刻
in terms of defining the moment of my death? 我们等一下再来考虑这个问题
Let's come back to that question in a minute. 首先  我问个略微不同的问题
First, I want to ask a slightly different question. 我何时停止存在
When did I cease to exist? 或者换种稍微不同的说法
Or, to put it slightly differently, 在阶段C
do I exist during Phase C, 当肉体停止工作的时候  我还存在吗
when the body has stopped functioning? 无论从肉体功能还是人格功能出发
Both in terms of body functions and personality functions, 我都只是个尸体  我还存在吗
I'm just a corpse. Do I exist? 我们假设
Now, let's suppose 我们相信人格同一性的人格理论
we believe the personality theory of personal identity. 根据人格同一性的人格理论
According to the personality theory of personal identity, 判断一个人是不是我
for something to be me, 需要拥有同样的人格
it's got to have the very same personality, 同样的演变过程
the same evolving, 同样的信念  愿望和目标等等
but still the same set of beliefs, desires, goals, so forth. 而在C阶段
Now, during period C, 没有东西拥有我的人格
there's nothing with my personality, right? 没人认为自己是雪莱·卡根
Nobody thinks they're Shelly Kagan. 没人拥有我的记忆  信念
Nobody has my memories, beliefs, 愿望和目标  等等
exact desires, goals and so forth. 非常清楚  根据人格理论
Pretty clearly then, on the personality theory, 在C阶段我不存在
I don't exist at Phase C. 这就是为什么我们很自然地
That's why it's natural to point to 把星号标记的时刻定为我死亡的时刻
the moment of star when we say that's when my death occurs. 在C阶段我不存在
I don't exist at Phase C. 但有趣的是
But interestingly, 若我们抛开人格理论  而采用肉体理论
things look rather different if we accept not the personality theory, 事情就大不一样了
but instead, the body theory. 根据人格同一性的肉体理论
After all, according to the body theory of personal identity, 判断一个人是我
for somebody to be me, 他要具有我的肉体
they've got to have my body. 根据肉体判断
Follow the body. 肉体同则人同
Same body, same person. 那么  看这边
All right, here we are. 这是我的尸体
Here's my corpse. 什么是尸体
What is a corpse? 其实就是肉体
It's a body, and indeed, 我的尸体就是我的肉体
my corpse is my body. 所以根据肉体判断就是指根据人来判断
So follow the body means follow the person. 尸体依然存在
The corpse is still around. 说明肉体依然存在
It means my body's still around. 也就说明我依然存在
It means I'm still around. 这就像说  我死了  但我依然存在
It's like, I mean, I'm dead, but I still exist. 像个冷笑话  不是吗
It's like a bad joke, right? 问题来了
So here's the question 课程一开始我就问
we started the class off with. 你能幸免一死吗
Will you survive your death? 你能在死后存在吗
Will you still exist after death? 我有一个好消息和一个坏消息
Well, there's good news and there's bad news. 因为我相信肉体理论
Since I believe in the body theory, 好消息是
the good news is, 你死后依旧会存在
you will exist after your death. 坏消息是你将以尸体的形式存在
The bad news is, you'll be a corpse. 这像一个冷笑话
That seems like a bad joke, 但若肉体理论是对的
but if the body theory is right, 这就完全不是笑话了
it's not a joke at all. 这只是在陈述事实
It's literally speaking the truth. 至少在我死后一段时间内  我仍然存在
I will exist, at least for a while. 最终肉体会腐败消亡
Eventually, the body will decay, 变成原子什么的  分解了
turn into atoms or whatever it is, decompose. 在我肉体消亡的那一刻
At that point my body no longer exists. 从那一刻起  我将不复存在
At that point, I will no longer exist. 但至少在一段时间内  在C阶段
But at least for a while, during period C, 肉体理论者会说
the body theorist should say, "没错  你是会存在
"Yeah, you will exist. 你会存在  但你并不是活的"
You will exist, but you won't be alive." 它只是再一次强调了
It just reinforces the point 我刚才一直讲的
that I was trying to make a few moments ago 重要的不是幸存本身
that the crucial question is not survival per se. 重要的是
The crucial question is, 你想从幸存中得到什么
what did you want out of survival? 其中之一
And one of the things 我想从幸存中得到的就是活着
I wanted out of survival was to be alive. 在肉体理论看来
All right, so on the body view, 我存在
I exist here, 但我没活着
but I'm not alive, 这没带给我有意义的东西
so it doesn't give me what matters. 在人格理论看来
On the personality view, 我成为尸体就是不存在了
I don't exist when I'm a corpse. 我们回过头来看这个问题
Let's go back and ask the question, 哪个因素决定生死
well, so which is it? 哪个是决定死亡时刻的重要因素
Which is the one that's the crucial for defining the moment of death, right? 即使在肉体理论看来
Even on the body view, 我存在也说明不了任何问题
the fact that I exist isn't good enough, 因为我没活着
because I'm not alive. 我想知道  什么时候我活着
I want to know, when am I alive? 什么时候我死了
When am I dead? 哪个是定义死亡时刻的重要因素
So what's crucial for defining the moment of death? 是肉体功能还是人格功能
Is it body functioning or personality functioning? 通过研究一般案例  我们得不到答案
Well, you can't tell by thinking about the normal case, 因为肉体功能和人体功能
because the B-functioning and the P-functioning 同时停止
stop at the same time. 但是假设我们画一个反常案例
But suppose we draw the abnormal case. 好了  C阶段这里还是尸体
All right, here's C with the corpse again. 在这段时间里  肉体功能在运转
Here's a period when the body's been functioning 就像这样
and goes like this. 这段时间里
Here's the period back here, A阶段  肉体在运转
A, where the body's been functioning, 人格功能还未启动
but the personality hasn't started yet. 假设
And now imagine, 这里是人格功能
so this is personality. 这里是肉体功能
Over here we've got body. 我们仍然把它叫B阶段
We'll call this B again. 我画的这个案例里
What I've done is imagine a case 人格功能先停止
in which the personality functioning stops 而肉体功能还没停止
before the rest of the body functioning stops. 很明显  这些阶段不以字母顺序排列了
Obviously, the phases are no longer in alphabetical order, 我在中间插入一个D阶段
but I introduced D in the middle 这样其它阶段标号不变
so the other phases could keep their same labels. 这个案例里
Well, here's a case where-- 肉体功能何时停止
When does the body functioning stop? 在D阶段末尾
End of D. 人格功能何时停止
When does the personality functioning stop? 在B阶段末尾
End of B. 现在有了两个时刻
So we've got two candidates. 星号一和星号二
Star one and star two. 星号一说"当人格功能停止时
Star one says "Death occurs 人就死了"
when personality stops functioning." 星号二说"不对不对
Star two says "No, no, 肉体功能停止  人就死了"
death occurs when bodily functioning stops." 问题是
Well, again, the question is, 我们应该持哪种看法
what should we say? 我想我们可能会
I think we're going to 得出两种结论
perhaps be drawn to different answers, 这取决于我们接受肉体理论
depending on whether we accept the body view 还是人格理论
or the personality view. 假设我们接受肉体理论
Suppose we accept the body view. 那么
Well, look, 对于"我何时死亡"这个问题
if the relevant question is "When do I die?" 由于我是个肉体
and I am a body, 那么简单明了  答案至少会是
then presumably the straightforward answer at least is going to be "肉体不再工作时  我就死了"
"I die when my body stops functioning." 具体是何时
When is that? 星号二
Star two. 在D阶段
During period D, 我仍然活着
I'm still alive, 但不再像人那样运转
but I'm no longer functioning as a person. 我不再是一个人
I am no longer a person. 这很有意思
That's interesting. 我不仅仍然存在
It's not just that I exist. 在C阶段
In C, 我以尸体的形式存在  但没活着
I can exist without being alive, as a corpse. 在D阶段
In D, 我活着  但我不是一个人
I'm alive but I'm not a person. 我们曾经讲过柏拉图
You recall when we talked about Plato, 介绍过基本属性的概念
we introduced the notion of essential properties. 如果我们接受肉体理论
And it seems that if we accept the body view, 我们会说  是不是一个人
we have to say being a person 不是我这类东西的基本属性
is not an essential property of being something like me. 我的基本属性里没有"我是人"这一条
It's not one of my essential properties that I'm a person. 我确实是个人
I am, in fact, a person, 但这并不永远成立
but that won't always be true of me. 当我变成一具尸体
When I'm a corpse, 我不再是一个人
I will cease to be a person, 但我仍然存在
but I'll still exist. 考虑这个特殊的例子
And if we have this unusual case 我大脑中风了
in which my brain has a stroke, 失去了高级认知功能
loses its higher cognitive functioning, 肉体仍能工作
so that the body continues 能呼吸  进食  人工呼吸等等
to breathe, eat, respirate, and so forth, 心脏仍跳动
the heart continues to pump, 只是不能思考  推理
but there's no longer anything capable of thinking, reasoning, 我们说  看  我还存在
we say, look, I still exist. 其实我还活着  只是不再是一个人
Indeed, I'm alive, but I'm not a person. 作为一个人
Being a person is something 是你能在一段时间内保持这种状态
you can go through for a period of time 然后不再继续下去
and cease to be. 同样  作为一个小孩
In the same way that being a child is a phase 也是你能在一段时间内保持这种状态
you can go through for a period of time 然后不再继续下去
and then cease to be. 作为教授也是在一段时间内
Or being a professor is a phase 保持这种状态  然后不再继续下去
you can go through and then cease to be. 你不做教授仍然可以存在
You can still exist without being a professor. 我不做教授仍然可以活着
I can still be alive without being a professor. 就肉体理论来说
Well, on the body view, 对于人是否以人的状态存在
we have to say the same thing 会得出同样的结论
about being a person. 是一个人  就是说我
Being a person is something that I, 也就是我的肉体  会持续工作一段时间
namely my body, can do for a while. 它不在A阶段工作
It wasn't doing it back here in A. 当然也不在C阶段工作
It certainly won't be doing it in C. 也不在D阶段工作
And it won't be doing it in D either. 就肉体理论来说  作为一个人
Being a person is something on the body view 只是我这个存在的一部分
that I am only for part of my existence and indeed, 只占据了我生命的部分时间
only for part of my life. 以肉体理论看来就是这样
Well, that's what it seems we should say on the body view. 那么如果我们接受人格理论又如何呢
What if instead we accept the personality theory? 接下来
Then-- 再提一点肉体理论的话题
actually, one more remark about the body view. 如果你接受肉体理论的这种说法
Notice that if you accept this account of what the body view 你会说死亡就是
should say about when death is, 死亡就是我不再活着
my death is when I cease to be alive. 我就是我的肉体
I am my body. 所以我在星号二时死去
So my death occurs at star two, 我失去了肉体功能
loss of bodily function. 然而作为人只是我的一个阶段
And being a person is just a phase. 如果我们这样说
Notice that if we say that, 就可能会产生一些误导
then there's something somewhat misleading about 误导我们这几周一直探讨的
the standard philosophical label for the problems 哲学问题的名称
we've been thinking about for the last couple of weeks. 我们一直在探讨人格同一性的本质
We've been worrying about the nature of personal identity. 也就是说
That is to say, 判断一个人是我的关键是什么
what is it for somebody to be me. 但是注意它的名称"人格同一性"
But notice that that label, "Personal identity," "人格同一性的问题"
"The problem of personal identity," 它似乎不言自明地假设了
seems to have built into it the assumption 不管谁是我  他都会是一个人
that whatever it is that's me is going to be a person. 是否是同一个人
Is it the same person or not? 现在  看来这个假设
Now, it turns out that that assumption, 名称中隐含的假设  可能是错的
standardly built into the usual label, may be false. 以肉体理论来看
On the body view, 即使完全不是一个人  仍然可能是我
it could still be me without being a person at all. 所以  时间中的存在问题
So the problem of existence through time, 或时间中的持续性问题
or persistence through time, 并不能称作人格同一性的问题
shouldn't be called the problem of personal identity, 而只能称作同一性的问题
but just the problem of identity. 这算是个补充说明
You know, a footnote. 现在来考虑人格理论
Turning now again to the personality theory. 如果我们接受人格同一性的人格理论
If we accept the personality theory of personal identity, 那么判断一个人是不是我
then for someone to be me, 就得要拥有同样的人格
they've got to have the same personality. 要让我存在
And so for something, for me to exist, 就得让我的人格存在
my personality has to be around. 所以我们说在这里
Well, that's why we said up here 在C阶段成为尸体以后
that in Phase C when there's a corpse, 我就不复存在了
I don't exist. 因为没有东西拥有我的人格
There's nothing with my personality. 作为一具尸体  我不再存在
As a corpse, I no longer exist. 对于D阶段  人格理论会如何解读呢
What should we say about Phase D, on the personality theory? 这里  我的肉体在运转
Here, my body is functioning, 但我的人格已经消失
but my personality has been destroyed. 没有东西拥有我的信念  记忆
Nothing exists with my beliefs, memories, 愿望  恐惧  价值观  目标  抱负
desires, fears, values, goals, ambitions. 如果我仅仅是我的人格
Well, if I just am my personality, 那么我在D阶段就不存在
then I don't exist in Phase D, 因为此时没有东西是我
because there's nothing there to be me, 没有东西具有我的人格
nothing with my personality. 根据人格理论  依据人格判断同一性
According to the personality theory, follow the personality. 在星号一人格消失了
The personality ended at star one. 所以我在D阶段不存在
So I don't exist at Phase D 这是人格理论的结论
on the personality theory. 好的  现在我不存在
Okay good. I don't exist. 那该怎么说  我还活着吗
But what should we say? Am I alive or not? 我的肉体依然活着
Well, my body's still alive, 那我们可以说我还活着吗
so should we say that I'm alive? 毕竟我的肉体直到星号二都还在运转
After all, my body's still functioning until star two. 在D阶段
During Phase D, 我的肉体还活着
my body seems to still be alive. 我们能说我还活着吗
Should we say that I'm alive? 这有点让人难以信服
That's rather hard to believe, right? 想想这句话背后的含义
Think about what it would mean to say that. 我们会说根据人格理论
We'd being saying on the personality theory, 我不存在了  但我还活着
I don't exist, but I'm alive. 这种组合很怪异
That seems like a very unpalatable combination of views. 我怎么可能在不存在的情况下活着
How can I be alive if I don't even exist? 所以看来我们只能说
So it seems we have to say 在D阶段  我没活着
I'm not alive during Phase D. 在D阶段我不但不存在
Not only don't I exist during Phase D, 而且也没活着
I'm not alive either. 但是  我的肉体还活着
Yet, my body is alive; 这就是完整的陈述
that's the whole stipulation. 看来人格理论
So it looks as though the personality theorist 需要区分"我活着"
is going to have to introduce a distinction between "my being alive", 和"我肉体活着"这两种情况
on the one hand, and "my body being alive", on the other. 但在通常情况下  看上面
In the normal case--up at the top, 这两种死亡同时发生
those two deaths occur simultaneously. 肉体和我同时停止存活
My body stops being alive at the very same moment that I cease being alive. 但是在反常案例中
But in the abnormal case, 人格理论会说
the personality theorist needs to say, 我也这样认为
or so it seems to me, 这两种死亡是分开的
the two deaths come apart. 肉体死亡发生在星号二
The death of my body occurs at star two. 我的死亡发生在星号一
My death occurs at star one. 注意肉体理论者
Notice that the body theorist 并不用区分这两者的差别
didn't need to draw that distinction. 因为如果说我就是我的肉体
Because if I just am my body, 那我就是我的肉体
then well, I'm just my body. 我的死亡就发生在我肉体死亡的时候
My death occurs at the death of my body. 但肉体理论者还是得区分一些东西
But still, even the body theorist needs a different distinction. 我们通过尸体的例子  已经学到
We already learned, by thinking about the corpse case, 仅仅存在  对肉体理论来说完全不够
that existence wasn't good enough for the body theorist. 他还要活着
He wanted to be alive. 在我考虑D阶段的时候
And when I think about Phase D, 我还想要强调一点
I want to say something more. 我仅仅活着也不够
It's not good enough that I'm alive. 我还要成为一个人
I want to be a person. 对我来说仅仅活着没有意义
So what matters to me isn't just being alive, 有意义的是回到B阶段
but being back here during Phase B. 那么我们就需要区分
So then it needs something like the same distinction. 不是区分我的死亡还是我肉体的死亡
Not, my death versus my body's death, 而是区分我这个人的死亡
but perhaps the death of the person, 如果我们可以这样说的话
if we could talk that way, 还是我肉体的死亡
versus the death of the body. 根据肉体理论
My death, for the body view, 我死亡发生在我肉体死亡之时
occurs with the death of my body. 但说到对我的意义
But in terms of what matters, 是在星号一时我这个人的死亡
it's the death of the person and that's star one, 而不是星号二
not star two. 现在我想花几分钟谈一谈
Now, I want to take just a couple of minutes 其它问题  或者至少是一些
and mention some other puzzles, or at least questions, 在物理主义者眼中值得思考的问题
worth thinking about in terms of the physicalist picture. 我只是简单介绍
I'm only going to point to them, 不去深入探讨
rather than explore them. 我们一直在关注生命结束的问题
But I've been focused on the question about the end of life. 但我们也会问  那生命的初始呢
We might ask as well, what about the beginning? 我们要如何解释A阶段
What should we say about Phase A, 当肉体已经在运转  发育
when the body is turned on and functioning, developing, 但是大脑还没开始工作
but the brain has not yet gotten to the stage at which it's turned on, 也可能还没有成型
or perhaps it hasn't yet become, 它还没开始像人那样运转
well, it's not doing person functioning. 没有在推理
It's not reasoning. 没有在交流
It's not communicating. 没有在思考
It's not thinking. 没有自觉
It's not aware. 没有意识
It's not conscious. 在A阶段大概就是这样
There's going to be some Phase A like that. 那么我们怎么解释这个阶段呢
What should we say about that phase? 我在这个阶段是否存在呢
Do I exist during that phase or don't I? 从肉体理论来看
Well, on the body view, 我认为我们应该说我是存在的
I suppose we should say I do exist. 作为人的存在是某个阶段的事
Being a person is a phase. 在A阶段  我们正处于
We happen to have, in Phase A, 作为人之前的存在阶段
the stage of my existence before I become a person. 当然
Of course, 如果我们采用肉体理论的最佳版本
if we take the version of the body view 我本质上就是
that what I am, essentially-- 我肉体上最关键的部分  我的大脑
the crucial body part--is my brain, 那么我们就需要把阶段A分成两个部分
then we really would have to subdivide A into two parts: A的早期和A的晚期
early A and late A. 在非常非常早期的A阶段
In very, very early A, 大脑甚至还没发育
the brain hasn't even developed yet. 它还没有构成
It hasn't been constructed yet. 如果说我仅仅是我的大脑的话
If I just am my brain, in effect, 那么在A的早期
then early A, 我并不存在
I don't exist yet. 直到A的晚期
Not until late A, 当大脑逐渐形成时  我才开始存在
when the brain gets put together, that I start to exist. 这有一些需要注意的地方
There is something there. 这是我的肉体
It's my body, 但在A的早期  它不是我
but it's not me, in early A. 这似乎有点难以置信
It seems sort of hard to believe, 但或许这才是正确的说法
but maybe that's the right thing to say. 在任何情况下  人格理论的拥护者
In any event, the fans of the personality theory 不用高兴得太早
shouldn't be laughing too hard, 因为他们很可能也得出相似的结论
because they're going to have to say something similar. 请记住  如果你接受人格理论
Remember, if you accept the personality theory, 根据人格判断同一性
follow the personality. 那么没有同样的人格
Don't got the same personality? 我就不存在了
I cease to exist. 所以根据人格理论
That's why we said on the personality theory, 我们随着时间发展  一旦人格功能停止
as we went ahead in time, once the P-functioning stops, 我们就不存在了
I don't exist anymore. 这就是人格理论者的主张
That's what the personality theorist said. 但我们也可以开始时就这样说
But we can raise that same point going backwards. 基于人格理论  我什么时候开始存在
When did I begin to exist on the personality theory? 直到我持续的
Not until my continuing, 不断演变的人格开始出现时
evolving through time 我才存在
personality started. 这在A阶段开始时显然不成立
And that certainly wasn't true way back at the start of A, 那时受精卵刚开始分裂  繁殖
as the fertilized egg first begins to split and multiply, 分化并且形成器官
subdivide and make organs. 直到很长时间以后
It's a good long time 才出现一些精神活动
till any kind of mental processing occurs at all. 所以根据人格理论
So on the personality theory, 我在受精卵形成时并不存在
I did not exist when that fertilized egg came into being, 当卵子和精子结合
when the egg and the sperm joined. 根据人格理论  那还不是我
That's still not me, on the personality theory. 很明显  这与堕胎的道德问题有联系
Clearly, these issues are relevant for thinking about the morality of abortion. 我不打算在这儿继续深入探讨下去
I'm not going to pursue them here, 但是你们可以看到它们之间的关联
but you can see how they'd be relevant. 如果我们需要考虑
If we want to worry about when, 堕胎在什么情况下是合理的
if ever, is an abortion justified, 那我们就必须清楚
it might be worth getting clear on, 像我们这样的生命是何时开始的
when do creatures like us start? 很有趣的话题  但是我们只提一下
Interesting question, but having noted it, 现在我们把它放到一边  请问
let me put it aside. Ah, question. 这个问题是
The question was: "是否可以说在A阶段早期
Would it be plausible to say that at the early phases of A, 严格来说  肉体还没工作
strictly speaking,  the body's not functioning, 因为它还完全依赖母亲的肉体
because it's so utterly dependent on help from the mother's body. 需要母亲来提供呼吸
It needs the mother for respiration, 营养  等等"
for nutrients, and so forth and so on." 这是个很好的问题
That's a great question. 就是因为这类的问题
And it's the sort of question 我才会说
and the reason why I said 我只想简略介绍一下而不想深究
I wanted to glance in this direction without really going there. 这就是个很好的例子
That's a nice example of it. 我们可能会问
We might wonder, 我们什么时候才能说
just when should we say 肉体机能真正开始运转呢
the body functioning really does start? 它有多少独立性呢
How much independence does it take? 我们可以另外画一幅
We could draw yet another picture 生命从有到无的完全不同的示意图
of a different way a life could come to an end. 想象一下生命即将终结的肉体
Imagine a body towards the end of life, 由生命维持设备维持
on life support machinery. 我们认为它是否还在运转呢
Do we want to say the body's functioning or not functioning? 这是个难题
Well, hard cases there. 那么同理
So similarly, 在最初阶段  我们也不好下结论
there's going to be hard cases about the very, very early stages. 当然这些都是好问题
And although they're great questions 我也愿意在课后和你们继续探讨
and I'm happy to discuss them with you further, 但是现在我不想说太多
I don't want to pursue them here and now. 我想提出另一个不同的问题
I want to point to a different question that-- 我认为它是一个非常重要的问题
I think it's a crucially important question. 我不愿意继续讨论刚才那些问题
My unwillingness to discuss them 并不是因为我觉得它们不重要
isn't a matter of my judgment that they're unimportant, 我只是希望能够大致保持进度
just trying to keep at least roughly on track. 让我们回到生命结束的时候
Come back to the end of life. 再考虑一下D阶段
Think some more about Phase D and ask. 好的  那么这时候
All right, so this is something that's-- 如果人格功能毁坏了
If the personality function's been destroyed, 不能恢复  也不能修复
can't be recovered, can't be fixed, 但是肉体功能正常运转
but the rest of the bodily functioning is still going on. 心脏在跳动  肺在呼吸  等等
The heart's pumping, the lungs are breathing and so forth. 肉体还可以消化食物
The body's able to digest food. 我们在D阶段  好比说
There we are in Phase D, in something like, perhaps, 成了永久植物人
persistent vegetative state. 现在  有一个人
Now, imagine that we've got somebody 需要做心脏移植手术
who needs a heart transplant 或者是肾脏移植  肝脏移植
or a kidney transplant, liver transplant. 而且组织相容性测试显示这具肉体很符合
And tissue compatibility tests reveal this body's compatible, 是合适的捐赠源
suitable donor. 我们能否取出他的器官呢
Can we take it or not? 首先我们需要回答
Well, you might have thought we answer that "我还活着吗"
by asking "Am I still alive?" 那么  把我心脏取出来
Well, rip out the heart, 就会杀了我  不是吗
it's going to kill me, right? 所以如果我还活着
So if I'm still alive, 你们便不能那样做
you can't do that sort of thing. 这会杀了我
It's killing me. 但是  如果我们同意人格理论
Well, if we take the personality theory, 我们会说  我的肉体还活着
we have to say, my body's still alive, 但我没活着
but I'm not still alive. 这就是我们的结论
That's what we seem to want to say. 如果我没活着
If I'm not still alive, 那么杀死的就不是我  而是我的肉体
all we'd be killing isn't me, but my body. 所以我们现在必须问
So now we have to ask, 什么人或者什么东西有权利活着
who or what has the right to life? 我有活着的权利吗
Do I have the right to life, 还是我的肉体有活着的权利
or does my body have the right to life? 我们可能会说  我当然有活着的权利
Or we might say, look, certainly I have a right to life. 但是除了我以外
But is it also true that in addition to me, 我的肉体也有活着的权利吗
my body has a right to life? 在D阶段取出器官符合道德吗
Is there something immoral about removing the organs during Phase D 那时人已经死了但肉体还活着
when the person is dead and the only thing that's still alive is the body? 不要太快下结论
Don't be too quick to assume the answer that's got to be yeah, 说它是错的
it's still wrong. 毕竟  根据肉体理论
After all, on the body view, 我成为尸体时也是存在的
I still exist when I'm a corpse. 但是当然  摘走我心脏没什么不对
But of course, there's nothing wrong about taking my heart, 即使我还存在
even though I still exist. 也只不过是具尸体而已
After all, I'm a corpse. 同样
Why not then say, 我们何不直接说即使我的肉体还活着
similarly, even though my body's still alive, 但是这个人已经死了
nothing wrong about removing the heart 所以摘走心脏没什么不对
if the person is dead. 至少  人格理论为这种说法敞开了大门
At least, the personality view opens the door to saying that. 那么肉体理论怎么看
What about the body view? 根据肉体理论
On the body view, of course, 我只是我的肉体
I just am my body. [在D阶段]我还活着
I'm still alive. 那这么做就不对吗
Now is it wrong? 根据肉体理论
Just like, with the body view, 我们会说
we wanted to say, "活着并没有听上去那么好"
"Being alive is not all it's cracked up to be," 真正的问题并不是
the real question is not, "就肉体理论来讲我是否还活着"
"Am I alive, on the body view?" 这个问题其实是
An interesting question is, "我还作为人活着吗"
"Am I still a person?" 的确  尽管根据肉体理论我还活着
And indeed, although I'm alive on the body view, 但我已经不是一个人了
I'm not still a person. 也许我不被杀死的权利没有那么不容置疑
Maybe it's not so much that I have a right not to be killed. 也许我只有权不被剥夺的人的形态
Maybe I have a right not to be depersonified, 人格有权不被消灭
to have my personality destroyed. 如果这才是真正的权利  那么
If that's the real right, then again, 在D阶段摘走心脏就没什么不妥
there'd be nothing wrong with removing the heart in D. 很显然  这也是个非常非常重要
Well, again, clearly, very, very important 且非常非常复杂的问题
and very, very complicated questions. 我们点到为止  现在不考虑这些问题了
But having gestured toward them, I want to put them aside. 我想提出另一个的问题
Instead, I want to raise the following question. 我刚刚花了半小时一直在讲
So look, what I've just been talking about for the last half hour or so 我们需要弄明白
is the fact that we've got to get clear, 死亡的本质
in thinking about the nature of death, 死亡的时刻到底是
as to whether or not the crucial moment is the moment 人格功能消失的时刻
when the personality functioning stops 还是肉体功能停止的时刻
or the moment when the bodily functioning stops. 当我们考察反常案例时
As we saw by thinking about the abnormal case, 这些死亡可以分开  所以就有了D阶段
these things can come apart and we can have Phase D. 但在通常情况下
But in the normal case, 它们是同时发生的
they happen at the same moment. 我刚才做了很多区分
And I've drawn a lot of different distinctions about what would you say 站在人格理论的角度怎样解释
if you're a personality theorist to deal with this? 站在肉体理论的角度又怎样解释
What would you say if you're a body theorist to deal with this? 我们区分了很多不同的说法
Having drawn all those distinctions, 我将会越过这些概念
I'm going to just ride roughshod over them 把它们放到一边
and put them aside. 现在我们假设
And let's just suppose 我们面临的是正常情况
that we're dealing with the normal case, 也就是肉体功能和
where the body functioning stops at the same time 人格功能同时停止运转
as the personality functioning stops. 那么死亡究竟是什么
So what is death? 何时是死亡的时刻
What's the moment of death? 从物理主义者的角度看  什么是死亡
What is it to die, on the physicalist view? 乍一看
Well, at first glance, 你可能会觉得答案是
you might think the answer is, "看  你存在  你活着"
"Look, you exist, you're alive, whatever it is--" 正如我刚才所说  我现在要放宽要求
as I said, I'm just going to be loose now, 忽略刚才那些仔细区分的概念
I'm going to put aside all the careful distinctions I just drew-- 只要我的肉体还具有人体功能
I'm still around as long as 我就活着
my body is P-functioning. 而当我的肉体没有人体功能了
And when my body's not P-functioning, 我就死了
I'm not still around. 或者说我不存在  没活着  不再是人
Either I don't exist or I'm not alive or I'm not a person, 随你怎么说
whichever precise way we have to put it. 这似乎是物理主义者会自然得出的结论
That seems like the natural proposal for the physicalist to make. 死亡就是不再具有人体功能
To be dead is to no longer be P-functioning. 但这不完全正确
But that can't quite be right. 因为想象一下  别只想像
Because imagine, don't just imagine, 请好好回忆一下
just remember what happened to you 昨天凌晨3:20左右你在做什么
last night around 3:20 a.M. 假设凌晨3:20
Let's just suppose that at 3:20 a.M. 你在睡觉  而且此时
you were asleep and indeed, 你没做梦
you weren't dreaming. 没在思考
You weren't thinking. 没有推理
You weren't reasoning. 没有跟人交流
You weren't communicating. 没有在回想
You weren't remembering. 没在制定计划
You weren't making plans. 也没运用创造力
You weren't being creative. 你没在运用人体功能
You were not engaged in P-functioning. 如果我们接受这个简单直白的观点
If we take this simple straightforward view and say 即  没运用人体功能你就死了
you're dead when you're not P-functioning anymore, 那你当时已经死了
then you were dead, 昨晚你不停地死去活来
on and off and on and off, last night. 显然  这听起来肯定不对
Well, that clearly doesn't seem to be the right thing to say. 所以我们要重新定义一下人体功能
So we're going to have to revise the P-functioning 或者由人体功能结束而定义的死亡
or the end of P-functioning theory of death. 我们得修改一下这个理论
We're going to have to revise that theory. 我们需要完善它
We're going to have to refine it 以更好解释
to deal with the obvious fact 当你既无意识也没做梦时  你并没有死
that you're not dead all the times when you're unconscious and not dreaming. 但是当我们完善这个理论时
But refining in just the right way 我们将会得出一个
is going to turn out to be 出人意料的不那么直白的结果
a surprisingly not straightforward matter, 至少我这么觉得
at least that's how it seems to me. 不管怎么说  我们下次再讨论这个问题
At any rate, that's the question we'll turn to next time. 



 Chapter 14: 死亡的本质（续）：请相信你将死去


上节课结束时我们提出了这么一个问题
Last time we ended with the following puzzle or question. 如果我们说要成为一个人
If we say that to be a person 就要有运行人体功能的肉体
is to be a P-functioning body, 那么我们似乎只能得出这么个结论
it seems then as though we have to conclude 即  当你没有运行人体功能时
that when you're not P-functioning, 你就是死的
you're dead. 那就是说  你作为一个人是死的
That is, you're dead as a person. 之前我们区分了肉体的死亡
Previously, we distinguished between the death of my body 和作为人的死亡
and my death as a person; 现在我们来着重研究作为人的死亡
let's focus on my death as a person. 如果我没有运行人体功能
If I'm not P-functioning, 我们是不是只能说我死了
do we have to then say I'm dead? 那似乎是定义死亡的最自然的方式
Well, that may seem to be the most natural way to define death, 但不可取
but it's not an acceptable approach. 因为它紧接着就会推出
Because it would follow then, 当我睡着的时候也是死的
that when I'm asleep, I'm dead. 只要不是同时
Well, not during those times, 比方说  睡着了又在做梦
perhaps, when I'm dreaming while I'm asleep. 不过想想一个熟睡的  无梦的夜晚
But think of the various periods during the night 的各个不同时段
in which you are in a deep, deep dreamless sleep. 你并没有在思考
You're not thinking. 也没有规划什么
You're not planning. 没有与人交流
You're not communicating. 我们来假设一下  也许
Let's just suppose, as seems likely, 在睡眠的某个时刻
that none of the P-functioning is occurring, 根本没有人体功能在运作
at some point during sleep. 我们能说你死了吗
Should we say then that you're dead? 显然那样说是不对的
Well, that's clearly not the right thing to say. 所以我们需要从物理层面修正一下
So we need to revise our account of what it is 一个人死亡的具体含义
on the physicalist picture to say that you're dead. 死亡到底意味着什么
What is it to be dead? 不可能只是不再运行人体功能
It can't just be a matter of not P-functioning. 有一种可能性是
Well, one possibility would be to say, 问题不在于你是否运行人体功能
the question is not whether you are P-functioning. 你不运行人体功能也没问题
It's okay if you're not P-functioning, 只要这是暂时的就行
as long as your not P-functioning is temporary. 如果你能重新运行人体功能
If you will P-function again, 如果你以前运行过人体功能
if you have been P-functioning in the past 未来又还会再运行
and you will be P-functioning again in the future, 我说的P功能是指人体功能
P-functioning for person functioning, 如果你未来还会再运行人体功能
you will be P-functioning again in the future, 那么你就没死
then you're not dead. 那至少是一个进步
Well, that's at least an improvement, 因为我们接着会说  "瞧
because then we say, "look, 当你睡着的时候
while you're asleep, 虽然人体功能没有运行
even though there's no P-functioning going on, 但这只是暂时的
the lack of P-functioning is temporary, 所以你仍旧活着"
so you're still alive." 但我觉得那也不太说得通
But I think that won't quite do either. 我们假设审判日到了
Let's suppose that come Judgment Day, 上帝会让死人复活
God will resurrect the dead. 我们就假设一下人格同一性的正确理论
And let's just suppose the correct theory of 是让我们抛开一切
personal identity is such as to put aside any worries 之前所讨论到过的
we might have along with van Inwagen, 范·因瓦根的忧虑
that we discussed previously, 也就是在复活日
as to whether or not on resurrection day 复活的那个人究竟是不是你
that would really be you or not. 假设是你
Suppose it would be you. 那么上帝让这个死人复活
So God will resurrect the dead. 到了审判日
Judgment Day comes. 死人复活了
The dead are resurrected. 现在他们正在运行人体功能
Well, now they're P-functioning. 结果  在这段时间
So it turns out that during that period in which 他们是死亡的
they were dead, 但他们只是暂时停止运行人体功能
they were only temporarily not P-functioning. 但若死亡意味着永久地停止人体功能
But if death means permanent cessation of P-functioning, 那就说明他们根本不是真死了
then it turns out the dead weren't really dead after all. 他们只是暂时停止运行人体功能
They were only temporarily not P-functioning, 就像我们在睡眠状态中
just like we are temporarily not P-functioning 暂时停止运行人体功能
when we're asleep. 那好像也不太对吧
Well, that doesn't seem right either. 审判日这天  上帝让死人复活
On Judgment Day, God resurrects the dead. 这可不是说他简单地唤醒了
It's not that He simply wakes up 那些沉睡着的人们
those in a deep, deep sleep. 所以说死亡就是讨论
So the proposal that death is a matter of 人体功能究竟是永久停止还是暂时的
permanent cessation of P-functioning versus temporary, 貌似这样是行不通的
that doesn't seem like it's going to do the trick. 那我们还能怎么解释呢
But what else do we have up our sleeves? 这儿还有另一种说法
Here's a different proposal 我觉得它也许会更说得通
that I think is probably closer to the right account. 我们可能会说  看  当你睡着以后
We might say, look, while you're asleep, 你的确没有运行人体功能
it's true that you're not P-functioning. 比如说  你就没在做乘法
For example, you're not doing your multiplication tables. 但尽管你没有运行人体功能
But although you are not engaged in P-functioning, 似乎还是可以说
it does seem true to say 你是能够运行人体功能的
that you still can P-function. 你仍旧是能够做乘法的
You still could do your multiplication tables. 尽管你没在说法语
Although it's not true that you are speaking French-- 假设你会说法语的话
let's suppose that you know how to speak French-- 你睡着的时候
it's still true of you while you're asleep 也还是有说法语的能力的
that you can or could speak French. 我们是怎么知道的呢
How do we know this? 我们只要把你叫醒就可以了
Well, all we have to do is just wake you up. 把你叫醒  问你
We wake you up and we say, "约翰  3乘以3是多少"
"Hey John, what's three times three?" 等你骂够我们之后
And after you stop swearing at us, 你就会说  "答案是9"
you say, "Well, it's nine." 或者我们跟你说
Or we say, "琳达  用法语说这个那个动词"
"Linda, hey, conjugate such and such a verb in French." 你也能说出来
And you can conjugate it. 即便你在睡觉的时候
Even though you were not engaged in P-functioning 没有运行人体功能
while you were asleep, 但当你睡觉的时候
it's still true that while you were asleep, 你仍旧有能力运行人体功能
you had the ability to engage in P-functioning. 能力不一定要变成现实
Abilities aren't always actualized. 你现在正在运行人体功能
Your P-functioning is actualized now, 因为你在思考
because you're engaged in thought, 但你不在思考的时候
but you don't lose the ability 你也不会失去
to think during those moments 思考的能力
when you're not thinking. 假设我们说  那样的话
Suppose we say then 作为一个人那样活着
that to be alive as a person 就意味着有运行人体功能的能力
is to be able to engage in P-functioning. 而死亡
And to be dead then, 则意味着不再具有这种能力
is to be unable to engage in P-functioning. 为什么不再具有呢
Why are you unable? 很可能
Well, presumably 由于不管你的大脑
because whatever cognitive structures 以什么样的认知结构
it takes in your brain 来保证人体功能的运行
to underwrite the ability to P-function, 这些认知结构都已经被损坏了
those cognitive structures have been broken, 再也不工作了
so they no longer work. 当你死亡
It's--When you're dead, 你的大脑也损坏了
your brain is broken. 不止是你不再运行人体功能
It's not just that you're not engaged in P-functioning, 而且是你不再有能力运行人体功能
you're no longer able to engage in P-functioning. 这样似乎终于能说清楚睡觉那个例子了
That, at least, seems to handle the case of sleep properly. 尽管你没有在运行人体功能
Although you're not engaged in P-functioning, 只要你有运行人体功能的能力
you're able to, 你就仍然活着
so you're still alive. 就举审判日复活的人的例子吧
Take the dead who will be resurrected on Judgment Day. 尽管他们之后被赋予运行人体功能的能力
Although they will be engaged in P-functioning later on, 但他们现在却并不能运行
it's not true right now that they can engage in P-functioning. 他们的肉体和大脑都损坏了
Their bodies and brains are broken 直到上帝来复活他们
until God fixes them. 所以他们是死亡的
So they're dead. 好了
All right, 这貌似是正确答案
that seems to give the right answer and, 事实上  它也的确给了我们一些启示
in fact, it gives us some guidance 关于如何思考其它纠结的问题
how to think about some other puzzling cases. 比如昏迷的人
Take somebody who is in a coma, 也没有运行人体功能
not engaged in P-functioning. 我们要规定一下  他们的肉体还活着
Their body, let's stipulate, is still alive. 他们的心脏还在跳动
Their heart's still beating, 他们的肺也还在呼吸  等等
the lungs are still breathing and so forth. 但我们要问
But we wonder, 那个人真的还活着吗
is the person still alive? 那个人还存在吗
Does the person still exist? 他们并没有在运行人体功能
they're not engaged in P-functioning. 这是很明显的
That's pretty clear. 我们想知道的是
We want to know, 他们还能运行吗
can they engage in P-functioning? 此时此刻
Now, at this point 我们会想知道更多关于人体的内部结构
we'd want to know more about the underlying mechanics 关于接下来会发生什么事
about what's gone on in the case of the coma. 如果我下面说的是正确的
If the following is the right description, 那么也许我们应该说  他们还活着
then we perhaps should say they're still alive. 当某人睡着的时候
Look, when somebody's asleep, 我们要做些事
we need to do something to, 来叫醒他们
in effect, wake them up, 让他们的机能再次运行
something to turn the functioning back on. 他的认知结构始终存在
The cognitive structures are still there, 但运行机能的开关是关着的
but the on-off switch is switched to off. 也许这就像
Perhaps that's what it's like 某人在昏迷中
when somebody's in a coma, 或者至少是某种类型的昏迷
or perhaps at least certain types of comas. 当然  在人昏迷的时候
Of course, to turn the on-off switch on is harder 打开开关会更困难一些
when somebody's in a coma. 更加...
It's a bit more-- 我们继续讲那个开关的比喻
to continue with the metaphor of the on-off switch-- 好像那开关不止是关着
as though not only is the switch turned to off, 而且还上了锁
there's a lock on the switch. 所以我们不能按照常规去打开开关
And so we can't turn the switch on in the normal way. 比方说  推推那个昏迷的人
Pushing the person in the coma 并说  "吉米  醒醒"
and saying, "Wake up, Jimmy" 这么做可不管用
doesn't do the trick. 不过不管怎么说
But for all that, 就算那个开关被卡住了
although the on-off switch may be stuck in off, 只要大脑深层的认知结构
if the underlying cognitive structures of the brain 仍旧有能力
are such as to still make it true that, 将开关重新打开
flip the on switch back to on 且这个人仍能够运行人体功能
and the person can still engage in cognitive P-functioning, 那么也许就应该说  这个人还活着
maybe the right thing to say is the person's still alive. 第二种昏迷情况
Coma case two. 我不太确定这究竟算不算是昏迷
I'm not sure whether this really should be called a coma. 我不了解生物学和药学的细节
I don't know the biological and medical details. 不过可以想象一下
But imagine that what's gone on 保持认知结构运作的
is there's been decay of the brain structures 大脑结构正在腐烂
that underwrite the cognitive functioning. 于是现在就不只是开关关着
So now it's not just that the on-off switch is stuck in off, 连大脑也没法
the brain's no longer capable 再运行那些高级指令的人体功能了
of engaging in these higher order P-functions. 有可能这是一种持续的植物人状态
This might be a persistent vegetative state 基本上不可能再恢复意识了
with no possibility of turning it on, even in principle. 对于这样一个人我们可能会认为
Of such a person we might say, 他不再具有运行人体功能的能力
they're no longer capable of P-functioning. 这样的话  也许正确的说法是
And then perhaps the right thing to say is 这个人再也不存在了
the person no longer exists, 作为一个人  他不再存在了
so they no longer exist as a person, 虽然他的肉体还活着
even if the body is still alive. 目前为止都没问题
So far, so good. 但想想更复杂的情况
Here's a harder case to think about. 假设我们让某人
Suppose we put somebody 处于一种假死状态
in a state of suspended animation, 冷却他们的身体
cool their body down 于是各种新陈代谢过程停止
so that the various metabolic processes come to an end. 不再继续了
They stop. 我敢肯定你们知道
As I'm sure you know, 我们可以将各种各样的低等生物体
we're able, with various lower organisms, 置于假死状态
to put them in a state of suspended animation 然后惊人的是
and then, the amazing thing is, 如果你适当地将它们加热
if you heat them back up again properly, 它们就会重新开始运作
they start functioning again. 但我们不能对人类做这样的事
Now, we can't do that yet with humans. 不过至少这不能说明
But it doesn't jump out at us, at least, 假死是不可能的事情
that that should be an impossibility. 所以假设我们最终学会了
So suppose we eventually learn 如何对人类做这样的事
how to do this with humans. 现在  假设我们把拉里
And now, suppose we take Larry 置于某种假死状态下
and put him in a state of suspended animation. 他死了吗
Is he dead? 我们中的大多数人觉得
Well, most of us don't feel comfortable 说他死了不太对劲
saying that he's dead. 就像我们说...
Just like we don't feel comfortable saying that the-- 我假设我们也可以对果蝇做这种事
I suppose we could do this with a fruit fly. 我不知道可以不可以
I don't know whether we can or can't. 就当可以吧
Suppose we can. 假设我们对果蝇做了同样的事
Suppose we do it with a fruit fly. 说果蝇死了也不太对劲
We don't feel comfortable saying the fruit fly's dead. 它只是处于一种假死状态
Rather, it's in a state of suspended animation. 类似地
Well, similarly then, 我们可能也不愿意说拉里死了
perhaps we wouldn't want to say that Larry is dead. 而死亡所描述的那种"破坏"
And the "Brokenness" account of death 也让我们觉得拉里没死
allows us to say Larry's not dead. 让我们保持
The structures in the brain 运行人体功能的能力的
which would underwrite the ability 大脑结构
to engage in P-functioning, 并没有由于假死而被破坏
they're not destroyed by suspended animation. 所以也许与之相关
So perhaps in the relevant sense, 这个人仍旧可以运行人体功能
the person can still engage in P-functioning, 所以他没死
so they're not dead. 这就够了
Good enough. 不过从另一方面说
On the other hand, 这可能不是很有说服力
it doesn't seem so plausible, 直觉上来讲
it doesn't seem intuitively right to say 说他们活着好像也不太对劲
that they're alive. 拉里在假死状态下
Is Larry alive 也仍然是活着的吗
when he's in a state of suspended animation? 不  他好像也不是活着的
No. It seems like he's not alive either. 这就有点纠结了  是吧
Now that's a bit puzzling, right? 好像我们需要...
It's as though we need-- 通常情况下  我们认为
Normally, we think that look, 你要么活着  要么死了
either you're alive or you're dead. 只有这两种可能
The two possibilities exhaust the possibilities. 但想想看  假死状态意味着
But thinking about suspended animation suggests 我们可能真的需要第三种可能
that we may actually need a third category, 即假死  既不是活着  也没有死
suspended--neither alive nor dead. 好啦
Well, all right, 如果我们真引入第三种可能
if we do introduce a third possibility-- 我也不知道这样对不对
I'm not sure this is the right thing. 并不清楚该怎么说
It's not clear what's the right 假死才最好
or best thing to say about suspended animation. 不过至少这种可能性似乎还蛮受欢迎的
But at least that doesn't seem like an unattractive possibility. 如果有三种可能
If there are three possibilities-- 死亡  活着  假死  要定义死亡
dead, alive, or suspended--to be dead, 我们还是可以说  你得肉体损坏
we could still say you've got to be broken, 无法运行人体功能才行
incapable of P-functioning. 假设你肉体没损坏
Suspended isn't broken. 那你只是假死而已
It's just suspended. 但怎么才算活着呢
But then what do you need to be alive? 除了肉体不能损坏
In addition to not being broken, 你还得怎么样才算活着呢
what do you need to be alive? 最初我们试过这么说
Well, the initially tempting thing to say is 你不仅得肉体完好
not only aren't you broken, 而且要实实在在地运行人体功能
but you're actually engaged in P-functioning. 但如果我们这样说
But if we say that, 我们就回到了
then we're back to saying 说睡着的人不是活人的那种说法
that somebody who's asleep isn't really alive. 那个好像也不对
That doesn't seem right either. 所以我们要区分假死和活着
So we need some account to distinguish between 就得再多一些描述条件
suspended animation and out--and out being alive. 我也不大确定该如何划分这个界线
And I'm not quite sure how to draw that line. 所以这个就交给你们了
So I'll leave that to you 你们自己去研究这个难题吧
as a puzzle to work on on your own. 撇开这个难题不谈
That puzzle aside, 我觉得好像我们一旦变成物理主义者
it seems to me that once we become physicalists, 死亡就没有什么
there's nothing especially deep 特别的深意或是神秘之处了
or mysterious about death. 肉体能够以各种方式
The body is able to function 维持运作
in a variety of ways. 当某些低等的生物机能运作时
When some of those lower biological functions are occurring, 这个肉体就是活着的
the body's alive. 一切都很顺利的话
When all goes well, 这个肉体就可以具备
the body is also capable of engaging 运行其人体功能的高级指令的能力
in higher order personal P-functioning. 于是这就成为了一个人
And then you've got a person. 当肉体开始损坏
The body begins to break, 人体功能开始衰退
you get the loss of P-functioning. 到那时
At that point, 你就不再像一个人那样存在
you no longer exist as a person. 当肉体损坏得更厉害
When the body breaks some more, 你不再运行生物机能  或者说肉体机能
you get the loss of biological or B-functioning, 你就死了
and then the body dies. 死亡没什么特别神秘的
There's nothing especially mysterious about death, 虽然从科学角度来说
although there may be a lot of details 可能还有许多细节需要研究
to work out from a scientific point of view. 那么使生物机能运行的
What are the particular processes 特殊过程是什么呢
that underwrite biological functioning? 使人格机能或人体机能运行的
What are the particular processes 特殊过程是什么呢
that underwrite personality or person functioning? 不过
Still, 关于死亡的问题
there are a couple of claims about death 一向有着各种各样的说法
that get made frequently enough, 说死亡是这样那样得神秘
about death being mysterious in one way or another, 他们说死亡很特别的  独一无二
that I want--or special or unique-- 我想要关注于这一点
that I want to focus on. 实际上  从物理主义者的观点来看
In effect, from the physicalist point of view, 尽管死亡是独一无二的
although death is unique 因为它是生命的各种机能
because it comes at the end 运行的终点
of this lifetime of various sorts of functions, 但也并没什么好困惑的
there's nothing especially puzzling, 没什么特别神秘的
nothing especially mysterious, 没什么特别不寻常
nothing especially unusual 或是难以理解的
or hard to grasp about it. 但仍有少数观点
But there are a handful of claims 是这么看待死亡的
that people make about death 他们认为
suggesting that they think, 并且他们觉得所有人都这么认为
and they think we all think, 认为死亡是神秘的  独一无二的
that death is mysterious or unique 或是难以理解的
or hard to comprehend. 我想检验一下其中几个观点
I want to examine a couple of these. 其中一个我准备晚点再说
One of them I'll get to later; 万一今天说不完
if not later today, 那就下节课再说吧
then next lecture. 有时候人们说
Sometimes people say 我们孑然一身地死亡
that we die alone 或者每个人都是孑然一身地死亡
or everybody dies alone. 而这是某种
And this is something-- 这是要表达某种
This is supposed to express some 对死亡的本质以及独特性
deep insight into the nature 的深刻领悟
and uniqueness of death. 所以就算我们可以一起吃饭
So although we're able to eat meals together, 可以一起度假
we're able to go on vacations together 还可以一起上课
and take classes together, 死亡却是我们必须独自经历的事情
death is something we all have to do by ourselves. 这是一种说法
That's the claim. 我们孑然一身地死亡
We all die alone. 我等会儿再来探讨这种说法
That's a claim I'll come back to. 我首先想深入研究的是
What I want to look at first 不知怎么地
is the suggestion that somehow, 在某些层面上
at some level, 根本没人愿意承认
nobody really believes 他们终究会死亡
they're going to die at all. 我们已经区分过
Now, having distinguished between 我们所说的肉体死亡
what we've called the death of the body 和人格死亡
and the death of the person, 而人到底会不会死亡
the question whether or not 便是一个需要弄清的事情
you're going to die needs to be distinguished. 你是否相信你会死亡
The question whether or not you believe 也是需要弄清的
you're going to die needs to be distinguished. 如果有人说
If somebody says, "你知道的  没人真得相信他们会死"
"You know, nobody really believes they're going to die," 他们可能有两种意思
they could mean one of two things. 他们可能是指没人相信
They could mean nobody really believes 他们将不再作为人而存在
they're going to cease to exist as a person, 这是一种可能
first possibility. 第二种可能的意思是
Second possible claim, 没人真得相信
nobody really believes 他们会经历肉体死亡这件事
they're going to undergo the death of their bodies. 我们依次来考察一下
Let's take these in turn. 到底有没有理由让我们相信
Is there any good reason to believe 我们并不相信
that we don't believe 自己将不再作为人而存在呢
that we're going to cease to exist as a person? 我觉得  对于这种说法
Well, the most common argument for this claim 最常见的论据是这样的
I think takes the following form. 人们有时会说
People sometimes say, 既然不可能描绘出死后的世界
since it's impossible to picture being dead, 不可能描绘出死后的世界
it's impossible to picture being dead--, 意思就是说
That is to say, 你不可能说出你自己死了以后会怎么样
it's impossible to picture your own being dead. 我们每个人都要
Each one of us has to think 从第一人称的角度
about this from the first person perspective 或是类似的方式去思考
or something like that. 想一想你自己正在死去
Think about your dying, 你将死亡
your being dead-- 既然根本不可能描绘
Since that's impossible to picture, 根本不可能想象
that's impossible to imagine, 所以没有人会相信
nobody believes in the possibility 他们有可能会死
that they're going to die, 有可能不复存在
that they're going to cease to exist. 这个观点的意思好像是说
The idea seems to be 你不能相信那些
that you can't believe in possibilities 你无法描绘或想象的东西
that you can't picture or imagine. 而这种假说
Now, that hypothesis, 这种命题  这种臆断
that thesis, that assumption, 并不是那么确定的
could be challenged. 我觉得也许我们不应该同意这种看法
I think probably we shouldn't believe the theory of belief 说什么要相信一件事情
which says that in order to believe in something, 你就得能把它描绘或想象出来吧(口误)
you've got to be able to picture it or imagine it. 但作为讨论基础  我们该感谢这种假说
But let's grant that assumption for the sake of argument. 我们假设要相信某件事
Let's suppose that in order to believe in something, 就得能把它们描绘出来
you've got to be able to picture it. 然后呢
What then? 我们根据这个观点  要怎么得出
How do we get from there to the conclusion 我不相信我会死
that I can't believe that I'm going to die, 我不相信我将不复存在这个结论呢
I'm going to cease to exist as a person? 当然  这个观点
Well, the thought, of course, 主张的是我无法描绘或想象我的死亡
is I can't picture or imagine my death. 我无法描绘或想象出来我死了的样子
I can't picture or imagine my being dead. 在这里作一些区分是很重要的
It's important here to draw some distinctions. 我当然可以想象我生病的画面
I can certainly picture being ill. 我身患癌症躺在病床上  眼看要死了
There I am on my deathbed dying of cancer, 身体越来越虚弱
growing weaker and weaker. 也许我甚至还能描绘出
I can perhaps even picture 我死亡那一刻的情景
the moment of my death. 我对家人和朋友们说了再见
I've said goodbye to my family and friends. 一切都变得越来越灰暗模糊
I've the--Everything's growing greyer and dimmer. 意识越来越难以集中
It's growing harder and harder to concentrate. 然后  就没有下文了
And then, well, and then there is no "And more." 但是这种说法
The claim, however, 并不是指我不能描绘生病或将死的情形
is not that I can't picture being ill or dying. 而是指
The claim's got to be, 我不能描绘出死亡的样子
I can't picture being dead. 试试看好啦
Well, try it. 试着想象死掉的自己会怎么样
Try to picture being dead. 死掉是什么样的呢
What's it like to be dead? 有时人们称这是一个谜
Sometimes people claim it's a mystery. 我们不知道死掉会是什么样
We don't know what it's like to be dead, 因为每当我们试图想象的时候
because every time we try to imagine it, 我们都失败了
we fail. 我们做不到
We don't do a very good job. 我倾向于认为
I'm inclined to think 这样思考这个问题是很混乱的
that that way of thinking about the question is really confused. 你自己给自己设定目标
You set yourself the goal of trying to put yourself 想把你自己摆到一个
in the situation imaginatively 想象自己死亡的境地
of what it's like to be dead 于是我就从试着去除
So I start by trying to strip off 我明白我死后不会再具有
the parts of my conscious life 的意识生命开始
that I know I won't have when I'm dead. 我什么都听不见
I won't hear anything. 我什么都看不见
I won't see anything. 我什么都没法思考
I won't think anything. 你们可以试着想象
And you try to imagine 什么都不想
what it's like to not think 什么都感觉不到  不闻不见是什么样的
or feel or hear or see. 你做不到的
And you don't do a very good job of it. 所以你就干脆手一甩
So you throw your hands up 说"哦  我不知道那会怎么样
and you say, "Oh, I guess I don't know what it's like. 那一定是很神秘的吧"
So it must be a mystery." 一点都不神秘
It's not a mystery at all. 假设我问
Suppose I ask, "成为这个手机会怎么样"
"What's it like to be this cell phone?" 回答就是  "没什么怎么样"
The answer is, "It's not like anything," 那不是说
where that doesn't mean 变成这个手机能如何如何
there's something that it's like to be a cell phone, 和变成别的东西有什么不一样
but different from being anything else. 所以说它没什么怎么样
So it's not like anything else; 这是一种感觉或者说体验的特殊方式
it's a special way of feeling or experiencing. 不是这样的
No. 手机并没有任何体验
Cell phones don't have any experience at all. 作为一个手机
There is nothing that it's like 没什么怎么样的
on the inside to be a cell phone. 想象我试着问自己
Imagine that I try to ask myself, "如果我是我的圆珠笔会怎么样"
"What's it like to be my ball point pen?" 我试图想象
And I try to imagine, 首先
well, first, 想象自己变得非常非常硬
imagine being really, really stiff, 因为如果你是一支圆珠笔
because you're not flexible 你的身体就不能太软
when you're a ball point pen. 你不能动
You can't move. 想象一下  自己非常非常无聊
And imagine being really, really bored, 因为你根本不会有想法或是兴趣
because you don't have any thoughts or interests. 不  这样想象自己
No. That's completely the wrong way 变成一支圆珠笔
to go about thinking 是完全错误的
what it's like to be a ball point pen. 变成圆珠笔不会怎么样
There's nothing that it's like to be a ball point pen. 没什么好描述的  也没什么好想象的
There's nothing to describe, nothing to imagine. 变成一支圆珠笔是什么样
No mystery about 也没有什么神秘的
what it's like to be a ball point pen. 变成手机也没有任何神秘的
No mystery about what it's like to be cell phone. 同样地  我也要告诉你们
Well, similarly then, I put it to you, 死亡根本
there's no mystery about 就不神秘
what it's like to be dead. 它不会怎么样的
It isn't like anything. 我并不是说
What I don't mean, "哦  死亡是如何如何的
"Oh, it's like something, 而不是怎样怎样的"
but different from everything else." 我的意思是  根本就没有可描述的东西
I mean, there is nothing there to describe. 当你死了
When you're dead, 没有什么事情
there's nothing happening 可以想象
on the inside to be imagined. 好了
Well, 那么我们是不是可以总结出
should we conclude therefore, 考虑到这个前提
given that we've got the premise, "如果你不能描绘或想象出来
"If you can't picture it or imagine it, 你就不能相信它"
then you can't believe in it", 既然我刚说过  看  你不能想象死亡
since I've just said, look, you can't imagine being dead, 但那不是因为想象力不足
but that's not due to any failure of imagination, 而是根本没什么好想象的
that's because there's nothing there to imagine or picture. 仍旧是根据这个前提
Still, granted the premise, "如果你不能描绘出一件事物
"if you can't picture it or imagine it, 你就无法相信它"
you can't believe in it" 那么我们是否应该得出
Should we conclude,therefore, that you can't believe 你不能相信你会死亡这一结论呢
you're going to be dead? 不  我们不该得出这样的结论
No. We shouldn't conclude that. 毕竟
After all, 你的内心不仅不能描绘出
not only is it true that you can't picture from the inside 死亡是什么样的
what it's like to be dead, 你的内心也一样不能描绘出
you can't picture from the inside 一场无梦的睡眠是什么样的
what it's like to be in dreamless sleep. 一场无梦的睡眠没怎么样
There is nothing that it's like to be in dreamless sleep. 当你进入无梦的睡眠
When you're in dreamless sleep, 你也没有想象或体验任何事
you're not imagining or experiencing anything. 同样地  你也不可能去描绘出或想象
Similarly, it's not possible to picture or imagine 如果昏厥过去
what it's like to have fainted 进入完全无意识状态
and be completely unconscious 什么都感觉不到会怎么样
with nothing happening cognitively. 没什么好描绘或想象的
There's nothing to picture or imagine. 那么  我们是否应该得出
Well, should we conclude, therefore, 实际上没有人相信
so nobody really believes 他们会进入无梦睡眠这一结论呢
that they're ever in dreamless sleep? 那就太傻了
Well, that would be silly. 你当然是相信
Of course you believe 你有时候会一觉无梦
that at times you're in dreamless sleep. 我们是否应该说某些昏过去
Should we say of somebody who's fainted or know 或是知道他们自己会昏厥的人
that they're subject to fainting spells, 从来不相信他们真会昏厥过去呢
they never actually believe that they pass out? 那也太傻了
That would be silly. 他们当然相信自己会昏厥
Of course, they believe they pass out. 仅仅从他们
From the mere fact 内心无法描绘出这件事发生的事实
that they can't picture it from the inside, 并不能得出没有人相信
it doesn't follow that nobody believes 他们可能进入无梦睡眠状态这一结论
they're ever in dreamless sleep. 仅仅从他们内心无法描绘出
From the mere fact that they can't picture from the inside 昏厥过去不省人事会怎么样的事实
what it's like to have fainted and not yet woken up, 也不能推出没人相信
it doesn't mean that nobody believes 他们真会昏倒这一结论
that they ever faint. 仅仅从你内心无法描绘出
From the mere fact that you can't picture from the inside 死亡会是什么样的事实
what it's like to be dead, 也不能推出
it doesn't follow 没有人相信他们会死亡这一结论
that nobody believes they're going to die. 但我不是一开始的时候
But didn't I start off 就感谢过那个
by saying I was going to grant 给出这个论点
the person who is making this argument 即  认为要相信某件事物
that in order to believe something, 你就得能够描绘出它的人吗
you've got to be able to picture it? 我不是刚说过
And haven't I just said, "看  你无法描绘出你的死亡"吗
"Look, you can't picture being dead"? 我是不是要收回这句话了呢
So aren't I taking it back? 既然我说你可以相信你会死
Since I say you can believe you're going to die, 但你的内心又无法描绘出死亡
yet you can't picture it from the inside. 我是不是收回了
Haven't I taken back the assumption 要相信某件事物
that in order to believe it, 你就得能够描绘出它的论断呢
you've got to be able to picture it? 不是这样的
Not quite. 虽然我对这个说法表示怀疑
Although I am skeptical about that claim, 我还是要继续感谢
I am going to continue giving it to 那个给出这个论点的人
the person who makes this argument, 因为我还无法肯定
because I'm not so prepared to admit 你是不是无法描绘出死亡
that you can't picture being dead. 你可以描绘出死亡  没问题
You can picture being dead, all right. 你只是无法从内心去描绘出它
You just can't picture it from the inside. 但你可以从表象去描绘出它
You can picture it from the outside. 我很容易就能描绘出自己处于
I can picture being in 无梦的睡眠状态的样子
dreamless sleep quite easily. 我现在就在这么做
I'm doing it right now. 我脑中想的是我躺在床上睡着
I've got a little mental image of 并且没有做梦的画面
my body lying in bed asleep, dreamlessly. 我能够轻易想象自己正在昏迷
I can picture fainting, 或是已经昏过去了的样子
or having fainted, quite easily. 想象自己没有意识  平躺在地上
Picture my body lying on the ground unconscious. 我也可以很容易地想象自己死了
I can picture my being dead quite easily. 在脑中描绘出我的肉体被放在一口棺材中
It's a little mental picture of my body in a coffin. 肉体不再运行任何机能
No functioning occurring in my body. 所以  就算"只有描绘出来才能相信"
So even if it were true 这个观点是对的
that "Belief requires picturing", 就算你不能从内心
and even if were true 描绘出死亡是什么样
that you can't picture being dead from the inside, 也并不能推出你不能相信
it wouldn't follow that you can't believe 你会死的这个结论
you're going to die. 你只要从表象上描绘出来就行了
All you have to do is picture it from the outside. 这样就搞定了
We're done. 所以我总结一下  你当然可以
So I conclude,of course you can 真的相信你会死
and do believe you're going to die. 但与此同时
But at this point, 提出这个论点的人也得到了可能的回答
the person making the argument has a possible response. 这是个非常普通的回答
And it's a quite common response. 他说  "看  我试着去想象这个世界
He says, "Look, I try to picture the world- 我承认只是从表象上
admittedly from the outside-- 我试着去想象这个
I try to picture the world 没有我存在的世界
in which I don't exist, 我再也没有意识了
I'm no longer conscious. 我不再是一个人
I'm no longer a person, 不再对任何东西有感觉
no longer experiencing anything. 我试着想象那样一个世界
I try to picture that world. 比如说  我描绘出
I picture, for example, 看见我自己的葬礼
seeing my funeral. 而当我试着这么做的时候
And yet, when I try to do that, 我在观察它
I'm observing it. 我在观赏这场葬礼
I'm watching the funeral. 我看着这场葬礼
I'm seeing the funeral. 于是  我又在思考了
Consequently, I'm thinking. 所以我并没有真正想象出
So I haven't really imagined the world 这个我所不存在的世界
in which I no longer exist, 这个我死后的世界
a world in which I'm dead, 这个我根本没有思考或观察能力的世界
a world in which I'm incapable of thought and observation. 通过作为这场葬礼的观察者
I've smuggled myself back in 我把自己偷偷变回来了"
as the observer of the funeral." 每一次我试图描绘出自己死亡的样子
Every time I try to picture myself being dead, 我都把自己偷偷变回
I smuggle myself back in, 有意识的  存在的人
conscious and existing as a person, 并且  我从人格上来说还没死
hence, not dead as a person. 也许我的肉体
Maybe my body-- 我想象自己的肉体已经消亡了
I'm imagining my body dead, 但我并不是想象我自己
but I'm not imagining myself, 我这个人  死亡了
the person, dead. 可以随之推出
From which it follows, 这个论点接下来说
the argument goes, 我并不是真的相信我会死
that I don't really believe I'll ever be dead. 因为当我试着想象一个我死掉的世界
Because when I try to imagine a world in which I'm dead, 我就变回了没死的状态
I smuggle myself back in. 很多地方都体现出这个论点
This argument shows up in various places. 我引用一个弗洛伊德的例子
Let me mention, let me quote one case of it, Freud. 弗洛伊德说
Freud says, 这是引自你们要读的
this is, I'm quoting from one of 一篇沃尔特·考夫曼的文章
the Walter Kaufman essays that you'll be reading, 题目叫《死亡》  他引用了弗洛伊德的话
called "Death." He quotes Freud. 弗洛伊德说
Freud says, 毕竟
After all, 一个人的死亡是超越想象的
one's own death is beyond imagining, 无论何时我们试着去想象它
and whenever we try to imagine it 我们都会发现我们像旁观者一样地活着
we can see that we really survive as spectators. 因此这一说法会受到精神分析学派的挑战
Thus, the dictum could be dared in the psychoanalytic school: 实际上
at bottom, 没有人相信他自己的死亡
nobody believes in his own death. 或者这么说也一样
Or, and this is the same: 在无意识的情况下
in his unconscious, 我们每个人都确信自己将永生
every one of us is convinced of his immortality. 好啦  这就是弗洛伊德的话
All right, there's Freud. 基本上  这就是我刚才
Basically, just running the argument 给你们讲过的那一套论证
I've just sketched for you. 当你试着想象自己死去
When you try to imagine your being dead, 你就把自己变回了旁观者
you smuggle yourself back in as a spectator. 于是弗洛伊德推出
And so, Freud concludes, 在某种程度上  我们没有人
at some level none of us 真正相信自己会死
really believes we're going to die. 我想说的是
I want to say, 我认为这个观点很可怕
I think that argument's a horrible argument. 你们中有多少人相信
How many of you believe that there are 尽管你不在场但会议还是照常进行的呢
meetings that take place without you? 假设你是某个俱乐部的成员
Suppose you're a member of some club 今天下午要开会
and there's a meeting this afternoon 你却不能到场
and you won't be there, 因为你要去一个别的地方
because you've got to be someplace else. 于是你问自己
So you ask yourself, "我是否相信即使我不去
"Do I believe that meeting's going 这会议也照常举行呢"
to take place without me?" 乍一看
At first glance, 好像你是相信的
it looks like you do, 但弗洛伊德式的观点
but here's the Freudian argument 会说你并不相信
that shows you don't really. 试着想象一下
Try to imagine, 试着描绘出一场没有你参与的会议
try to picture that meeting without you. 而当你确确实实地描绘出它
Well, when you do picture it, 在你的脑海中就有了那个房间
there's that room in your mind's eye. 你想象出了
You've got a little picture of 或许人们围坐在桌子边
people sitting around the table perhaps, 谈论着你们俱乐部的事情
discussing the business of your club. 我又把自己变回了一个观察者
I've smuggled myself in as a spectator. 如果像你们一样
If, like you--, 我想我们大多数人
I think most of us 都会从房间的一角
picture these things up from a perspective 想象这些事情
in a corner of the room, 或是从墙壁上
up on the wall, 向下看  通过一只苍蝇的视角
looking down, kind of a fly's perspective. 我又把自己变回了一个观察者
All right, I've smuggled myself in as a spectator. 我最终还是真切地站在房间里了
I'm actually in the room after all. 所以我并没有真正想象出没有我的会议
So I haven't really pictured the meeting taking place without me. 所以我猜我大概并不相信
So I guess I don't really believe 没有我在的话这场会议也会举行
the meeting's going to take place without me. 如果弗洛伊德的死亡观点
If Freud's argument for death, 也就是
that is to say, 我们没有人相信自己会死
none of us believe we're going to die, 这个观点是正确的话
was any good, 那么说我们没有人相信
the argument that none of us believe 即使我们不在  会议也会举行也是对的
meetings ever take place without us would have to work as well. 但那太傻了
But that's silly. 显然我们实际上都相信
It's clear that we all do believe in the possibility, 不止是一点点可能性
indeed, more than a mere possibility, 会议没有我们也照开不误
the actuality of meetings that occur without us. 即使当我想象那场会议的时候
Even though when I imagine that meeting, 从某种角度来说
I'm in some sense, 我还是把自己变回了观察者
smuggling myself in as an observer. 我认为由此可以推出
From which I think it follows that the mere fact 我把自己变回观察者这个事实
that I've smuggled myself in as an observer doesn't mean 并不意味着我不相信
that I don't really believe in the possibility 我是在脑中观察的可能性
that I'm observing in my mind's eye. 我可以相信某场会议正在举行
I can believe in the existence of a meeting that takes place, 即使当我描绘出那场会议的时候
even though I smuggle myself in as an observer 把自己变成了一个观察者
when I picture that meeting. 我相信我不存在于世界上的可能性
I can believe in the possibility of a world without me, 即使当我描绘出没有我的世界的时候
even though I smuggle myself in as an observer 把自己变成了一个观察者
when I picture that world without me. 弗洛伊德的错误就是  虽然我在批判他
Freud's mistake, and it's--although I'm picking on Freud, 其实不止弗洛伊德一个人
it's not only Freud 提出这种论点
that runs this sort of argument. 我们会时不时地碰到有人这么认为
One comes across it periodically. 去年
Within the last year, 我们学校法学院的一个人
a member of our law school here 就提出了这种观点
put forward this very argument 并且说他认为这种观点很有道理
and said he thought it was a good one. 所以说  人们觉得这种观点有道理
So people think the argument's a good one. 我却认为这是个糟糕的观点
It strikes me as it's got to be a bad one. 这里的困惑之处  我认为
The confusion, the mistake I think people are making 当人们这么说的时候犯的错
when they make this argument, 我认为他们正在犯的错是
the mistake I think they're making is this. 问自己描绘出的内容是什么
It's one thing to ask yourself, 这是一件事
what's the content of the picture? 而问  当你看着你描绘出的内容时
It's another thing to ask, 你是否存在
when you look at the picture, 这是另一件事
are you existing? 你是从某种特定角度去描绘出的吗
Are you looking at the picture from a certain point of view? 假设我拿着一张海滩的照片
Suppose I hold up a photograph of a beach 上面一个人也没有
with nobody on it. 好了  难道我是在
All right, am I in that beach, 照片中的那个海滩上吗
as pictured in that photograph? 当然不是
Of course not. 但当我看它时
But as I look at it, 不管是真实地看着还是在脑海中想象
whether in reality or in my mind's eye, 我都是从一个角度去看它的
I'm looking at it from a perspective. 当我想到它的时候
As I think about it, 我从某种角度去看待这个海滩
I'm viewing the beach from a point of view 说不定正好就是在海滩上呢
which may well be on the beach, 如果有人画一幅海滩画的话
if somebody draws a painting of a beach. 但尽管如此
But for all that, 它们都不意味着描绘出这个海滩
that doesn't mean that within the picture of the beach, 我就必须得在海滩上
I'm in the beach. 看着一幅画
Looking at a picture 并不意味着你得在画里
doesn't mean you're in the picture. 从某种角度去观察一场会议
Viewing the meeting from a point of view, 并不意味着你得参加会议
doesn't mean you're in the meeting. 从某种角度去观察没有你的世界
Viewing the world without you from a point of view, 也并不意味着你得存在于世界上
doesn't mean you're in the world. 所以尽管的确如此
So although of course it's true, 当我想象种种没有我的可能性时
when I imagine these various possibilities without me, 我正在想着它们
I'm thinking about them. 正在观察它们
I'm observing them. 我是从某种特定角度
And I'm observing them from a particular perspective, 特定立场去观察它们的
from a particular standpoint. 即使是这样
For all that, 我也可以不在我所描绘出的那场景中
I'm not in the picture that I'm thinking about. 所以我认为弗洛伊德式的论证是错的
So I think the Freudian argument just fails. 现在  也许还有些理由
Now, maybe there's some other reason to believe 让我们相信"没人相信
the claim that nobody believes 他们真得会不复存在"这一说法
they will cease to exist. 但如果对此说法还有什么别的论证的话
But if there is another argument for that claim, 我倒非常乐意洗耳恭听
I'm eager to hear it, 因为这个说法  不管怎么看
because this argument, at any rate, 我觉得都是不成功的
seems to me to be unsuccessful. 在一开始
Now, at the start, 我区分了两种
I distinguished two claims people 人们说"没人相信他们会死"时
might have in mind when they say, 可能有的想法
"Nobody believes they're going to die." 第一种是说
The first possibility was the claim was, 没有人相信他们会停止作为一个人而存在
nobody believes that they'll ever cease to exist as a person. 而我刚刚解释了为什么我认为
And I've just explained why 至少这个说法最常见的论据
at least the most familiar argument for that claim, 是不成功的
I think, doesn't work. 第二种可能的解读是
The second possible interpretation was this. 没有人相信他们的肉体会死亡
Nobody believes their body is going to die. 那就是指更为平常的死亡事件
That is, the more familiar humdrum event of death 你的肉体停止运作
where your body ceases functioning 最终变成一具尸体被埋葬  诸如此类
and you end up having a corpse that gets buried and so forth. 有时这两种解读都没有人相信
Sometimes it's suggested that nobody believes that either. 当然  我想通常情况下
Of course, often, I think, 人们会把这两个问题混为一谈
people run together these two questions. 当他们说你不相信你会死
When they say you don't believe you're going to die, 是说  你不相信你的肉体会死呢
do you mean, you don't believe your body's going to die? 还是你不相信
or you don't believe 你作为一个人会不复存在呢
you're going to cease to exist as a person? 可能当人们这样说的时候
Maybe when people make the claim, 并不清楚他们脑中想的是哪一个
it's not clear which of these things they've got in mind. 但至少我们得试着
But let's, at least, 去重点研究第二个问题
try to now focus on the second question. 到底是不是对的
Could it be true, 到底有没有理由让我们相信
is there any good reason to believe it is true, 没有人相信
that nobody believes 他们会经历肉体上的死亡呢
they're going to undergo bodily death? 毕竟  就算你相信
Now, after all, even if you believe that, 你的灵魂会上天堂
well, your soul will go to heaven 所以你作为人并不会消失
so you won't cease to exist as a person, 你可能还相信你的肉体是会死的
you might still believe that your body will die. 我们大多数人想必是相信肉体是会死的
Most of us presumably do believe our bodies will die. 至少我是这么认为的
At least, that's how it seems to me. 所以  虽然已经有人提出这一观点
So it's a bit odd to suggest, 这样说还是有点奇怪的
as it nonetheless does get suggested, 即在某种层面上
that no, no, at some level, 人们并不真正相信他们会死
people don't really believe they're going to die. 下面我来指出这种说法哪里奇怪
Let me point out just how odd a claim that is. 因为人们的一切行为
Because people do all sorts of behaviors 都会变得非常非常难以理解
which become very, very hard to interpret 如果他们并不真正相信他们会死的话
if they don't really believe their bodies are going to die. 比如说  人们
People, for example, 会去买人寿保险  以便...
take out life insurance so that-- 似乎该这么解释
well, here's what seems to be the explanation. 他们相信  他们很有可能
They believe that there's a decent chance 在某个特定时刻死亡
that they will die within a certain period of time. 于是  如果他们真的死了
And so, if that happens, 他们希望自己的孩子和家人能得到照顾
they want their children and family members to be cared for. 如果你并不真的相信你会死
If you didn't really believe you were going to die, 也就是经历肉体的死亡
that is undergo bodily death, 那你为什么要买人寿保险呢
why would you take out life insurance? 人们写遗嘱
People write wills. "我死后  我的遗产要这么这么分配"
"Here's what you should do with my estate after I die." 如果你并不真的相信你的肉体会死
If you didn't really believe that your body was going to die, 你干吗还要写什么遗嘱呢
why would you ever bother writing a will? 既然很多人都写遗嘱
Since many people write wills, 很多人都买人寿保险
many people take out life insurance, 看来好像最自然的说法是
it seems as though the natural thing to suggest is that 很多  或者至少多数人
many, or at least perhaps most, 至少很多人相信他们会死
at least many people believe they're going to die. 我们为什么会那么想呢
Why would we think otherwise? 觉得自己不会死的原因
Well, the reason for thinking otherwise, 对于这一说法没那么彻底敌视的原因
the reason for not being utterly dismissive of this suggestion, 是当人们最终生病的时候
is that when people get ill, terminally ill, 人们经常会感到措手不及
it often seems to take them by surprise. 我让你们读过托尔斯泰的中篇小说
So I've been having you read Tolstoy's novella, 《伊万里奇之死》
The Death of Ivan Ilyich. 伊万里奇倒下了  他伤害了他自己
Ivan Ilyich falls, he hurts himself. 他的伤并没有好转
The injury doesn't get better. 他的情况越来越糟糕  最终他死了
He gets worse and worse and eventually it kills him. 令人惊奇的是
The astonishing thing 伊万里奇很震惊地
is that Ivan Ilyich is shocked 发现自己是会死的
to discover that he's mortal. 当然
And of course, 托尔斯泰想要让我们相信的是
what Tolstoy is trying to convince us of, 通过解释这种观点
what he's trying to argue, 试图证明的是
by illustrating the claim, 我认为  托尔斯泰想要说明的是
I take it, that Tolstoy is making, is that 我们大多数人实际上就在伊万里奇的船上
most of us are actually in Ivan Ilyich's boat. 我们口头上说着
We give lip service to the claim 我们会死
that we're going to die, 但在某种层面上
but at some level, 我们并不相信这句话
we don't really believe it. 再次提醒大家注意
And notice again, 我只强调一下重点
just to emphasize the point, 相关的信仰缺失
the relevant lack of belief here 与肉体死亡是有关联的
has to do with the death of the body. 这也正是伊万里奇所质疑的
That's the thing that Ivan Ilyich is skeptical about. 他的肉体会死吗
Is his body going to die? 这么说来他是会死的吗
Is he mortal in that sense? 这件事突然让他
This is what takes him aback, 意识到他是会死的
to discover that he's mortal. 我们都知道
For all we know, 伊万里奇仍然相信灵魂是存在的
Ivan Ilyich still believes in souls, 相信他会上天堂什么的
believes he's going to go to heaven and so forth. 所以他并不是在疑惑
So it's not his death as a person 他作为一个人会死亡
that he's puzzled by. 他不是想到他是作为一个人死去
He may not think he's going to die as a person. 他惊讶的是他的肉体会死亡
It's his bodily death that surprises him, 他的肉体竟然不是永生的
his bodily mortality that surprises him. 托尔斯泰高度现实并且可信地
Tolstoy draws a highly realistic 刻画出了一个
and believable portrait of somebody 因发现自己会死而大为惊讶的人
who is surprised to discover that he's mortal. 正如他所描述的
As he puts it, 人们从亚里士多德的逻辑课那里
there's a famous syllogism 学到过一个著名的三段论
that people learn in their logic classes from Aristotle. 所有人都会死
All men are mortal. 苏格拉底是人
Socrates is a man, 所以苏格拉底会死
so Socrates is mortal. 伊万里奇说  "对对  我知道
Ivan Ilyich says, "Yes, yes, I knew that. 但那跟我有什么关系呢"
But what did that have to do with me?" 这可能有点不太合理
Well, it may be a kind of irrationality. 可能无法推导出这个逻辑
It may be a kind of failure to conduct the logic. 但我们并不是在问
But we're not asking, 不相信你的肉体会死
is it rational or irrational to not believe 到底是理性的还是非理性的
that your body's going to die, 我们只是希望
we're simply asking, 大家注意到这个事实  即有些人
noting the fact that, there do seem to be cases 会惊讶地发现
where people are surprised to discover 他们并不是永生的
that they're mortal. 尽管如此  请注意
Now, for all that, notice, 我假定伊万里奇是有遗嘱的
I presume that Ivan Ilyich had a will. 据我所知  他还买了人寿保险
And for all I know, Ivan Ilyich had life insurance. 于是我们现在在一个特殊的情境下
So we're in the peculiar situation where on the one hand, 一方面  伊万里奇的某些行为
some of Ivan Ilyich's behaviors 暗示了他相信自己终有一死
indicate that he believed he was mortal, 相信自己的肉体是会死的
that his body was going to die. 但是  当他真正面对
And yet, the shock and surprise that faces, 自己会死这件事时
that overcomes him 他所表现出的震惊和意外
when he actually has to face his mortality, 有力地表明他的说法是对的
strongly suggests that he's reporting correctly. 他不相信自己会死
He didn't believe he was going to die. 怎么会这样呢
How could that be? 在这里是个谜
There's a kind of puzzle there as to-- 即使是到我们谈到这个问题之前
even if, before we move to the question, 像这样的例子会有多少呢
how widespread are cases like this? 这是个谜
There's a puzzle as to 我们到底该如何理解这个例子呢
how are we even to understand this case? 我们也许需要区分
We need to distinguish perhaps between 他的意识里相信的是什么
what he consciously believes 他的潜意识里又相信的是什么
and what he unconsciously believes. 可能在意识的层面他相信自己会死
Maybe at the conscious level he believed he was mortal, 而到了无意识的层面他觉得自己会永生
but at the unconscious level he believed he was immortal. 或者也许我们需要区分
Or maybe we need to distinguish between 他嘴上随便说说的那些事
those things he gives a kind of lip service to, 和他真正本质上相信的那些事
versus those things he truly and fundamentally believes. 也许他只是嘴上说自己会死
Maybe he gives lip service to the claim that he was mortal. 如果你问他  "你会死吗"
If you would have asked him "Are you mortal?" 他会回答  "我当然会死"
he would have said "Oh, of course I am." 也因此他才去买了人寿保险
And he buys life insurance accordingly. 但他是完全地  真正地
But does he thoroughly and truly 从根本上相信自己会死吗
and fundamentally believe he's mortal? 大概不是
Perhaps not. 如果我们想要理解伊万里奇的话
We need some such distinction 我们就要作出这样的区分
if we're going to make sense of Ivan Ilyich. 假设我们已经区分完了
Well, let's suppose we've done it. 但我们还是得问
Still have to ask, not, 不是问"到底有没有人
are there are ever cases of people 不相信自己会死"
who don't believe they're going to die? 而是问"有没有理由让我们相信
but rather, is there any good reason to think 我们大多数人在那种情境下
that we're all or most of us are in that situation, 就算我们
are in that state of belief where, 口头上说着
although we give lip 我们是会死的
service to the claim that we're going to die, 但有没有理由让我们相信
is there any good reason to believe that 本质上我们并不真那么想的呢"
fundamentally we don't actually believe it? 那就是我们下节课要讨论的问题
That's the question we have to turn to next time. 



 Chapter 15: 独自死亡、死亡之害（一）


托尔斯泰笔下的伊万里奇惊讶地发现
Tolstoy's Ivan Ilyich is surprised to discover 自己竟然会死
that he's going to die. 虽然他一直把死亡挂在嘴边
It's the sort of thing he's given lip service to, 毋庸置疑  他这辈子都在说自己会死
no doubt, over the course of his life. 但当他最后病倒  开始真正面对死亡
But when he finally gets ill and comes up to the fact of his mortality, 抱着残弱不堪的躯体等待死神降临时
that his body is going to sicken and eventually die, 即将奔赴黄泉的事实却使他大为震惊
the fact of his mortality seems to shock him, 乃至惊讶万分
seems to surprise him. 也许可以说
We might say, 在某个层面上他相信自己是会死的
on one level he believes that he was mortal. 这点他一直都相信
He's believed it all along. 但在另一个更深的层面上
But at another level, at some deeper level, 死亡却令他惊讶万分
it comes as a surprise to him. 他从未真正相信这一事实
He never really believed it. 现在  我假设伊万里奇的例子真实可信
Now, I take it that we find Ivan Ilyich a perfectly believable example. 即  我们相信的确有人在某种层面上
That is, we think it's conceivable that somebody could, at some level, 从未真正相信自己会死
not really believe they're going to die. 我也认为托尔斯泰
But I also take it that Tolstoy means to be putting forward 并非只想告诉我们真有这样一个人存在
more than just a claim that there could be such a person. "这个人很古怪的
"Look how bizarre he is. 我来给你说说他有多怪"
Let me describe him for you." 而是想将伊万里奇作为一个典型
But rather, the suggestion is meant to be that Ivan Ilyich's case is rather typical. 也许人人都是如此
Maybe all of us are in his situation, 或者说至少大部分人如此
or at least most of us are in his situation. 再或者至少相当一部分人如此
Or, at the very least, many of us are in his situation. 这说法挺给力的  虽然我觉得
That's a stronger claim, though I think it's not the 并非仅托尔斯泰一人抱有这种看法
sort of claim that's unique to Tolstoy, 所有或大多数或相当一部分人在根本上
that all of us or most of us or many of us at the fundamental level 都是从未真正相信自己会死的
don't really believe that we're going to die. 你也许会问  你凭什么这么说
You might ask, what kind of evidence could be offered for that? 伊万里奇这例子
Offering a realistic scenario, 没法让我们信服
a realistic description of such a person --Ivan Ilyich-- 还不足以让我们相信
doesn't give us any reason to think 大多数人或者相当一部分人像他那样
that most of us or many of us are in his situation. 那么是否有理由这样想呢
So, is there any reason to think that? 你也许会问  对此
You might ask, what kind of argument could be offered 我们又该如何论证呢
for a claim like that? 我认为  我们应该把它作为
What we'd be looking for, I take it, 某种需要我们解释的行为
would be some kind of behavior on our part that calls out for explanation. 而该论证的最佳解释
And the best explanation is to be had--this is how the argument would go. 就是假设
The best explanation is to be had by supposing 确实有此种行为的人存在
that those people who behave this way. 假设相当一部分人有这种行为
Let's suppose many of us who behave this way. 那么对此行为的最佳解释即为
The best explanation of that behavior is to be 我们在某个层面上  某个基本层面上
found by claiming that at some level, at some fundamental level, 并不相信那些我们口口声声说相信的事物
we don't really believe what we claim to believe. 我们并不相信自己嘴上说的那些话
We don't really believe what we give lip service to. 例如某个强迫症患者
Take somebody who perhaps suffers from some 一直在洗自己的手
sort of compulsion to wash his hands. 有人问他  "你手脏吗"
We ask him, "Are your hands dirty?" 他说  "不  当然不脏"
He might say, "No, of course not." 说完  他又回到洗手间继续洗他的手
And yet, there he is, going back to bathroom, washing his hands again. 你会说  对此行为的唯一解释
You might say, the only way to explain the behavior is to say 就是在某个层面上  他相信自己手脏
that at some level, he really does believe his hands are dirty, 尽管他嘴上说不脏
despite the fact that he says they're not. 同样  如果我们的某些行为
Well, in the same way, if we could find some behavior on our part 亟待这种解释
that calls out for explanation, 那么对此行为的最佳解释便是
that the best possible explanation would be 在某个层面上我们不相信自己会死
that at some level we don't believe we're going to die, 然后我们就可以说  我们有理由认为
then we might say, look, this gives us some reason to think 我们并非真的相信自己会死
that we don't really believe we're going to die, 即便我们声称自己相信
even though we say we believe it. 假设  如果你真的相信从根本上
Suppose, for example, that if you really did believe, fundamentally, 在潜意识里  不管在哪个层面上
unconsciously, all the way down 如果你真的相信自己会死的话
however we should put it--if you really did believe you were going to die, 死亡的恐惧将令你尖叫不止
the horror of that would lead you to start screaming and just keep screaming. 这个例子又让我们想起伊万里奇
Of course, this example reminds us again of Ivan Ilyich, 一直叫啊叫的  直到死掉
who screams and screams and screams almost till his death. 假设这是真的
Well, suppose this was true. 假设我们极有理由相信
Suppose that if you -suppose we believed--we had good reason to believe-- 如果你认真思考你会死这一事实
if you really took seriously the thought that you were going to die, 你就会一直尖叫
you couldn't stop screaming. 但显然  这里没人尖叫
But of course, nobody here is screaming, 于是我们便可以得出结论
from which we can conclude 没人从根本上
none of us really do believe, 潜意识里相信自己真的会死
fundamentally, deep down, that we're going to die. 如果我们有理由相信这个有条件的假设
That would be a good argument if we had good reason to believe 这必将是一个很好的论证
the conditional, the if-then claim. 如果你真的相信自己会死
If only you really truly believed you were going to die, 你就会不断地尖叫
you would scream and scream and scream. 这是决定性的前提
That's the crucial premise. 当然  就我所知
And of course, 我们没有足够的理由
we don't have any good--as far as I can see--we don't have any 去相信这个决定性前提
good reason to believe that crucial premise. 你也许会问  有没有其它行为
You might ask though, is there some other behavior, 能就我们是否相信自己真的会死这一问题
something else that should tip us off, could tip us off, 给予我们一点启发呢
as to whether or not we really do or don't believe that we're going to die? 以下是我能想到的最好的行为
Well, here's the best that I can do. 这是我个人认为对此问题最好的论证了
This strikes me as the most plausible contender for an argument like this. 我们知道  有些人曾和死神擦肩而过
As we know, there are people who have brushes with death. 例如在一场事故中差点丧命
They might be, for example, in an accident, and come close to being killed, 最后却毫发无伤
but walk away without a scratch. 又或者心脏病突发不得不立即做手术
Or suffer a heart attack and be on the operating table for some 几小时后  心外科的医生拯救了你
number of hours and then, thanks to cardiac surgery 使你获得重生
or what have you, be resuscitated. 人们一旦有过这种濒死体验
When people have these near brushes with death, 便会相信他们对死亡有了更为真切的认识
it's easy to believe that the fact of their mortality is more vivid. 简直是前所未有的真切
It's more before their mind's eye. 于是现在  他们坚信自己的确会死
It's something that they now really truly do believe. 有趣的是  许多有此经历的人
And the interesting point is many people who have this sort of experience, 那些对死亡有真切认知的人  经常会说
for whom their mortality has become vivid, they often say, "我要改变我的人生
"I've got to change my life. 我要减少工作时间多陪陪家人
I need to spend less time at the office and more time with my family, 对我爱的人说  我爱他们
telling the people that I love that I love them, 做一些真正重要的事
doing the things that are important to me, 少花些时间去担忧如何超过别人
spend less time worrying about getting ahead, 如何赚钱或是买个等离子电视"等等
making money, getting the plasma TV," whatever it is. 假设所有人或者大部分人都会如此
Let's suppose that this is true of all of us, or at least most of us. 当我们发现死亡是如此真切
When we find the fact of our mortality is made vivid, 当我们真正意识到自己会死时
when we really truly can see that we're mortal, 我们便会调整事情的轻重缓急
then we change our priorities, 不再把时间和精力都花在赢取竞争上
stop giving all the time and attention to trying to get ahead in the rat race 而是把时间用来与爱人一起做有意义的事
and spend more time with our loved ones doing what's important to us. 假如这个说法成立
Suppose that claim were true. 与此同时  我们可能会注意到
Well, armed with that claim, we might notice, 大部分人的确花了很多时间
well look, of course, most of us do spend a lot of time 想要赢取竞争  赚很多钱
trying to get ahead, trying to earn a lot of money, 而非用这些时间来做那些
don't spend the bulk of our time doing the things that 对自己真正重要的事
we really truly think are most important to us, 从未告诉朋友
don't tell our friends, 也从未告诉家人  他们对你有多么重要
don't tell our family members how much they mean to us, 你有多爱他们
how much we love them. 对此我们又该如何解释呢
What are we to make of that fact? 也许答案是
Well, maybe the explanation is, 虽然我们嘴上承认我们会死
although we give lip service to the claim that we're mortal, 但从根本上 我们并不相信这点
at some more fundamental level, we don't truly believe it. 死对我们来说不够鲜明
The belief's not vivid for us. 我们从未完全相信过
We don't believe it all the way down. 这个论证  至少在我看来
Well, this is an argument--at least it seems to me-- 这个论证有可能正确
that has some chance of being right. 我无法完全肯定它是对的
I'm not at all convinced that it is right. 但至少它不像那些
But at least it doesn't seem to be the sort of argument, 我上次提到的那些  例如
unlike some of the arguments I've considered last time about oh, 没有人相信自己会死
nobody believes they're going to die because 因为你无法想象死后的场景  诸如此类
you can't picture being dead or what have you. 我认为这个论证至少存在正确的可能性
This argument, I think, has some possibility of being right. 毕竟  那些和死亡擦肩而过的人
It does seem as though people who have brushes with 似乎的确转变了自己的行为模式
death change their behavior in significant ways. 而我们之所以没像那们那样
The fact that we don't behave in those other ways gives us some 也许是因为我们在某个层面上
reason to believe that perhaps at some level we don't completely 或者从根本上并不完全相信我们会死
or fully or fundamentally believe we're going to die. 如我所说  我无法确定这个论证的正误
As I say, I'm not sure whether that argument's right. 但至少它值得我们去认真对待
But at least it's an argument worth taking seriously. 我们再来看看另一种
Let me turn now to a different claim that 关于死亡的观点
sometimes gets made about death. 这个说法
This is the claim-- 不是说没有人相信自己会死
not that nobody believes they're going to die; 就像我们上节课最后所说的那样
that's the one we've been talking about for the last lecture or so 而是说  每个人都会孤独地死去
but instead, the claim that everybody dies alone. 听上去像是某种关于死亡本质的深刻见解
This sounds like one of those deep insights into the nature of death. 蕴含某种深奥的哲学思考
It's got that kind of air of profundity about it that 或哲学追求
philosophy's thought to have or aspires to have. 每个人都会孤独地死去
Everyone dies alone. 这话对死亡的本质
This is telling us something deep and 作了深奥有力并颇有意思的挖掘
important and interesting about the nature of death. 然而  我本人对其持全盘否定的态度
Now, as it happens, this is one I'm going to be completely dismissive of. 我认为"我们都会孤独地死去"这个说法
I think, as far as I can see, that the claim "we all die alone," 无论怎么理解  都是牵强谬误的
however we interpret it, just ends up being implausible or false. 每每课程进行到此  我总纠结万分
I give it such a hard time each time I teach this class, 屡屡想着  干脆直接删掉它了事
that I'm often tempted to just drop it from the discussion altogether. 即便如此
Even though, 倘若你读了我指定的阅读材料
if you've done the reading of the Edwards paper 爱德华兹的作品
that I assigned, 你就会看到爱德华兹在其中引用了
you have a series of quotes from Edwards 许多诸如人都会孤独死去这类的话语
in which people say things like, they die alone. 我有时会在下课之后想
I sometimes come away after this discussion thinking, "我干嘛要浪费大家的时间
"Why am I wasting our time? 根本就没人相信我们会孤独地死去"
Nobody really believes this, that we all die alone." 去年我已经打定主意不讲这个问题了
Last year I was virtually ready to drop it and then, 结果某天下午  我看到某个例子
I kid you not, that very afternoon, I came across a quote. 等会我再来谈这个例子
I'll share this with you in a second. 有人说  "我们都会孤独地死去"
Somebody saying, "Oh, we all die alone." 然而两天以后  一周以后
And then I think it was two days later, a week later, 我又碰到类似的引用
I came across another quote of somebody saying, "我们都会孤独地死去" 这使我觉得
"Oh, we all die alone." It made me think, "也许这是一种普遍想法"
"Oh, I guess this is a common enough thought." 这里就有两段引用
So here are the two quotes. 但我想只要你们随便找找
But I think once you start looking for them, 在哪都能看到类似的语言
you find them everyplace. 第一个出自民间歌手劳登·温赖特三世
This first one is from the folk singer Loudon Wainwright III, 他在歌曲《世上最后一人》中唱到
from his song Last Man on Earth. "我们学会同居  却孤独地死去"
"We learn to live together and then we die alone." 我们孤独地死去  这说法挺有趣
We die alone. Interesting claim. 貌似是在探究死亡本质的某个重要课题
It seems to say something important about the nature of death. 接下来是第二段引文  摘自儿童读物
Here's another quote. This is from the children's book, 克里斯托弗·保利的大作《长老》
Eldest by Christopher Paolini, the sequel, 畅销书《龙骑士》的续篇
of course, to the bestseller Eragon. "太可怕了"  龙骑士说
"How terrible,' said Eragon, "即便在你至亲的陪伴下
To die alone, separate, 死亡依旧是孤独的"
even from the one who is closest to you.'" 有人回答道
The answer given to Eragon, "每个人都是孤独死去的  龙骑士
"Everyone dies alone, Eragon, 无论是驰骋沙场的国王
whether you are a king on a battlefield 还是身份卑微的农夫
or a lowly peasant 在家人的注视下躺在床上
lying in bed among your family, 没人能陪你奔赴黄泉
no one can accompany you into the void? 每个人都会孤独地死去"
Everyone dies alone." 如我所说  这是一种普遍观点
As I say, this is a common enough view. 这只是两个例子
Two quotes. 我还可以再找到其他类似的话
I could certainly produce others. 人都是孤独死去
Everyone dies alone. 关键在于  我们会想问
The trick--the question we're going to ask is, 能否找到一些关于此类说法的解释呢
can we find some interpretation of that claim under which, 首先它能够解释自身成立  其次
first of all it ends up being true, secondly, 也能使这个说法成为有关死亡的必然真理
it ends up being a necessary truth about death? 假如所有人在下周一会死
Suppose everyone happens to die on Monday, 全都丧命于某个宇宙事件之中
due to some cosmic coincidence. 听起来比较有趣
It might be sort of interesting, 但却并没有揭示关于死亡的深刻内涵
but it wouldn't tell us something deep about the nature of death, 如果所有人都在星期二挂了
if people could just as easily die on Tuesday. 如果所有人都在自己房里死去
If it happened to be that everybody dies in a room by themselves, 就比较有趣
that would be interesting. 我们会好奇其中的缘由
We might wonder what causes it. 但这也并未揭示什么死亡的深奥问题
But it wouldn't be some deep insight into the nature of death. 如果人都将孤独死去这一说法是必然真理
We're going to get a deep insight if it's a necessary 那它便揭示了一些深刻的内涵
truth about death that everyone dies alone. 所以它必须成立  也必须成为必然真理
So it's got to be true. It's got to be a necessary truth. 当然  这仍然是一个有趣的说法
And, of course, it's got to be an interesting claim. 假如  当我们解释"人都孤独死去"时
If, when we interpret the claim "everyone dies alone," 仅仅得出一个略显空洞的说法
that just ends up being a slightly pretentious 即  人都会死  我们也许会说
way of saying everyone dies, we might say, oh yeah, 那的确是真理并且是必然真理
that is true and it is a necessary truth, 但也没什么稀奇的
but it's not especially surprising. 它并没有揭示什么关于死亡的深层次问题
It's not some deep surprising insight into the nature of death. 地球人都知道人会死
We all knew everyone dies. 你只是把这个简单的事实
You take that familiar fact and you 包装成了"人都会孤独死去"
wrap it up in the language "everyone dies alone." 如果这就是你要说的  那实在很无聊
If that's all you're saying, you're not saying anything interesting. 当有人说
When people say, "你知道  人都会孤独死去"
"You know, everyone dies alone," 你期望得到某种对死亡深层次的揭示
you're supposed to be gaining some deep insight into the nature of death. 最终  "人都会孤独死去" 本应揭示
Finally, "everyone dies alone" is supposed to 一些关于死亡的特别寓意
say something special about death. 也不要说什么每个人都在孤独地做事情
It better not be that everyone does everything alone, 因为  不管孤独这个词表达了什么意思
because--in whatever the relevant sense of alone turns out to be- 如果人做所有事都是孤独的
if everyone does everything alone, 那么这显然太滑稽了
then of course that might be interesting. 上述说法也许举足轻重且寓意深刻
It might be very important and insightful, 但当你说人都孤独死去的时候
but you're not saying anything especially interesting 其并没有道出关于死亡的任何深刻见地
about death when you say everyone dies alone, 如果人都孤独吃饭这也算是真理的话
if it's also true that everyone eats their lunch alone. 所以 我们问自己
So, all this is, is just, as we begin to ask ourselves, "人都孤独死去"这种说法
what could it possible mean when people say 到底想要表达什么意思
"everyone dies alone"? 我们一直在寻找一个真实  必然
we're looking for something that's true, necessary, 有趣并且  即使谈不上专属死亡
interesting and, if not unique to death, 但也至少不是一个放之四海而皆准的真理
at least not true of everything. 我之所反对这些是因为
I put these conditions down because, of course, 我认为  尽管
what I want to suggest is although "人都会孤独死去"这句话
the sentence "everyone dies alone," 人都孤独死去这个观点
the claim that everyone dies alone, 为许多人所接受
is one of these things that people say, 但其实他们并没有认真思考过
they're not really thinking very hard 他们到底想要通过这句话表达什么意义
about what they mean by it. 因为一旦你向他们追问
Because once you actually push people, to pin them down, 到底要表达什么意思
what do you mean by it, 你只会得到一些不真实
you end up with something that's either just not true, 无聊  或不必要的
or not interesting, or not necessary, 或者并非独属于死亡的答案
or not particularly unique to death. 来看这样一个解释
Take a possible interpretation. 一个最自然的  简单的
The most natural, straightforward, 字面的  直截了当的解释
literal, flat-footed interpretation. 某人孤独做某事的意思是说
To say that somebody does something alone means they 他做这件事时没有其他人在场
do it not in the presence of others. 某个独自生活的人睡觉
Somebody who lives by himself goes to sleep. 如果卧室里没有其他人
If there's nobody else in the bedroom, 那他就是孤独地睡觉
he's sleeping alone. 以这作为人都孤独死去的直接解释
On that straightforward interpretation, to say that everybody dies alone, 即是说  我们所有人死的时候
what we're saying is that it's true of each one of us 都没有其他人在身边
that he or she dies not in the presence of others. 如果这种说法成立  那实在是重大发现
If that was true, it would be sort of surprising, striking. 我们不知道那是不是必然真理
We might wonder whether it's a necessary truth. 但至少很有趣味性
But at least there'd be something interesting there. 当然  那不是真理  我们都很清楚
But of course, it's not true. We all know full well 有人会在他人的陪伴下死去
that sometimes people die in the presence of others. 我们在学期开始时读过柏拉图斐多篇
We read earlier this semester Plato's Phaedo, 其中描述了苏格拉底死亡的场景
which describes the death scene of Socrates. 苏格拉底喝下毒药然后在他的朋友和信徒
Socrates drinks the hemlock and dies in the presence of 陪伴下死去  苏格拉底并非孤独死去
his friends and disciples. Socrates does not die alone. 当然我们知道还有许多这样的例子
And of course, we know that there are many, 许多人在其朋友
many other cases in which people die in the presence of their friends, 家人  爱人的陪伴下死亡  所以那种
family, loved ones. It's just not true, "所有人都孤独死去"的解释是错误的
given that interpretation, to say we all die alone. 因此如果以上就是它的含义
So if that's what the claim means, 那它就是错的
it's false. 让我们试着找出一些其他的解释
Our challenge is to find some other interpretation of the claim. 好了  存在第二种可能
All right, second possibility. 当人们说"人都孤独死去"
When people say "everyone dies alone," 意思并不是说你死的时候身边没有人
they don't mean to be saying you die, but not in the presence of others. 而是更进一步说  即使你周围有人
They mean to be saying rather, even if there are others around you, 即使有人陪伴着你
even if there are others with you, 死亡却只能由你独自完成
dying is something that you're doing alone. 他们还没死
They aren't dying. 苏格拉底的朋友信徒们都没死
Socrates' friends and disciples are not dying. 只有苏格拉底死了
He's the only one dying. 于是每个人在那种情境中孤独死去
And so everyone dies alone in that sense. 如果它正确  这说法实在挺有趣
Well, that's an interesting claim, if it's true, 但其实不然
but it's not true. 战场上就很容易出现
We could certainly have battlefields in which many 许多人一道就义的情况
people are dying along with others. 琼斯死了
There is Jones dying, 但他不是一个人
but he's not dying alone. 史密斯在他旁边和他一起死了
There's Smith dying at the same time right next to him. 如果这就是人们所说的
If that's what people mean when they say "人都孤独死去"的意思
"everyone dies alone," 那显然错了
then that's clearly false as well. 我估计那也不是人们的真实想法
I presume that's not what people meant either. 那他们到底想表达一个什么意思呢
But then what was it that they did mean? 再进一步  我们可以说
Well, we could do better. We could say, 苏格拉底死的时候
look, when Socrates dies, 他孤独承受了自己的死亡
he's dying alone in the sense that he's doing it by himself. 没有人和他一起
He's not doing it in cooperation with anybody else, 没人与他协作
in coordination with anybody else. 在战场上
On the battlefield, 即使史密斯与琼斯同时死亡
even if Smith and Jones are both dying, 他们并没有通过协作  共同完成死亡
it's not like this is some sort of cooperative, joint undertaking. 如果你走过人行横道
You could be walking down the sidewalk and 琳达也走过人行横道
Linda could be walking down the sidewalk 虽然你们都走过人行横道
and even though you're both walking down the sidewalk, 但你们却没有一道走过
you're not walking down the sidewalk together. 相反  你可以与某人一起走人行横道
In contrast, you can walk down the sidewalk with somebody. 然后说  "我们一起去图书馆吧"
Say, "Hey, let's go to the library." 随即  你们便一起走过人行横道
And you walk down the sidewalk together. 你可以与他人一道完成走路
Walking is something you can do with others, 这项联合活动  或叫联合作业
in the sense that it can be a joint activity, a joint undertaking. 也许接下来  这个说法就会表示
Perhaps the claim then is that dying is not something 死亡不属于联合作业
that can be done in that way as a joint undertaking. 即使你们共处一室或者共赴战场
Even if you're in a room or a battlefield where people 同时死去  肩并肩地死去
are dying at the same time as you, to your left and your right, 死亡也不是并且无法成为联合作业
dying is not and cannot be something that is a joint undertaking. 这也许为那些声称
Well, that might be a proposal about what people "人都会孤独死去"的人们提出了建议
mean when they say "everybody dies alone." 如果真是这样  我要说
And if it is, all I can say is, again, 它仍然是错的
it just seems to be false. 不可否认  联合赴死
Now admittedly, dying as a joint undertaking 比孤独死去的情形要少见  即便是这样
is far rarer than dying alone. But for all that, 我们探寻的
we were looking for 也应是某个死亡的深刻见解
some deep insight into the nature of death. 人都会孤独死去  人必定孤独死去
Everyone dies alone. Everyone must die alone. 唯有当死亡无法成为
That's only going to be true 联合任务时这点才能成立
if dying as a joint undertaking is impossible. 但死亡其实是可以联合完成
But it's not impossible. 你可以举出集体自杀的例子
You could have, for example, some sort of suicide pact. 这种恐怖的例子的确存在
There have been cases, gruesome as they may be, 某组织成员一起服毒自尽
in which entire groups of people drink poison together 与其孤独死去
so as to die not alone, 不如步调一致  协作死亡
but die together, die as part of jointly dying, dying as a group. 或者你也许听过这种事件
Or you could have, once told that this sort of thing happens, 一对情侣跳崖殉情
a couple in love who together jump off the cliff, 共赴黄泉
committing suicide together, 通过联合协作而非孤独的方式结果彼此
dying not alone but with each other as part of a joint undertaking. 那当然可能  这些都是真实案例
It certainly seems possible. I take it cases like this actually do occur. 所以如果有人说
So if somebody comes along and says "不不  人只能孤独死去
"No, no, everybody dies alone, 联合协作赴死是不可能的"
and dying as part of a joint undertaking is impossible," 那他就错了
they're just saying something false. 你可以把这种联合协作
These joint undertakings are like, well, you 想象成一种音乐四重奏
might think of them analogous to playing chamber music with a string quartet. 你与其他人通力完成
It's something you're doing with others. 这些旋律并非由巧合拼凑而成
It's not just a coincidence that they're doing it at the same time. 各人随机演奏小提琴
All these people happen to be playing the violin, 中提琴或其它乐器
viola, or what have you next to you. 不是这样  我们彼此通力协作
No, no, we deliberately coordinated with one 才谱写出动人的旋律来
another so as to together produce this music. 四重奏乐曲是这样
It seems possible in the case of string quartets. 集体自杀事件也是如此
It seems possible in the case of joint suicide pacts as well. 然而那个说法的拥趸仍会反驳
Well, a fan of the claim that we all die alone might come back and say, "在四重奏的例子中
"Well, in the case of the string quartet, 虽然我的确与别人协作演奏
although it's true that I am playing with others, 但总有人能够代替我  总有人
somebody could take my part. Somebody else could 能够代替我演奏小提琴
play the second violin part for me. 相比之下  当我死时
Whereas, in contrast, when I die, 即便我同别人一起死
even if I'm dying with others, 却是没有人能够代替我的"
nobody can take my part." 也许这才是那个说法的含义
So perhaps that's what the claim is meant to be when people say, "人都会孤独死去"
"everybody dies alone." 没人能够经历你的死亡
Nobody can die your death for you. 没人能代替你死
Nobody can take your part. 如果他们是这意思  那么  注意
Now if that's what they mean, then--a small observation-- 他们还表达得不够清楚
they didn't express themselves very clearly. 我认为"没有人能代替我死"
It seems to me rather a long distance from the thought, 很难与那个
"nobody can die for me, nobody can take my part," to the claim, "人都会孤独死去"的说法挂钩
"everybody dies alone." 前者似乎是一个误解
That seems a rather misleading, unhelpful 而无法证明你的观点
way of making your point. 不过我们先不考虑这点
But let's just bracket that complaint. 真的没有人能代替我吗
It is true that nobody can take my part? 的确有人能够在四重奏中取代我的位置
Certainly people can take my part in the string quartet. 然而真的就没有人能代替我死吗
Is it true that nobody can take my part in terms of my death? 似乎不是这样
Not so clear it is true. 不知道你们当中有多少人
I don't know how many of 读过《双城记》
you have read Tale of Two Cities. 还没读过的同学  我马上要剧透了
If not, i'm about to spoil the plot for you. 其中有个情节是这样的
Here's at least a strand of the story. 英雄爱上了一个女人  悲剧的是
The hero of the story is in love with a woman who--alas 这个女人不爱他  她爱着另一个人
and alack--does not love him. She loves another man. 悲剧的是  这个人在法国革命中
This other man--alas and alack--has been condemned to 被宣判死罪
death during the French Revolution. 而碰巧的是  这是小说  碰巧的是
Now as it happens--this is a novel--as it happens, 我们的英雄跟那个男人长得很像
our hero looks rather like the other man. 当那个男人被拉到断头台行刑时
And so as the other man is being carted off to the guillotine to be killed, 我们的英雄代替了他  并留此名句
our hero takes his place. Hence, the famous speech, "这是我今天做的最好的一件事"
"This a far, far better thing I do today." 英雄牺牲自己成全了
Our hero sacrifices himself so that the woman he loves 他心爱的女人与她爱的人
can have the man that she loves. 我们的目的不在于浪漫的故事情节
Well, for our purposes, the romance isn't crucial. 而应将注意力集中于
For our purposes, the crucial point is to see that 怎样看待英雄舍身代替
what seems to be going on there is our hero is taking the 另外一个人去死这个问题
place of somebody else who's about to die. 就像有人能替我演奏小提琴
Just like somebody could take my place in the string quartet, 似乎也有人能够代替我上断头台
it seems that somebody could take my place at the guillotine. 美国内战时期  举国征兵
In the American Civil War, there was a draft, 如果你足够富有
but you could avoid it by hiring somebody to take your place, 你大可以雇个人代替你参军
if you were rich enough. 假如你在某场战役中
Well, you're in some battle, 或者你的部队处于某场战役中
or rather, your troop is in some battle, 你身边的人都死了
and people are being killed left and right. 因此也许可以说
Well, I suppose it doesn't strike me as an implausible thing to 如果你所在部队的所有人都牺牲了
say that if everybody in the troop got killed and you 你要在队里的话就死定了  然而
would have gotten killed had you been there, but instead, 实际上是你雇佣的那个人死了
the person you hired to take your place gets killed, 他代替了你  替你牺牲了
then he took your place. He substituted for you in the death. 因此我们并不能说
So again, we don't have any clear, 没有人能够代替我
true interpretation of the claim that nobody can take 即便是代替我死
my place, even with regard to dying. 很容易想到
Well, easy to imagine the fan of this view 那些粉丝又跑来说
coming back yet again and saying, "就算我们的英雄代替另一个人
"Although it's true that our hero takes the place of the 上了断头台  最后又怎样呢
other man on the guillotine, what ends up happening, 我们的英雄仍然经历了他自己的死亡
of course, is that our hero dies his own death. 他没有接替另一个人的死亡
He doesn't take over the death of the other man. 那个人的死亡终究
The death of the other man doesn't take place 会在20  30  40年以后才发生
until 20, 30, 40, whatever it is, years later. 没有人能够真正代替我死亡
Nobody can take my place at my death. 因为显然  即使有人代替了我
Because, of course, if they take my place, 他们最终经历的
they end up living or going through, rather, 仍然是他们自己的死亡
their death not my death. 我的死只有我自己能经历
My death is something that only I can undergo. 如果这个说法成立  那的确很有趣
Now again, that's an interesting claim if it's true. 至少听上去挺有趣的
At least it seems to be an interesting claim. 它像是关乎死亡的有趣话题
It seems to say something interesting about death. 但需要指出的事
Again, I want to just notice that 想用"人都会孤独死去"来表达这层含义
it's a rather odd thing to try to 的确挺古怪
express that point in the language "Everyone dies alone." 不过我们还是先不讨论这个
But just bracket that. 我们是否找到某些
Have we at least found something that's 必要且专属于死亡的东西
necessary, unique to death when we say, "没有人能够真正代替我死去
"Nobody can die my death for me. 只有我才能经历自己的死亡"
I am the only one who can undergo my death"? 我们每个人都只能经历自己的死亡
Each of us must undergo his own death 而无法体验别人的死亡
and nobody else's death. 别人也无法经历当事人的死亡
Nobody else can undergo their death for them, 当事人也不能体验别人的死亡
somebody else's death for them. 这么说仿佛是正确的
Well, that does seem to be true 而且看上去也像个必然真相
and it seems to be a necessary truth. 但似乎并不其然
But we're not quite done. 它揭示了某些
Is it saying something deep 关于死亡的深刻道理吗
and interesting about the nature of death? 它又是某些死亡所独有的道理吗
Is it something that's fairly unique to the nature of death? 没有人能够经历我的死亡
That nobody can die my death for me. 事实上  我不认为如此
Actually, I don't think it is. 就像理发师给你理发
Consider getting your hair cut at the barber. 当然  有人能够代替你的位置
Now of course, somebody else can take your slot. 一个人突然跑来说
All right, there's somebody who comes along and says, "我有个约会  就快迟到了
"Oh, I need to get to a date. I'm going to be late. 你能让我在你前面让我先剪吗"
Would you mind my having your appointment, using your appointment?" 你答道"你先吧  没关系的"  对吗
"Oh, I'm willing to wait. It's okay," Right? 因此你可以说
So you might say, 粗略看来  他经历了你的理发
in some loose sense they've gotten your haircut. 当然  最后
But of course, as it ended up, 他并非真的剪了你的头发
they didn't really get your haircut. 他仍然剪了自己的头发
They got their haircut. 想想理发的例子
Think about haircuts. 没有人能够真正经历我的理发
Nobody can get my haircut for me. 只有我能经历我的理发
I'm the only one who can get my haircut. 如果有人试图代替我理发
If somebody else tries to get my haircut, 他实际只能把自己的头理了
they just end up getting their own haircut. 显然  不止理发是这样
Of course, it's not just special about haircuts. 例如你要接受摘除肾结石的手术
Talk about getting your kidney stones removed. 没有人可以代替我移除我的肾结石
Nobody else can get my kidney stones removed for me. 我是唯一能移除我肾结石的人
I'm the only one who can get my kidney stones removed for me. 再例如吃午饭
Think about eating lunch. 没有人能代替我吃午饭
Nobody can eat my lunch for me. 如果有人吃了我的午饭
If somebody else tries to eat my lunch, 最终  会变成他自己的午饭
they end up--it becomes their lunch. 他吃了自己的午饭
They've eaten their lunch for themselves. 除我以外没有人能代替我吃午饭
Nobody can eat my lunch for me except for me. 如果你接着想
If you think about it, 似乎所有事情都是这样
it's true about just about everything. 也许的确可以推广到所有事情
Maybe indeed everything. 当你强调"我"这个词时
If you emphasize the word "My" enough, 没有人能够代替我做
nobody can do much of anything 只有我能做的事
for me and still have it be my such and such. 简而言之
In short, 即使没有人能够经历我的死亡
even though it's true that nobody can die my death for me, 这也不是一个死亡所独有的深刻见解
this isn't some deep insight into the special nature of death. "我"这个词只是一个
It's just a trivial grammatical 无聊的语法点而已
point about the meaning of the word "My." 好了 还记得我们现在讨论到哪了吗
All right, remember where we're at. 我们在寻找
We're looking for "人都会孤独死去"这个说法的解释
interpretations of the claim "Everyone dies alone." 目前我们已经离题太远了
And by now we've gone rather far 偏离了寻找这个解释的主题
afield in the search for an interpretation of that claim. 只是我们仍未找到一个说法
But we have not yet been able to find a claim, 一个解释
an interpretation, 它真实
which is true, 有趣并且为死亡所独有
interesting, fairly special about death, 而非适用于所有事物
as opposed to trivially true about everything, 它同时还能给予我们某种
and giving us some relatively 关于死亡的深刻见解
interesting insight into the nature of death. 我无法从"人都会孤独死去"
I can't see it for the claim 这话中得其要义
"Everyone dies alone." 至少在我们试图从字面上
At least not if we try to take these claims fairly literally 或是在形而上学中
or take them to be metaphysical claims 探究有关死亡的本质问题时毫无斩获
about the nature of death. 但也许我太过武断
But maybe I've just been flatfooted here in 觉得这个说法太过强调无关他人
thinking that this is some sort of claim about not being with others, 只着眼于自身
or things I do by myself. 也许"人都会孤独死去"
Maybe the claim "We all 是一种隐喻
die alone" is intended as a kind of metaphor. 意思并不是我们都将孤独死亡
It's not that we all really do die alone. 而是说我们死时
It's that when we die, 都会感到孤独
it's as though we were alone. 好像我们只身一人
It's like being alone. 也许这句话是一个心理学上的说法
Maybe the claim "We all die alone" is a psychological claim, 指代一种心理状态
that the psychological state we are in 表达我们死时的孤独心理
when we die is similar to loneliness. 好比许多情况下
It's similar to the feeling of being alone 我们感到孤独一样
that we have in various situations. 如果这说法成立  它便趣味十足
Now, that would be interesting if it was true. 我们死亡时
Is it true that when we die 是否都会感到孤独
we all die having this feeling of loneliness, 或者产生疏离感呢
or perhaps feeling of alienation? 我们很容易想到某人弥留之际
It's easy enough to imagine somebody 许多人伴其左右
who is surrounded by other people as he's dying. 可尽管如此
And yet, for all that, 某人仍会感到分离  隔阂
feels removed, distant, 与他人疏理开来
alienated from the others, 即使置身于人群之中也会感到孤独
feels lonely even in the crowd. 所有人都会这样吗
Is that true of all of us? 记住  我们是寻找一个解释
Remember, we're looking for a claim that says, 使得"每个人都孤独死去"
that makes it true, 这句话成立
that everyone dies alone. 所有人临死时都会感到隔阂与疏远吗
Is it true that everyone dies feeling distant and removed? 也许伊万里奇是这样
Maybe it was true of Ivan Ilyich. 伊万里奇感到与他的
Ivan Ilyich progressively grows 朋友和家人越来越有距离
more and more distant from his family and friends who, 甚至在心理上排斥他们
indeed, remove themselves psychologically from him. 面对死亡时他感到孤独寂寞
He faces his death with a feeling of alienation and being alone. 这是个隐喻
It's a metaphor, 也是他内心的深刻剖析
but still an important insight into his psychology. 而我们要问的是
The question we have to ask is, "所有人都是如此吗
"Is that true of everybody? 是否所有人死前
Is it true that everybody 心理上都会感到孤独"
dies alone in this psychological sense?" 似乎并不是这样
It doesn't seem to be true. 首先  请注意  显然
First of all, notice the obvious point 有些人在梦中意外死去
that sometimes people die in their sleep, unexpectedly. 他们不是病死
They weren't ill. 只是睡着时心脏停止跳动
They just die of cardiac arrest while they're sleeping. 可以合理推测
Such a person presumably is 这个人死时没有感到孤独或疏远
not feeling lonely or alienated while he dies. 也许你又说  "那好
Well, you might say, "Okay, 我们是说那些死时依旧清醒的人
what we meant was anybody who's awake while they're dying, 会感到孤独"  那还是错的
dies alone." That's not true either. 例如你正在过马路
You're crossing the street, 跟你的朋友闲聊
talking to your friend, 聊得十分投入
engaged in lively discussion. 你太过投入
So lively, 以至于没注意到一辆卡车正朝你开来
you don't notice the truck that's about to hit you. 卡车撞到你
The truck hits you, 你毫无痛苦立刻就死了
you die, painlessly and immediately. 那么  在最后时刻你感到孤独寂寞了吗
Well, were you feeling alienated and distant during your final moments? 貌似你没有
No, it doesn't seem right either. 因此说所有人死时
So it certainly doesn't seem true to say that 都感到孤独是不对的
everybody dies feeling these psychological feelings of loneliness. 好吧  也许我们应该
Well, maybe what we should 再修改一下这个说法
have to do is revise the claim yet again. 所有在死亡时清醒的人
Everybody who dies awake, 对自己的死亡有所认知
realizing that they're dying, 能够面对自己死亡的事实
facing the fact that they're dying, 如此一番  这个说法就能成立
they all, we all of whom that's true, 人都会孤独地死去
we all die alone, 只要我们能认知自己的死亡
as long as we realize we're dying. 这样就摈弃了睡眠死亡
That would take care of the sleep case. 也排除了卡车事故
That would take care of the truck case. 这回它对了吗
Is the claim true then? 即便我们已经加了如此多的条件
It would still be interesting if it was true, 这说法仍然十分有趣  如果它成立的话
even given those restrictions. 但它还是错的
But it doesn't seem true then either. 想想苏格拉底
Again, just recall Socrates. 苏格拉底与他的朋友们展开哲学辩论
Socrates is engaged in philosophical discussion with his friends, 他知道自己会死  却还喝下毒药
knows he's about to die. He's drunk the hemlock. 喝完后他坐在那里同所有人告别
He's sitting there saying goodbye to everybody. 他好像并没被疏远
He doesn't seem alienated. 他看起来并没有感到疏离和孤独
He doesn't seem to be feeling distant and alone. 因此说所有知道自己会死的人死前
It just doesn't seem true that everybody who 都会感到孤独也是错的
knows they're going to die and is facing their death feels lonely. 另一个哲学家的例子
Another example of this is another philosopher, 戴维·休姆
David Hume, 我们学期末会读到他的文章
whom we'll be reading at the end of the semester. 关于自杀的论文
We'll be reading his essay on suicide. 休姆罹患重病
Hume died, 即将死去
had an illness. 死前他仍然很随和
He was quite sociable to the end. 他曾经把人们叫到他床前
He used to bring people in to sit 与他们谈论各种问题
around his deathbed talking about various matters with him. 死前他十分愉快
He was cheerful and pleasant to the end. And there's, 我个人认为
as far as I can see, 他没有任何理由会感到孤独
no reason at all to believe that he was feeling lonely, 感到疏远
feeling distant, 感到与他的朋友们疏离
feeling alienated from the people who were keeping him company. 因此我认为心理学读物
So the psychological reading 也无法作出有力的解释
doesn't do any better, as far as I can see. 也许还有另一些解释
Well, maybe there's some other interpretation, 但我请你们回想一下问题
and I invite you to reflect on the question. 我们所有人都会孤独地死去吗
Is it true that we all die alone? 有没有办法能确认这个说法
Is there some way of understanding that claim where it's true, 使其成为必然真理
a necessary truth, 特殊并且独一无二
fairly special and unique, 即便不是独一无二
if not altogether unique, 至少也是为死亡特有
at least fairly special about death, 并揭示某些关于死亡本质的深刻道理
showing us some deep insight into the nature of death 而不是随便抛出一些肤浅的
--as opposed to some trivial insight about 强调"我"这个词的办法呢
the way the possessive first person pronoun "My" Works? 我没找到
I can't find it. 所以尽管人们常说
So despite the fact that the claim "We "所有人都会孤独死去"
all die alone" is one of these things that one hears, 但我觉得这简直就是胡扯
I think it's just nonsense. 我认为人们不假思索
I think it's people talking without giving 就随意脱口而出
a moment's thought to what they meant when they said it. 好了  我们说到哪了
All right, where are we? 课程的前半段
For the first half of the course, 我们粗略地讨论了形而上学
we've been engaged in metaphysics, broadly speaking. 我们试图弄清人的本质是什么
We've been trying to get clear about the nature of the person, 我们到底由什么组成
what we're composed of, 之后我们又试着了解
so that we could then try to get clearer 生存的本质以及人格同一性
about the nature of survival and identity of persons, 以便于我们从形而上学的角度
so that we could think about the nature of death, 思考死亡的本质
metaphysically speaking. 我们死时会怎样
What happens when we die? 你们都知道
And as you know, 我是唯物主义的拥护者
I've defended the physicalist conception, 相信我们都是
according to which all we are 拥有特定功能的肉体
are just bodies capable of doing some fancy tricks, 具有运行人体功能的肉体
capable of P-functioning. 大致上说
And details aside, 死亡就是肉体遭到破坏
death is a matter of the body breaking, 从而无法再执行人体功能的过程
so that it's no longer able to engage in P-functioning. 可以看出
As we saw, 根据人格同一性理论中的
depending on the particular details of which theory of personal identity 肉体理论  大脑理论
you accept -the body view, the brain view, 抑或人格理论
the personality theory of personal identity 我们也许会以下问题抱持不同的看法
--we might have to say slightly different 即  肉体死亡是否意味着我不再存在
things about whether the death of my body means I no longer exist, 是否应该将肉体死亡
whether we should distinguish the death of the body, 与个人死亡区分开  等等
the death of the person, and so forth. 我们先暂且不论细节  粗略说来
But those details aside, roughly speaking, 以下要点皆成立
the following is true. 当肉体消亡时
When the body breaks, 我便不再作为人而存在
I cease to exist as a person. 即使我们认为
And even if we can hold out 复活在逻辑上是成立的
the logical possibility of my being resurrected 或者只要人格不变
--or my continuing to exist with 即使身处另一具肉体中我仍然存在
a different body as long as it's got my personality, 如果你接受人格理论
if you happen to accept the personality theory 即使在逻辑上
--even though there is the logical 长生不老和死而复生皆有可能
possibility of surviving my death or coming back to life, 我也不相信
I see no good reason to believe 这种可能性的确存在
that those logical possibilities are actual. 我认为
As far as I can see, 肉体死亡后
when my body dies, 就都结束了  作为肉体理论的支持者
that's it. As a fan of the body view, 我相信自己些许还能再存在一会儿
I believe I'll still exist for a while. 以尸体的形式存在
I'll exist as a corpse. 但这种存在
But that's not the kind 对我来说简直不值一提
of thing about existence that mattered to me. 我真正关注的
In terms of what mattered to me, 并非只是我存在
what I wanted was not just that I exist, 而是我活着
but that I be alive, 作为一个人活着
indeed be a person, 并且拥有我的人格
indeed be a person with pretty much the same personality. 但事实却是
And the truth of the matter is, 当肉体消亡后  一切都变为过往云烟
when my body dies, that's all history. 关于形而上学  我们就谈到这么多
That's where we're at in terms of the metaphysics. 将以上内容稍作提炼得出  一旦我死了
We could summarize this by saying, when I die, 就不再存在了
I cease to exist. 这的确有点误导性
That's a little bit misleading, 因为根据我刚才概述的理论
given the view I just sketched where 我死后仍会作为尸体存在一会儿
even though I'm dead I still exist for a while as a corpse. 但这都不会影响到接下来要讨论的问题
But those issues won't concern us in what we're about to turn to. 为了避免纠缠于这些难题
Let's just suppose that, 我们假设
for the sake of avoiding those complications, 当肉体死亡时
that when my body dies, 人就毁灭了
it gets destroyed. 因此肉体灭亡的这一刻
And so the very same moment will be the end of my body, 我也不复存在
the end of my existence, 我的人格特质也就消失了
the end of my personhood. 我们假设人格
Let's suppose that my personality 并没有在肉体消亡前遭到破坏
doesn't get destroyed any sooner than the death of my body. 于是我们现处于存在的最后时刻
We've got the end of my existence. 这才是我们现在所关注的
Here I am going along. 一个炸弹突然把我炸飞
The atomizer comes along, blows me up. 与此同时
Then simultaneously, 作为人来说我已经死了
we've got the death of my person, 我的肉体死亡
the death of my body, 有关我的一切都结束了
the end of what matters to me, 我不再存在
the end of my existence. 死亡就是终结
Death is the end. 即便这些事件
And even though these things can come across 可能只是偶然事件
--can come apart slightly under certain scenarios, 但这些细节并不影响我们将要讨论的事情
those details won't matter for what we're about to turn to. 那么我们要讨论什么
Well, what are we about to turn to? 我们将会讨论价值观理论
We're about to turn to value theory. 我们花了半个学期
We spent the first half of the semester, you might say, 试着搞清一些形而上的问题
trying to get clear about the metaphysical facts. 下面我们将要竭尽全力
And now that we've done that as best we can, 转战到伦理道德和价值问题上来
we want to turn to the ethical or value questions. 死亡究竟是好是坏
How good or bad is death? 貌似我们都认为死亡是坏
Why is--I take it, we all believe death is bad. 死亡为什么是坏
Why is death bad? 死亡之坏在哪里
How can death be bad? 这便是本课程的分水岭
So this is the big continental divide for the course. 第一部分讨论形而上学问题
The first half of the class was metaphysics. 下面将讨论价值问题
Now we turn to value questions. 我们首先
And the first question 关注的问题就是
we're going to be focusing on is just this, 死亡之坏
the question of the badness of death. 死亡究竟坏在哪里
How and in what ways is death bad? 假设大部分人都认为死亡是坏的
I take it, most of us do believe that death is bad. 正因如此  就有人相信
That's why we wish--maybe some of us believe, 或说许多人都希望
but at the very least the rest of us, many of us hoped 灵魂存在
--there were souls, 那样的话  死亡就不再是终点
so that death wouldn't have to be the end. 如果死亡是人的终结
If death is the end, 那似乎太恐怖不过
that seems to be horrible. 因此我们就要问
So we're going to turn to questions like this. 死亡究竟坏在哪里
How and in what ways is death bad? 然后我们将要讨论
And then we're going to turn to the question, 长生不老真有那么好吗
is it really true that immortality would be good? 最后  我们会讨论其它价值观问题
And eventually, we'll turn to some other value 假如死亡的确是终结
questions about if death really is the end, 我们应该惧怕死亡吗
should we be afraid of death? 我认为惧怕死亡极为普遍
I take it that fear of death is quite common. 我们还将谈及各种情绪并
But we can actually evaluate different emotions and 思考这些情绪反应是否合理
think about whether these emotional responses are appropriate or not, 进而探究惧怕死亡的合理性
so we can ask whether or not fear of death is appropriate. 最终我们将要问自己
We'll turn eventually to the question, 如果死亡就是终结  我们应该如何生存
how should we live in light of the fact that death is the end? 最后一个问题就是
And the last question we'll turn to is, 自杀是否合情合理
could it ever make sense to kill ourselves? 以上这些道德和价值问题
So these are the kind of moral or value 便是我们下半学期的学习内容
questions we'll be concerned with until the end of the term. 第一个问题很简单
But the first one is simply, 死亡是坏事吗  像我们经常说的那样
is death bad, as we typically take it to be, 如果是
and, if so, 是什么使它成为坏事
what is it about it that makes it bad? 所以
So again, 假设我刚刚回顾的那些个
I'm going to suppose here on out that 形而上学的观点是正确的
the metaphysical view that I've been sketching is right; 唯物主义是对的
that physicalism is true. 肉体死亡后我就不存在了
The death of my body is the end of my existence as a person. 死亡就是我的终结
Death is my end. 如果这点成立
Well, if that's right, 那么究竟有哪些死亡之坏呢
how can it be bad for me to die? 归根结底
After all, 我一旦死了
once I'm dead, 就不存在了
I don't exist. 如果我不存在
If I don't exist, 死亡又怎么会对我有坏处呢
how can it be bad for me that I'm dead? 如果你认为你死后仍会存在
It's easy to see how you might think, 你死亡之坏的担忧
how you might worry about the badness of death, 似乎很容易理解
if you thought you would survive your death. 如果你相信存在灵魂
Now, if you believed in a soul, 也许你会担心
then you might worry about, 哦  上帝  我死后我的灵魂会怎样啊
well, gosh what's going to happen to my soul after I die? 会上天堂吗
Am I going to make it up to heaven? 还是下地狱呢
Am I going to go to hell? 也许你会担心
You might worry about how 死后到底会变得怎样
badly off you're going to be once you're dead. 这些问题完全合理
The question makes perfect sense. 但对于
But it's often seemed to people 相信死亡就是终结的我们来讲
that if we really believe that death is the end 我需要在此作出假设
--and that's the assumption that I'm making here on out 我们坚信死亡即是终结
--if we really believe death is the end, 它又有哪些坏处呢
how can death be bad for me? 我死后又会产生哪些坏处呢
How could anything be bad for me once I'm dead? 如果我不存在了  它就不可能对我有害
If I don't exist, it can't be bad for me. 有些时候人们
Well, sometimes in response to this thought, 对此问题的看法是
people respond by saying, "死亡并非对死者有害
"Look, death isn't bad for the person who's dead. 而是对活着的人有害"
Death is bad for the survivors." 约翰的死对他自己来说没什么不好
John's death isn't bad for John. 只是对那些
John's death is bad for the people who 爱他却又失去他的人们有害
loved John and now have to continue living without John. 约翰的死对他的朋友和家人有害
John's death is bad for John's friends and family. 当某人死亡
When somebody dies, 我们便无法再和他产生互动
we lose the chance to continue interacting with the person. 无法再和他谈话
We're no longer able to talk with them, 和他一起
spend time with them, 看电影
watch a movie, 观日落
look at the sunset, 一起欢笑
have a laugh. 我们再也无法
We're no longer able to tell 向他们诉苦并聆听他们的建议
our troubles with them and get their advice. 我们再也无法与他们交流
We're no longer able to interact with them. 人一旦死了  这一切都消失了
All that's gone, when somebody dies. 也许这就是死亡之坏的核心
And the claim might be, that's the central bad of death. 并不在于死去的人
Not what it does for the person who dies. 对死者本身无害
It's not bad for the person who dies. 只针对活着的人
It's what it does for the rest of them, 那些存活的人
the rest of us. 我并非要贬低伤痛
Now, i don't in any way want to belittle the importance of the pain 那些某人死后关心他的人
and suffering that happen for the rest of us 所经历的伤痛的重要性
when somebody that we care about dies. 我先想花点时间念首诗
Indeed, let me take a moment and 来强化这种思想
read a poem that emphasizes this thought, 因为这的确是
because this is certainly one central, 死亡的一个主要坏处
very bad thing about death. 死亡夺走了我们的朋友
It robs us of our friends 他从我们身边夺走我们的朋友和爱人
--we, the survivors— it robs us of our friends and loved ones. 念首诗
Poem. 诗的名字叫《分离》
The poem is called Separation, 一位德国诗人
by the German poet, 克洛普施托克所写
Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock. 这是你们学期后期所要读的一个作品
This is in one of the essays you'll be reading later in the semester by 沃尔特·考夫曼的《无畏的死亡》中的一段诗
Walter Kaufmann--he quotes it --Death Without Dread. 诗中主题  即  分离
The poem, as I say, is Separation. 当尸体经过我们时你是如此紧张
You turned so serious when the corpse was carried past us; 你惧怕死亡吗 "不  我不怕"
are you afraid of death? "Oh, not of that!" 那你害怕什么  "害怕垂死"
Of what are you afraid? "Of dying." 我不怕那些  "你什么都不怕吗"
I not even of that. "Then you're afraid of nothing?" 我也有所担心
Alas, I am afraid, 担心  "担心什么"
afraid?"Heavens, of what?" 担心与朋友们分离
Of parting from my friends. 不只担心自己
And not mine only, 还有失去我之后的他们
of their parting, too. 这是为何我比你更加紧张
That's why I turned more serious even than you did, 在灵魂深处
deeper in the soul, 当尸体经过我们时
when the corpse was carried past us 这就是《分离》
The poem is called Separation. 根据克洛普施托克的说法
According to Klopstock, 死亡的主要坏处是失去朋友
the crucial badness of death is losing your friends. 他们死后
When they die, 你就失去了他们
you lose them. 如我所说  我不想贬低
And as I say, i don't in any way want to belittle 这个死亡的主要坏处
the central badness of that. 但我认为这并不是
But I don't think it can be 死亡之坏的核心部分
at the core in terms of what's bad about death. 我不认为这是说
I don't think that can 死亡有害的主要原因
be the central fact about why death is bad. 为说明这点
And to see this, 我给你们讲两个故事
let me tell you two stories. 进行一下对比
Compare them. 第一个故事
Story number one. 你的朋友将要登上太空船
Your friend is about to go on the spaceship 去探索木星什么的
which is going to do the exploration of Jupiter or whatever. 他们要去很多年
And they're going to be gone for years, 很多很多年
years and years. 时间长到等飞船回来
It takes so long that by the time the spaceship comes back, 都是100年后了
100 years will have gone by. 也许不是木星  比木星还要远
Maybe it's not Jupiter. It's farther away. 更糟糕的是
Worse still, 飞船起飞20分钟后
after about 20 minutes after the ship takes off, 便与地球失去通讯联系了
all radio contact between ship and earth will be destroyed. 这不大可能
It won't be possible, 因为中间存在速度因素
because of the speed. 它没去木星
It's not going to Jupiter. 而是去了其它星系
It's going to some other planetary system. 因此所有可能的通讯都断了
So, all possibility of communication will be destroyed. 这很恐怖
Now, this is horrible. 你失去了你最好的朋友
You're losing your closest friend. 你再也无法与他们谈话
You will no longer be able to talk to them, 分享快乐
share the moments, 聆听他们的意见
get their insights and advice. 你再也无法
You'll no longer be able to 向他们介绍你的近况
tell them about the things that have been going on. 这和克洛普施托克所说的分离
It's the same kind of 差不多
separation that Klopstock was talking about. 十分恐怖
Horrible, 令人悲伤
and it's sad. 这是第一个故事
That was story number one. 第二个故事
Story number two, 背景与第一个一样
just like story number one, 飞船起飞了
the spaceship takes off, 但15分钟后  因重大故障船体爆炸
and about 15 minutes later, it explodes in a horrible accident 飞船上的所有人  包括你朋友都死了
and everybody on the spaceship, including your friend, is killed. 我认为第二个故事结局更坏
Now, I take it that story number two is worse. 某些更坏的事情发生了
Something worse has taken place. 那么  什么是更坏的事
Well, what's the worse thing? 和第一个故事相同
We've got of course the very 都是你跟朋友分离了
same separation we had in story number one. 都无法再与朋友联系
I can't communicate in the future with my friend. 朋友也无法联系上你
They can't communicate with me. 但第一个故事的结局就是这样
But we had that already in story number one. 倘若第二个故事的确有什么更坏之处的话
If there's something worse about story number two, 我觉得也肯定不在于分离本身
and I think it's pretty clear there is something worse, it's not the separation. 而是你朋友已经死亡这个事实
It's something about the fact that your friend has died. 显然
Now of course, 这对我
this is worse for me, 一个关心朋友的人来讲更糟糕
as somebody who cares about my friend, 因为他已经死了
that he's died. 但他的死亡
But the explanation of what's bad for me, 不单给我带来坏处
in his having died, 同时也作用于他自己
is the fact that it's bad for him to have died. 而对他的坏处也不仅仅是
And the badness for him isn't just a matter of separation, 故事一里面的分离而已
because that we already had in number one. 我们无法与他联系
We couldn't communicate with him. 他也无法与我们联系
He couldn't communicate with us. 如果想要知道死亡的根本坏处
If we want to get at the central badness of death, 我认为我们不能把注意力放在分离的坏处
it seems to me, we can't focus on the badness of separation, 以及对生者的坏处上
the badness for the survivors. 我们应该考虑
We have to think about how is it, 到底死亡对死者本身有何坏处
how could it be true, that death is bad for the person that dies? 那才是死亡的根本坏处
That's the central badness of death 那才是我们关注的焦点
and that's the one I'm going to have us focus on. 死亡究竟对死者本身有何坏处
How could it be true that death is bad for the person that dies? 这便是我们下节课要讨论的问题
That's the question we turn to next time. 



 Chapter 16: 死亡之害（二）：剥夺性解释


上次我们从形而上学转而讲述价值理论
Last time we made the turn from metaphysics to value theory. 我们开始讨论为什么死亡是件坏事
We started asking about what it is about death that makes it bad. 我们谈到死亡的第一个坏处是
The first aspect of the badness of death that we talked about was 当某人死去
the fact that when somebody dies, 活着的人会感到痛苦
that's hard on the rest of us. 我们活着  必须承受
We're left behind having to cope with 失去所爱之人的痛苦
the loss of this person that we love. 然而  如果我们想明确
Nonetheless, it seems likely that if we want to get clear 死亡的主要坏处
about the central badness of death, 那么  活人的损失并不是关键
it can't be a matter of the loss for those who remain behind, 关键是那些死去的人
but rather the loss, 死亡给他们带来的伤害
the badness of death, for the person who dies. 总之
That, at any rate, 这才是我今后要关注的问题
is what I want to focus on from here on out. 我的死亡
What exactly is it about my death, 或者我会死去的事实
or the fact that I'm going to die, 为什么对我来说是坏事
that makes that bad for me? 现在  我希望明确限定
Now, I want to get clear about precisely 我们这里讨论的问题
what it is we want to focus in on here. 很明显  死亡可能带来的一种伤害是
Now, one thing that could be bad, obviously, 死亡过程会造成痛苦
is the process of dying could be a painful one. 比方说  可能
It might be, for example, 我被一只孟加拉虎撕成碎片
that I get ripped to pieces by Bengali tigers. 如果是这样  那死亡过程会很可怕
And if so, then the actual process of dying would be horrible. 很痛苦
It would be painful. 如此  将死亡过程看作
And clearly it makes sense to talk about the process of dying as 可能对我造成伤害  符合情理
something that could potentially be bad for me. 但是同样  我也可能在睡眠中死去
Although similarly, I might die in my sleep, 这种死亡过程对我没有伤害
in which case the process of dying would not be bad for me. 无论如何  我认为我们大多数人
At any rate, I take it that most of us, 虽然可能有过这种顾虑
although we might have some passing concern about the possibility 认为我们的死亡过程会是痛苦的
that our process of dying might be a painful one, 但这也不是
that's not, again, 当我们面对死亡时
the central thing we're concerned about when 所担心的根本问题
we face the fact that we're going to die. 而且
It's also true, of course, 我们会发现  在这里
that many of us find--; here, 现在  虽然我们还没死
right now, while we're not actually dying-- 但想到我会死去这件事仍让我感到不快
the prospect of dying to be unpleasant. 所以  死亡对我的另一个坏处就是
So, one of the things that's bad about my death for me is 现在  当我想到我可能会死去时
that right now I've got some unhappy thoughts as 我感到不快
I anticipate the fact that I'm going to die. 但是
But again, 这依然不是死亡的主要坏处
that can't be the central thing that's bad about death, 因为想到死亡
because the prospect of my death-- 会产生难过或悲伤的情绪
it makes sense for that to be a painful one or an unpleasant one, 这只能更进一步说明死亡本身是件坏事
only given the further claim that death itself is bad for me. 我会害怕  焦虑  担心  遗憾
Having fear or anxiety or concern or regret 或苦闷  如此这般  当我想到
or anguish or whatever it is that maybe I have now 自己难逃一死时
about the fact that I'm going to die, 都基于这样一个逻辑前提
piggybacks on the logically prior thought 就是死亡本身对我是件坏事
that death itself is bad for me. 如果不是基于这样一个前提
If it didn't piggyback in that way, 那所有这些对死亡的恐惧
it wouldn't make any sense to have fear 焦虑  畏惧  苦闷  或无论什么
or anxiety or dread or anguish or whatever it is 就没有道理了
that I may have now. 比方说  我告诉你
I mean, suppose I said to you, "明天你会碰到件事
"Tomorrow something's going to happen to you 这件事非常好
and that thing is going to be simply fantastic, 好得难以置信  不可思议"
absolutely incredible, absolutely wonderful." 然后你说
And you said, "好吧  我相信你  但我要告诉你
"Well, I believe you and I have to tell you, 我一想到这件事就觉得担忧害怕"
I'm just filled with dread and foreboding in thinking about it." 这完全不合情理
That wouldn't make any sense at all. 你感到担忧害怕
It makes sense to be filled with dread or foreboding or what have you only 只有当你想到的事情
if the thing you're looking forward to, 本身是坏事时才合情理
anticipating, is itself bad. 例如
Maybe, for example, 你害怕去看牙
it makes sense to dread going to the dentist, 那是因为你相信看牙是件痛苦的事
if you believe that being at the dentist is a painful, unpleasant experience. 如果看牙本身并不可怕
But if being at the dentist isn't itself unpleasant, 那你想到看牙就害怕就不合情理了
it doesn't make sense to dread it in anticipation. 所以  如果我们想找到死亡的主要坏处
So again, if we're thinking about the central badness of death, 我们似乎应该关注死亡本身
it seems to me that we've got to focus on my being dead. 是什么使我的死亡如此可怕
What is it about my being dead that's bad for me? 现在  如果我们提出这个问题
Now, if we pose that question, 答案似乎
it seems as though the 简单明了
answer should be simple and straightforward. 当我死去  我不复存在
When I'm dead, I won't exist. 在本课程的前一部份
Now previously, in the first part of the class, 我们讨论过这个问题
we spent some time saying that, 某些观点认为
look, on certain views, 在某段时间里  你可能已经死了
there'll be a period of time in which you might be dead, 但你的肉体却活着
but your body might still be alive. 或者你已经死了
Or you might be dead, 虽然你的肉体还存在
but even though your body still exists, 但它不是活着的  而是作为尸体存在
it's not alive, but you exist as a corpse. 咱先将这些束之高阁
Put all that aside. 不考虑这些模糊不清的
Go to the period beyond any of that murky stuff 短期的状态
in the short-term and just, 仅简单地
for simplicity, 从物理主义角度来看  我一旦死亡
let's suppose with the physicalists that once I die, 我将不复存在
I cease to exist. 好的
All right. 那我们不就找到了死亡的坏处了吗
So, don't we have the answer to what's bad about death right there? 当我死去  我将不复存在
When I'm dead, I won't exist. 这不是对死亡坏处的
Isn't that the straightforward 最直白的解释吗
explanation about why death is bad? 我想说的实际上是
Now, what I want to say, in effect, is this. 我真的相信"不复存在"这一说法解释了
I do think the fact that I won't exist does provide the key 死亡为何是坏事以及它的坏处究竟是什么
to getting clear about how and why death is bad. 但我并不认为这个答案很直白
But I don't think it's quite straightforward. 我认为  正如我们将要看到的
I think, as we'll see, 我们需要花些功夫才能证明
it actually takes some work to spell out exactly 为什么死亡  不存在
how death, how nonexistence, 对我来讲是件坏事
could be bad for me. 即使证明了这一点
And even having done that, 也仍然存在一些疑难
there'll be some puzzles that remain 这些将稍后讲解
that we'll be turning to in a little while. 所以  基本思路看起来很直白
So, the basic idea seems to be straightforward enough. 当我死去  我将不复存在
When I'm dead, I won't exist. 不存在是件坏事  难道不是吗
Isn't it clear that nonexistence is bad for me? 但是你很快会碰到质疑
Well, immediately you get an objection. 不存在有什么不好呢
You say, how could nonexistence be bad for me? 毕竟
After all, 不存在就意味着你不存在
the whole point of nonexistence is you don't exist. 当你不存在时
How could anything be bad for you 怎么可能有事情对你不好呢
when you don't exist? 难道没有一种逻辑前提指出
Isn't there a kind of logical requirement 当一件事对你是坏事
that for something to be bad for you, 你需要活着才能受到它的伤害
you've got to be around to receive that bad thing? 例如  头疼对你是件坏事
A headache, for example,can be bad for you. 但是头疼时你肯定存在
But of course, you exist during the headache. 头疼不可能对不存在的人造成伤害
Headaches couldn't be bad for people who don't exist. 他们不可能经历或感受到头疼
They can't experience or have or receive headaches. 当你不存在时
How could anything be bad for you 有什么事可能伤害到你呢
when you don't exist? 特别是
And in particular, 当你不存在时
then, how could nonexistence be bad for you 所谓的不存在又怎么可能伤害到你呢
when you don't exist? 所以  正如我所说
So it's not, as I say, 答案看起来很直接明了
altogether straightforward to see how the answer "死亡对我是件坏事
"Death is bad for me, 因为当我死去  我将不复存在"
because when I'm dead I don't exist," how that answers the problem, 但完全不直接明了的问题是
as opposed to simply focusing our attention on the problem 为什么不存在对我就是坏事呢
how can nonexistence be bad for me? 对这个质疑的回答
The answer to this objection, 我想可以通过区别
I think, is to be found in drawing a distinction 两种不同性质的
between two different ways 坏事来解释
in which something can be bad for me. 一种坏事是
On the one hand, something can be bad for me, 我们可以说是绝对的
we might say, in an absolute, 固有的  内在的坏事
robust, intrinsic sense. 再举头疼的例子
Take a headache, again, 或其它地方的疼痛
or some other kind of pain-- 碰到脚趾  或者被刺伤  或无论什么
stubbing your toe or getting stabbed or whatever it is, 被折磨
being tortured. 疼痛本身对我有害
Pain is intrinsically bad. 它本身就是坏的
It's bad in its own right. 我们因其本身的原因想避免被其伤害
It's something we want to avoid for its own sake. 通常情况下
And those--; Normally, 伤害你的事情是由于它们本身是坏事
things that are bad for you are bad intrinsically. 它们的害处源于其本身
They're bad by virtue of their very nature. 源于它们存在的方式
There's something about the way they are 是那种你因其本身原因而想避免的东西
that you don't want those that are bad in their own right. 但还有另一种坏事
But there's another way of something being bad for you 很容易被忽略
that it's easy to overlook. 它们是通过比较才能察觉的坏事
Something can be bad comparatively. 一件事是坏事可能是因为
Something could be bad because of 这件事使你丧失了其它东西
what you're not getting while you get this bad thing. 这就是经济学家们所说的
It could be what the economists call bad "机会成本"上的损失
by virtue of "The opportunity costs." 它不是那种固有的坏事
It's not that it's intrinsically bad; 它之所以不好是因为当你做这件事时
it's bad because while you're doing this, 你无法获得更好的东西
you're not getting something better. 这怎么可能呢
How could that be? 我们来举一个简单的例子
Let's have a simple example. 假如我在家看电视
Suppose that I stay home and watch something on TV-- 比方说《一掷千金》这个节目
Deal or No Deal. 我看着电视  度过了快乐时光
I watch this on TV and I have a good enough time. 这怎么可能对我是坏事呢
How could that be bad for me? 以第一种定义为标准
Well, in terms of the first notion of bad, 固有的坏事
something being intrinsically bad, 这当然不是坏事
it's not bad. 以这种方式打发半个小时挺安逸的啊
It's a pleasant enough way to spend a half an hour, 不管节目时间多长
or however long the show is on. 但另一方面
On the other hand, 假如我
suppose what I could be 不是看半小时电视
doing instead of watching a half an hour of television 而是参加了一个很棒的派对
is being at a really great party. 那我们可以说
Then we might say, 我窝在家里看电视
the fact that I'm stuck home watching television 相比之下  对我是坏事
is bad for me in this comparative sense. 并不是说看电视本身
It's not that it's, in itself, 是一种不愉快的消磨时间的方式
an unpleasant way to spend some time; 只是我还可能有更好的方式来消磨时间
it's just that there's a better way to spend time that I could be doing, 至少原则上是这样
in principle at least. 如果我去了
If only I'd gone. 如果我被邀请了
If only I'd been invited. 如果我还记得这件事  只要如此
If only I remembered, what have you. 而且我前面说过去派对更好
And because I'm foregoing that better good, 那么相对来说
there's something bad, comparatively speaking, 窝在家里看电视就是件坏事
about the fact that I'm stuck at home watching TV. 失去了更好的东西
There's a lack of the better good. 缺失本身不是坏事
A lack is not intrinsically bad, 但比较起来就是坏事
but it's still a kind of bad in this second sense. 失去美好事物本身对我造成了伤害
To be lacking a good is, itself, bad for me. 类似地  假设我拿两个信封对你说
Similarly, suppose I hold out two envelopes and I say, "选一个"  于是你打开了第一个
"Pick one." And you open up the first one, 你选择了第一个
you pick the first one, 你打开它  你说
and you open it up and you say, "看  十块钱  真不错"
"Hey look, ten bucks! Isn't that good for me?" 当然十块钱本身是很好的
Well, of course, ten bucks is intrinsically good. 或者说  本身不是好的
Anyway, well, it's not intrinsically good, 仅从可以买到东西的角度来说是好的
it's only good as a means to buy something. 但仍然是好的
But it's sort of good. 因为它本身的原因  它值得拥有
It's worth having for its own right, 因为它可以给你带来东西
because of what it can get you. 但你不知道
But if unbeknownst to you, 另一个信封里有一千块钱
the other envelope had $1,000 in it, 那我们可以说
then we can say, "真不幸  你选了第一个信封"
"Look, it's bad for you that you picked the first envelope." 从哪个角度来说你是不幸的呢
Bad in what sense? 因为如果你选择了第二个信封
Because you would have been better off, 你可能会更好
had you picked the second envelope. 你可能拥有更多的好处
You would have been having more good, 更多的好东西
or a greater amount of good. 不存在本身没什么不好
Well, nonexistence can't be bad for me in our first sense. 不存在本身并无坏处
It can't be that nonexistence is intrinsically bad, 我们并不因其本身而回避
worth avoiding for its own sake. 除非不存在本身是
That would only make sense if nonexistence was somehow, 比如说  痛苦的
for example, painful. 但当你不存在时
But when you don't exist, 你也不会感到痛苦
you have no painful experiences. 不存在本身和它内在特性
There's nothing about nonexistence in and of itself 不是我们想避免它的原因
that makes us want to avoid it. 不存在只是相比之下才对我是坏事
Nonexistence is only bad for me in this comparative sense, 因为它造成了损失
because of the lack. 当我不存在时  我失去了某些东西
When I don't exist, I'm lacking stuff. 我失去了什么呢
What am I lacking? 当然
Well, of course, 我失去了生命  更确切地说
what I'm lacking is life and more particularly still, 是生命带来的美好事物
the good things that life can give me. 所以
So, 不存在是件坏事
nonexistence is bad 因为它损失了机会成本
by virtue of the opportunity costs that are involved. 著名的W.C.菲尔兹在墓志铭上说
Famously, W.C. Fields on his tombstone says, "就我个人来说  我更愿意待在费城"
"Personally, I'd rather be in Philadelphia." 死亡的坏处在于  你将无法
What's bad about being dead is you don't get to 经历和享受生活提供给我们的
experience and enjoy any longer the various good things 各种美好事物了
that life would offer us. 所以不存在确实指出了死亡问题的关键
So nonexistence does point to the key aspect about death. 为什么死亡是坏事
Why is death bad? 因为当我死去我将不复存在
Because when I'm dead I don't exist. 但如果我们问
But if we ask, 为什么  并且在什么情况下
why is and how can it be 不存在是坏事
the case that nonexistence is bad? 答案是
The answer is, 当我不存在时
because of the lack of the good things in life. 我失去了生命中美好的事物
Because when I don't exist, 我将无法得到它们
I am not getting the things 那些只要我活着就可以得到的东西
that I could have otherwise gotten, if only I were still alive. 死亡之所以是坏事
Death is bad 是因为它剥夺了我活着时
because it deprives me of 可以得到的美好事物
the good things in life. 这种解释如今
This account is nowadays 被称为死亡坏处的剥夺说
known as the deprivation account of the evil or badness of death, 原因很明显  不是吗
for obvious reasons, right? 其中的关键思想是
The key thought is, 死亡的主要坏处
the central bad about death, 不存在的坏处
about nonexistence, 在于它剥夺了你活着时
is that it deprives you of the goods of life you 可以获得的生活乐趣
might otherwise be getting. 这就是剥夺说
That's the deprivation account. 并且我认为
And it seems to me 剥夺说基本上是正确的
that the deprivation account basically has it right. 后面
Eventually, 我还会继续论证
I'll go on to argue that there are 死亡的其它因素同样导致了它的破坏性
other aspects of death that may also contribute to its badness, 但它们不同于剥夺说
aspects above and beyond the one that gets focused on 所揭示的这些因素
by the deprivation account. 但是不管怎么说
But still, 我认为剥夺说正确地指出了
it seems to me the deprivation account points us correctly 死亡的主要坏处
to the central thing about death that's bad. 死亡最主要的坏处是
What's most importantly bad about the fact 当我死去
that I'll be dead is the fact that when I'm dead, 我将无法获得生活中那些美好的东西
I won't be getting the good things in life. 我将失去它们
I'll be deprived of them. 这是剥夺说所指出的死亡坏处
That's the badness of death according to the deprivation account. 现在  如果我们接受剥夺说
Now, if we accept the deprivation account, 如果我们准备接受剥夺说的话
if we try to accept the deprivation account, 那我们将面临进一步的哲学挑战
we face some further philosophical puzzles. 很多人认为这些挑战
Puzzles that many people have thought are 足以迫使我们最终不得不放弃它
sufficiently overwhelming that we, 尽管剥夺说
despite the initial plausibility of the deprivation account, 乍看起来合情合理
have to give it up. 第一个质疑是
First objection is this. 如果某件事是真实的
Look, if something is true, 一个很普遍的观点
a quite general point, 在形而上学的观点中
it seems, about metaphysics-- 如果某件事是真实的
if something is true, 那总有某个时候它是真实的
there's got to be a time when it's true. 假如我声称一件事是真实的
If I make some claim about a fact, 那总有一些时候它是真实的
there's got to be a time when that fact is true. 比方说这件事
Here's a fact. 雪莱正在向你们讲解死亡的坏处
Shelly's lecturing to you now about the badness of death. 何时这件事是真实的
When is that fact true? 何时这件事曾发生过呢
When was that fact true? 答案是现在
Well, right now. 再看另一件事
Here's another fact. 雪莱曾向你们
Shelly once lectured to you 讲解过人格同一性的本质
about the nature of personal identity. 何时这件事是真的呢
When was that fact true? 我们可以指出一个时间段
Well, we can point to a period of perhaps 可能是上个月的某一两周
a week or two last month 我曾向你们讲解过人格同一性
when I was lecturing to you about personal identity. 真实事件有其发生的时间
Things that are facts can be dated. 好了  似乎如此
All right. That seems right. 但如果这个结论正确
But if it is right, 那我们马上会碰到问题
then immediately we've got a puzzle. 死亡如何对我造成伤害
How could death be bad for me? 如果死亡对我造成伤害
If death was bad for me, 如果这是一个事实
that would be a fact. 如果死亡对我造成伤害
If my death is bad for me, 如果这是个事实
that would be a fact 我们会问  这个事实何时发生
and we'd ask, well, when is that fact true? 我们会说  现在没发生
We might say, well, it's not true now. 因为死亡现在没有伤害我
Death isn't bad for me now. 我还没有死呢
I'm not dead now. 也许当我死了  死亡才对我造成伤害
Maybe death is bad for me when I'm dead? 但这也说不通
But that seems very hard to believe. 我是说  当我死去  我就不复存在了
I mean, when I'm dead, I don't exist, right? 那时又有什么事可能伤害到我呢
How could anything be bad for me then? 你当然得存在了
Surely you've got to exist. 所以  确定死亡造成伤害的时间
So, there's a puzzle about dating 成了一个难题
the badness of death. 这个关于死亡造成伤害
Now, it may be that this puzzle about time 的时间难题
and the date of the badness of death 伊壁鸠鲁可能思考过
is what Epicurus had in mind. 我会给你们读一段
There's a passage that I'm going to read 伊壁鸠鲁的文字
to you in a moment from Epicurus. 这段文字令人费解
This passage has puzzled people, 一直让哲学家们感到疑惑
it has puzzled philosophers ever since. 伊壁鸠鲁似乎明确指出了
Epicurus seems to be putting his finger 有关死亡的一些疑问
on something puzzling about death, 不过难以确定
though it's difficult to pin down exactly 让他纠结的究竟是什么
what it is that's bugging him. 所以我们将尝试一两种解释
So we're going to try an interpretation or two. 但首先  来看看伊壁鸠鲁的这段话
But first, here's the passage from Epicurus. "所以死亡  这最令人恐惧的邪恶
"So death, the most terrifying of ills, 对我们来说不算什么  因为我们存在时
is nothing to us, since so long as we exist, 死亡还未降临  当死亡降临时
death is not with us; but when death comes, 我们已不复存在
then we do not exist. 死亡不涉及生者  也不涉及死者
It does not then concern either the living or the dead, 因为对于前者它还未来
since for the former it is not, 而对于后者一切已不再"
and the latter are no more." 你看  到这里还不完全清楚
You see, it's not altogether clear 伊壁鸠鲁想指出的是什么
what Epicurus is bothered by there, 但有种可能的解释是他指出了
but one possible interpretation is this puzzle about 死亡造成伤害的时间难题
the timing of the badness of death. 现在  死亡没有伤害我
Death can't be bad for me now, 因为我还活着
because I'm alive. 当我死了  死亡也不会伤害我
Death can't be bad for me when I'm dead. 我都不存在了  怎会有事情伤害得到我
I am no more; then how can things be bad for me then? 但如果没有任何时间
But if death has no time 死亡对我造成伤害
at which it's bad for me, 而且如果一件事是真的
and if anything that's true, 这件事必须发生在某个时候
any fact has to have a time when it's true, 那么死亡会伤害我
then the purported fact that death is bad for me 就不是真的
can't really be a fact. 现在  我们如何来回应这一质疑
All right. How could we respond to this objection? 当然一个方法就是接受这一质疑
Well, one way of course is to accept the objection and say, "你是对的
"You're right. 死亡对我来说不会造成伤害"
Death isn't really bad for me." 一些哲学家也确实接受这一观点
And some philosophers have indeed accepted that very conclusion, 伊壁鸠鲁或许也接受
maybe Epicurus. 但大多数人会说
Most of us want to say, "不不  死亡伤害了我"
"No, no. Death is bad for me." 为此我们需要一个更好的解释来回答
So we need a better answer to the, "是吗  那它什么时候伤害了你"
"Oh yeah? When is it bad for you?" objection. 有两种可能的回答
Two possible responses. 一种是
One possible response would 直面问题  承认
be to grab the bull by the horns and say, "死亡伤害了我
"Death is bad for me. 事情都有其存在的时间
Facts do have to be dated. 让我告诉你它什么时候伤害了我"
Let me tell you when it's bad for me." 第二种回答则是
The other possible response is to grab, 从另一个角度说
as it were, the other horn and say, "你知道
"You know, 死亡伤害了我
death is bad for me 并且我承认我无法确定时间
and I agree that I can't date it, 但你假设所有的事情都有其发生的时间
but you're wrong to assume that 这种假设是错的
all facts have to be datable. 有些事的确存在但我们无法确定时间"
There are some things that are true that we can't put a date on." 我们先来讨论第二种回答
Let's start with the second. 是否存在这种
Could there be some things 真实的但我们无法确定时间的事情呢
that are true that we can't put a date on? 我想这可能是一个例子
Well, here's one I think, maybe. 假设我周一向约翰开枪
Suppose that on Monday I shoot John. 从我枪里射出的子弹伤了他
I wound him with the bullet that comes out of my gun. 但并没有射中心脏
But it's not a wound directly into his heart. 他只是开始流血
He simply starts bleeding. 缓慢地流血
And he bleeds slowly. 所以他周一没有死
So he doesn't die on Monday. 他受了伤  奄奄一息
He's wounded and he's dying, 但他周一的时候并没死
but he doesn't die on Monday. 在周二
On Tuesday, 假设我心脏病发作死去
let's suppose that I have a heart attack and I die. 约翰还活着  还在流血
John's still around--bleeding, 但还活着
but still around. 周三时
On Wednesday, 约翰流血过多终于死去
the loss of blood finally overtakes him and John dies. All right? 所以周一我向他开枪  周二我死去
So, I shoot him on Monday, I die on Tuesday, 周三约翰死去
John dies on Wednesday. 现在  我杀了约翰
Now, I killed John. 我假定我们都同意这一点
I take it we're all in agreement about that. 如果我没向他开枪
If I hadn't shot him, 他就不会死
he wouldn't be dead. 是我杀了他
I killed him. 我什么时候杀了他
When did I kill him? 我周一杀了他吗
Did I kill him on Monday, 我向他开枪的那天
the day I shot him? 似乎不对
That doesn't seem right. 他在周一没死
He's not dead on Monday. 我怎么会在周一杀了他
How could I kill him on Monday? 对了  他是周三死的
Oh, he died on Wednesday. 那我周三杀了他吗
Did I kill him on Wednesday? 这更不可能
Well, how could that be? 我在周三的时候甚至不存在
I don't even exist on Wednesday. 我在周二已经死了
I died myself on Tuesday. 我怎么可能在死后杀了他
How can I kill him after I'm dead? 所以我没有在周一杀他
So I didn't kill him on Monday, 也没有在周三杀他
didn't kill him--rather on Wednesday. 我没有在周一杀他
I didn't kill him on Monday, 也没有在周三他死的那天杀他
didn't kill him on Wednesday when he dies. 那我何时杀了他呢
When did I kill him? 答案也许是  根本没有确定的时间
Well, maybe the answer is there's no particular time at all 发生了"我杀死他"这件事
when I killed him. 但即使这样
But for all that, 我杀了他是个事实
it's true that I killed him. 是什么使得我杀了他成为事实的呢
What makes it true that I killed him? 使我杀了他成为事实的是
What makes it true that I killed him is 我周一向他开枪  周三时
that on Monday I shot him and on Wednesday, 他因伤死去
he died from the wound. 所以这一事实成立
That's what makes it true. 但我何时杀了他呢
But when did I kill him? 也许我们无法确定时间
Maybe we can't date that. 假设我们不能
Suppose we can't. 如果我们不能确定
If we can't, 那么就有不能确定时间的事实
then there are facts that you can't date, 如同我杀了约翰这件事
like the fact that I killed John. 如果有无法确定时间的事实存在
If there are facts that you can't date, 或许同样
maybe here's another one. 死亡对我造成伤害也是这样的事实
My death is bad for me. 这一事实何时存在
When is that true? 时间无法确定  但尽管如此
Can't date it, but for all that, 这都可能是事实
maybe it's true. 所以也许我们不应该接受所有事实
So maybe we shouldn't accept the assumption of the argument 都有确定的发生时间这一假设
that all facts can be dated. 当然  所有事实
Of course, the thought that 都有其发生时间这一想法根深蒂固
all facts can be dated is a very powerful one, 而且毫无疑问
and no doubt, 你们许多人回家后都会
many of you are going to go home 试着想出这个问题的满意答案
and start trying to come up with an adequate answer to the question, 雪莱到底是什么时候杀了约翰
when exactly did Shelly kill John? 想出一个你或许能够接受的答案
And come up with an answer, maybe, that you can even accept. 不管怎样
At any rate, 也许我们应该认同
maybe we should accept the thought 所有事实都有其发生的时间
that all facts can be dated. 这样
In which case, 如果我们坚持认为死亡对我造成伤害
if we're going to want to insist that my death is bad for me, 我们最好能指出时间点
we'd better be able to come up with a date. 也许我们能做到这点
Well, maybe we can. 死亡何时对我造成了伤害
When would it be plausible to claim my death is bad for me? 当然  不是现在
Well, not now. 死亡现在不可能伤害我
My death can't be bad for me now. 我还没死
I'm not dead. 但我们不能百分百地肯定
But it's not 100% clear 不能接受另一种说法
that the other alternative isn't acceptable. 为什么不说
Why not say, "当我死去时死亡对我造成了伤害"
"My death is bad for me when I'm dead"? 总之
After all, 头痛何时对我来说是坏事
when is a headache bad for me? 当头痛发作时
When the headache is occurring. 那么依据剥夺说
Now, according to the deprivation account, 死亡的坏处就在  当你死去的时候
the badness of death consists in the fact that when you're dead, 你失去了生活中美好的事物
you are deprived of the goods of life. 那么死亡何时对你造成了伤害呢
So when is death bad for you? 也许是
During the time perhaps 你失去了生活中美好事物的时刻
you're being deprived of the goods of life. 你何时失去了生活中美好的事物呢
Well, when are you deprived of the goods of life? 当你死去之时
When you're dead. 这种失去到底发生在何时呢
When does the deprivation actually occur? 在你死去之时
When you're dead. 所以我们也许应该说
So perhaps we should just say, "你说得对  伊壁鸠鲁"
"Well, you were right, Epicurus," 如果这就是伊壁鸠鲁要指出的问题
if this was Epicurus' argument. "你是对的  伊壁鸠鲁
"You were right, Epicurus. 所有事实都有其发生的时间
All facts have to be dated, 但我们可以确定死亡造成伤害的时间
but we can date the badness of death. 当我死去时死亡对我造成了伤害
My death is bad for me during the time I'm dead. 因为那时
Because during that time, 我被剥夺了
I'm deprived of, 我失去了
I'm not getting, 生活中美好的事物
the good things in life 而只要我活着  我就能拥有它们"
that I would be getting if only I were still alive." 这是对这一质疑的一种可能回答
Well, that's a possible response to the objection. 但是当然
But of course, 它只是立刻引出了一个更深层次的质疑
it just immediately raises a further objection. 死亡如何在那时对我造成伤害呢
How could it be that death is bad for me then? 在我不存在时死亡如何伤害我
How could it be that death is bad for me when I don't exist? 显然  我需要存在  才可能受到伤害
Surely, I have to exist in order for something to be bad for me. 或者  就此而言  才可能得到好处
Or, for that matter, for something to be good for me. 你难道不需要活着来感受
Don't you need to exist in order for something 事物对你是好是坏吗
to be good or bad for you? 这指出了我们对
Well, this points our way 伊壁鸠鲁观点的另一种不同解释
to a different possible interpretation of Epicurus' argument. 这个观点是  A  事物只有在你存在时
The argument would be A something could be bad, 才对你有好坏之分
or for that matter, good for you only if you exist; B  当你死去时你不存在
B when you're dead you don't exist; 所以C  死亡对你不是坏事
so C death can't be bad for you. 我来写在黑板上
Put that up on the board. A  事物只有在你存在时
A Something can be bad for you 才可能对你是坏事
only if you exist. B  当你死去时你不存在
B When you're dead you don't exist. 所以结论C就是
So, conclusion C, 死亡不可能对你是坏事
death can't be bad for you. 也许这就是伊壁鸠鲁脑中的观点
Maybe that's the argument that Epicurus had in mind. 让我们来听听伊壁鸠鲁是怎么说的
Let's hear Epicurus'-- 我再引用这段伊壁鸠鲁的话
the quote from Epicurus again. "所以死亡  这最令人恐惧的邪恶
"So death, the most terrifying of ills, 对我们来说不算什么
is nothing to us, 因为我们存在时
since so long as we exist, 死亡还没降临  当死亡降临时
death is not with us; but when death comes, 我们已不复存在
then we do not exist. 死亡不涉及生者  也不涉及死者
It does not then concern either the living or the dead, 因为对于前者它还未来
since for the former it is not, 而对于后者一切已不再"
and the latter are no more." 伊壁鸠鲁的这段话总的来看有点费解
Again, the passage from Epicurus isn't altogether clear, 但也许他脑中已有了这样的观点
but maybe he's got in mind something like this argument. 也许伊壁鸠鲁想说
Maybe Epicurus thinks look, A  事物只有在你存在时
A something can be bad for you 才可能对你是坏事
only if you exist; B  当你死去时你不存在
B when you're dead you don't exist; 所以C  死亡不可能对你是坏事
so C death can't be bad for you. 对此我们如何回应
Well, what should we say? B显然没错
It's pretty clear that B is true. 当你死去时你不存在
When you're dead you don't exist. 所以结论就是C
And so the conclusion C, 死亡对你不是坏事
death can't be bad for you, 这看起来如果我们承认A就承认了结论
looks like it's going to follow, once we accept A. 我们称A为存在前提
Call A the existence requirement. 事物只有在你存在时
Something can be bad or, 才对你有好坏之分
for that matter, good for you, only if you exist. 这就是影响事物好坏的存在前提
That's the existence requirement for bads and goods. 如果我们接受存在前提
If we accept the existence requirement, 看来我们就得接受
it looks as though we have to accept the conclusion, 死亡对你不是坏事这一结论
death can't be bad for you. 我们该怎么说呢
What should we say? 也许我们会说
Maybe what we should say is, 应该摒弃存在前提
reject the existence requirement. 通常情况下  疼痛  失明
In the ordinary case, pains, being blind, 跛脚  诸如此类
being crippled, what have you, 失业  通常情况下
losing your job--in the ordinary case, 当你存在时它们对你是坏事
things are bad for you when you exist. 通常情况下
In the ordinary case, 为了受到伤害
in order to receive bads, 你需要存在
you've got to exist. 但也许这只是通常情况  并非所有情况
But perhaps that's only the ordinary case; it's not all cases. 我们可能会说
Perhaps we should say, 有些事即使你不存在
look, for certain kinds of bads you don't need to even exist 也会对你造成伤害
in order for those things to be bad for you. 这会是什么样的事呢
What kind of bads could be like that? 被剥夺的伤害正是如此
Well, of course, deprivation bads would be exactly like that. 你不是必须存在才能失去某些东西
To lack something, you don't need to exist. 实际上  你不存在
Indeed, the very fact that you don't exist might 恰恰解释了
provide the very explanation 你为什么被剥夺了
as to why you've got the deprivation, 你为什么没得到
why you've got the lack. 并非所有的损失都这样  对吧
Not all lacks might be like that, right? 回忆一下看电视的例子
Remember the television case. 当你存在时
You existed while 你失去了参加盛大派对的机会
you were being deprived of the great party. 当你存在时
You existed while 你仅拿到十美元而不是一千美元
you were getting the mere $10 instead of the $1,000. 所以  损失一般发生在你存在的时候
So, sometimes deprivations coincide with existence. 但它的关键之处在于
But the crucial point about deprivations is 你不必非要存在
you don't even need to so much as exist 才会被剥夺某物
in order to be deprived of something. 不存在本身已经决定了你被剥夺
Nonexistence guarantees that you're deprived of something. 所以也许我们应该摒弃存在前提
So perhaps we should just reject the existence requirement. 也许我们应该说
Perhaps we should say, 当我们谈论损失时
when we're talking about lacks, 当我们谈论被剥夺某物
when we're talking about deprivations, A是错的
A is wrong. 我们应该摒弃存在前提
We should reject the existence requirement. 事物在你不存在时一样可以对你造成伤害
Something can be bad for you even if you don't exist. 存在前提是假命题
The existence requirement is false. 这也许可以回应
Well, that would be a possible way to respond 对伊壁鸠鲁文字的第二种解释
to this second possible interpretation of Epicurus' argument. 它使我们保留了
It would be a way to retain the thought 我认为
that I take it we want to have, 至少是大多数人认同的
that most of us share, at least, 死亡是坏事的观点
that death is bad. 我们可以通过
We'd be able to retain 摒弃存在前提来保持这一观点
that thought by rejecting the existence requirement. 说起来容易
Well, easy to say that, 但摒弃存在前提引发的一些结果
but there are some implications of rejecting the existence requirement 让人难以接受
that may be rather hard to swallow. 想想这种说法的引申含义
Think about exactly what it's saying. 它指出会有一些事情
It's saying something, 例如死亡  不存在
for example death, nonexistence, 会对那些甚至不存在的人造成伤害
can be bad for somebody even though they don't exist. 这就是为什么即使我不存在
That's why my death can be bad for me 死亡也会对我造成伤害
even though I won't exist. 但如果死亡能对
But if death can be bad 不存在的人造成伤害
for somebody even though they don't exist, 那么死亡也会对
then death could be bad for somebody, 就是说
that is to say, 不存在也会对那些
nonexistence could be bad for somebody, 从未存在过的人造成伤害
who never exists. 想象有个人可能存在
Take somebody who is a possible person, 但从未出生
but never actually gets born. 这有点难以想象
It's sort of hard to think about somebody like that. 所以让我们来说的更具体一点
So let's try to get at least a little bit more concrete. 我需要两位志愿者
I need two volunteers. 我需要找个男生
I need a male volunteer from the audience. 好的  你就是男志愿者
Good. Okay, you'll be the male volunteer. 我还需要找个女生
And I need a female volunteer from the audience. 积极点嘛  没关系的
Come on, it won't hurt. 我需要个女志愿者
I need a female volunteer. 好的
Okay. 我想让你们
What I'd like you to do 下课后做爱生个孩子
after class is go have sex and have a baby. 好了  现在让我们假设
Okay. Now, let me just suppose 这并不会真的发生
that this isn't actually going to happen. 抱歉  抱歉
Sorry. Or sorry, 我不知道
I don't know. 让我们想想
Let's consider, 尽管他们做爱生个孩子的可能性
though, the possibility never to be actualized, 永远不会实现
the possibility that they would have sex and have a baby. 他的精子进入到她的卵子
His sperm joined with her egg, 形成一个受精卵
form a fertilized egg. 受精卵发育成一个胎儿
The fertilized egg develops into a fetus. 胎儿最终出生
The fetus is eventually born. 这个胎儿是
It's the fetus that we got by 37个卵子和4,000,309个精子的一种组合
mixing egg 37 with sperm 4,000,309. 这个人曾有可能出生
There's a person that could have been born. 但我们假设
But let's suppose, 他从未出生
never does get born. 这个可能出生的人
That particular person who could have been born, 我们叫他拉里
let's call Larry. 拉里是一个可能存在的人
Okay. Larry is a possible person. 这也许会发生  但最终没有发生
It could happen, but won't happen. 他可能会存在  但没有存在
It could exist, but won't exist. 现在  有多少人会为拉里感到难过
Now, how many of us feel sorry for Larry? 可能没人
Probably nobody. 毕竟拉里从未存在过
After all, Larry never even exists. 我们怎会为拉里难过呢
How can we feel sorry for Larry? 这就很好地说明
Now, that made perfect sense 当我们接受存在前提时
when we accepted the existence requirement, 只有你存在  事情才能伤害你
something can be bad for you only if you exist. 鉴于拉里从未存在
Since Larry never exists, 所以他不会受到伤害
nothing can be bad for Larry. 可一旦我们放弃了存在前提
But once we give up on the existence requirement, 一旦我们说即使你从没存在过
once we say something can be bad for you 你也会受到伤害
even if you never exist, 那么我们就没有理由
then we no longer have any grounds 不同情拉里
for withholding our sympathy from Larry. 我们会说  "哦  天呐
We can say, "Oh my gosh! 想想拉里本可拥有多美好的生活
Think of all the goods in life that Larry would have had, 只要他能出生的话
if only he'd been born. 但他从未出生
But he never is born, 所以他被剥夺了所有美好的事物"
so he's deprived of all those goods." 如果死亡对我是坏事
And if death is bad for me, 因为它剥夺了我生活中美好的事物
by virtue of being deprived of the goods of life, 那么对拉里而言没有出生也是坏事
then nonexistence is bad for Larry, 因为他无法得到生命中美好的事物
by virtue of his being deprived of all the goods of life. 我碰到的事情很糟
I've got it bad. 因为我会死掉
I'm going to die. 但拉里碰到的事更糟
Larry's got it worse. 我们更应为他难过
We should really feel much sorrier for Larry. 但我打赌你们没人会为拉里难过
But I bet none of you feels sorry for Larry, 这个根本没出生的人
this never-to-be-born-at-all person. 探讨这个问题需要注意的是
Now, it's important in thinking about this, 我们不求助于灵魂理论
that we not slip back into some version of the soul view, 尤其是一些灵魂理论中
especially some version of the soul view 认为灵魂先行存在
where the souls are prior existents. 你也许会想象  好像荷马也这么写过
You might imagine--there's a scene in Homer, I think, 祭祀过后
where some sort of sacrifice is being made 死者的灵魂仍在翱翔
and all the dead souls go hover around, 期待再次托生
longing to be alive again, 再次体会生命的气息  对吧
to savor the food and taste and smells of life, right? 如果你这样想象那些不存在的人
If you've got this picture of the nonexistent, 只有潜在可能性的
merely potentially possible 却从没出生的人
but never-to-be born individuals as 以类似鬼魂的状态存在着
somehow really already existing in a kind of ghost-like state, 希望能够托生
wishing they were born, 你也许会为他们感到难过
maybe you should feel sorry for them. 但在我所构建的
But that's not what the story is 物理主义者的世界中  这根本不可能
at all on the physicalist picture that I'm assuming. 那些不存在的人  不是幽灵一般
Nonexistent people don't have a kind of spooky, 渴望托生  以鬼魂的状态存在着
wish-I-were-alive ghost-like existence. 他们并不存在  就是这样
They just don't exist, full stop. 所以我们一想到拉里其实并不存在
So once we keep that in mind about Larry, 就不会为他难过了
it's very hard to feel sorry for him. 当然
Of course, look, 既然我讲到
since I've been going on about how 他被剥夺了生命中所有美好的事物
he's deprived of all the good things in life, 也许有些人会为拉里感到难过
maybe some of you are feeling sorry for Larry. 所以有必要进一步认清
So it's worth getting clear about just what it would mean 认真思考
to take seriously the thought 从未出生对潜在人类造成的伤害
that it's bad for merely potential people never to be born. 潜在人类的数目有多少
How many merely potential people are there? 我希望你们对数量级有个概念
I want you to get a sense of just how many there are. 不仅仅是拉里
Not just Larry, 我们随意组合精子卵子
the unborn person that would exist if we mixed whatever it was, 37个卵子和4,000,029个精子
you know, egg 37 and sperm 4,000,029, 大概就这么多
whatever the number was. 不仅仅是拉里
Not just Larry, 这个潜在的却没有出生的人类
who's a potential person who never gets born, 会成为我们同情的对象
that would have to be an object of our sympathy, 我们还要同情太多太多可能出生
there's a lot of merely potential, 却没有出生的人
never-to-be-born people. 有多少
How many? 非常多
A lot. 具体多少
How many? 我曾经计算过这个数量
Well, I once tried to calculate. 大家知道
Well, as you'll see, 这种估算不是一页纸就能做完的
the calculation is utterly off the back of the envelope, 得到的结果只是粗略的
sort of rough and completely inadequate in ways that I'll point out. 但起码可以让你们有个概念
But at least it'll give you a sense of 知道会有多少潜在的人类
just how many potential people there are. 先做一个保守估计
Let's start modestly and ask: 我们这一代人
How many possible people could we, 可以制造多少人类
the current generation, produce? 我说过  几年前我做过这项计算
Now as I say, I made this calculation some years ago. 结果是否精确并不重要
It doesn't really matter how inaccurate it's going to be. 我们会看到
As we'll see, 这项估算很粗略
it's very rough, 但却能指出大致情况
but it makes the point. 会有多少人类
How many people are there? 或者说  可能产生多少潜在的人类
How many possible people, rather, could there be? 假设现在有五十亿人口
Well, suppose there were 5 billion people. 大概一半是男人
Roughly half of them are men, 一半是女人
half of them are women. 那我们想要知道的是
What we want to know then is, 这二十五亿男人和二十五亿女人
how many possible people could the 2.5 billion men 可能创造出多少潜在人类呢
make altogether with the 2.5 billion women? 计算时至关重要的一点在于
The crucial point in thinking about this is 每一颗不同的卵子
to realize that every time you combine a different egg 和每一颗不同的精子结合
with a different sperm, 就会形成一个不同的人
you end up with a different person, right? 如果你把同一颗卵子和不同的精子结合
If you combine an egg with a different sperm, 你就得到了不同的遗传密码
you get a different genetic code 形成了不同的人
that develops into a different person. 你用这颗精子与另一颗卵子结合
You combine that sperm with a different egg, 会形成另一个人
you get a different person. 如果我父母提前五分钟做爱
You know, if my parents had had sex five minutes earlier 或是推迟五分钟
or five minutes later, 那么就是另一颗精子与卵子结合了
presumably some other sperm would have joined with the egg. 那么出生的就不是我
That would have been not me being born, 而是我的某个兄弟姐妹
but some sibling being born instead of me. 改变卵子
Change the egg, 改变精子
change the sperm, 就形成不同的人
you get a different person. 那我们要考虑的就是
So what we really want to know is, 在大概有五十亿人口的世界上
how many sperm-egg combinations are 究竟有多少种精子和卵子的组合
there with roughly 5 billion people in the world? 让我们算算
Well, let's see. 有二十五亿女人
There's 2.5 billion women, 二十五亿女人
2.5 billion women. 一个女人能排出多少卵子
How many eggs can a woman have? 女性排卵期大概是
Well, fertile periods, round numbers, 不需要太精确  大约30年
it's not really going to matter, precision, roughly 30 years, 每年排出大约12颗卵子
roughly 12 eggs a year. 总共就是这么多
So that's how many eggs. 实际上  做了这个计算后我就发现
Actually, I discovered some time after having done this calculation that 潜在卵子的数量要多得多
the number of possible eggs is far greater. 一个女人在排卵期内
A woman actually ovulates and gives off this many eggs roughly 大约排出这么多卵子
during her fertile period. 但是我发现
But there's many, 还有很多其它细胞
many other cells, I gather, 可以发育成卵子
that could have developed into eggs. 所以潜在的卵子数量要大得多
So that's a much, much larger number of potential eggs. 但这样算就够了
But this will do. 30年  每年12颗卵子
30 years, 12 eggs a year. 有多少男人呢
How many men? 大约二十五亿男人
Roughly 2.5 billion men. 每个男人能
Each man has a much longer 产生精子的时间要长得多
period in which he's able to produce sperm. 取个整数  大约50年
Let's just be round numbers here, 50 years. 一个男人一天可以做几次爱
How many times a day can the man have sex? 肯定不止一次
Well, certainly more than once, 但是我们保守估计  就算每天一次
but let's be modest here and just say once a day. 那么就是每年365次
So that's 365 times a day--a year. 一年365天
365 days a year. 365天  我想该这么写
365 days, I guess that should be. 我字写得太大了
I wrote it too big. 没给最后一个数留下空间
I don't have space left for the last number. 男人每次射精的时候
Each time the man ejaculates, 都射出大量精子
he gives off a lot of sperm. 有多少呢
How much sperm? 非常多
A lot. 在射精的时候
As it happens, 我有次专门查过
I looked this up once. 每次射出的精子大约是四千万
Round numbers, 40 million sperm each time the man ejaculates. 所以最后一个数字应该是乘以四千万精子
So this last number has got to be times 40 million sperm. 好的  我们根据现有的男性的数目
Okay, so we took all the men that exist now 和现有的女性数目来询问
and all the women that exist now and ask: 会有多少潜在的人类
How many merely possible people? 当然  他们中的
You know, most of these 大部分人是不会出生的
people are never going to be born, of course. 但我们探讨的是潜在的人类
But we're talking about possible people. 究竟有多少潜在的人类
How many possible people are there? 25亿乘以30乘以12
There's 2.5 billion times 30 times 12 times 乘以25亿乘以50乘以365乘以4千万
2.5 billion times 50 times 365 times 40 million. 结果等于  大概算一下
That equals--I'm going to round here. 结果接近于十五亿亿亿亿人
That equals approximately 1.5 million billion billion billion people. 也就是1.5乘以10的33次方
That's 1.5 x 1033. 这就是潜在人类的数量
That's how many possible people we could have, 大致说来
roughly speaking, 下一代的潜在数量
in the next generation, 而其中显然只有很少部分会真正出生
of which obviously a miniscule fraction are going to be born. 也就是说  如果你为拉里难过
There's--if you're going to feel sorry for Larry, 你就要为每一个潜在的人类难过
you've got to feel sorry for every merely possible person. 每一个可能出生却没有出生的人
Every person who could have been born that never gets born. 一共有十五亿亿亿亿这么多
And there's 1.5 million billion billion billion such people, 潜在的人类
such possible people. 当然  实际上
And of course, the truth of the matter is, 我们计算的只是冰山一角
we barely scratched the surface here. 因为想想这些人
Because now think of all those people and think about 想想他们可能创造的人类
all the possible children they could have. 我们仅从五十亿人算起得到这个数字
We got this number starting with a mere 5 billion people. 想想我们会得到多大的数字
Imagine the number we would get if we then 如果我们计算孙辈的数量
calculated how many possible grandchildren we could have. 我不是说这些人会同时存在
I don't mean that we could actually have all of those people at the same time, 我是说每个人背后都有
but for each one there is a possible person 可能存在的人
that could have existed. 你很快会发现  潜在人类的数量
You quickly end up with more possible people than 比我们所知的宇宙中的微粒还要多
there are particles in the known universe. 这才仅仅是两代人  不是吗
And that was just two generations, right? 如果是三代人
Three generations, 就会更多
you're going to have more. 四代人
Four generations, 会更多更多
you're going to have more. 如果我们想象潜在人类的数量
If we think about the number of possible people, 这些可能存在却永远不会存在的人
people who could have existed but will never exist, 这个数字简直大得不可思议
the number just boggles the mind. 所以  如果我们认为必须放弃存在前提
And then, if we say we've gotten rid of the existence requirement 那么即使你从未存在  也会受到伤害
and so things can be bad for you even if you never actually exist, 那我们就不得不说
then we have to say of 对这数以亿亿亿亿亿计的
each and every single one of those billions upon billions upon billions 潜在人类中的每一个人来说
upon billions upon billions of possible people 没有出生是一件灾难
that it's a tragedy that they never get born, 因为他们无法得到生命中美好的事物
because they're deprived of the goods of life. 如果我们真的放弃存在前提
If we do away with the existence requirement, 那么潜在人类无法出生的悲剧
then the tragedy of the unborn possible people is 就是震惊世人的伦理灾难
a moral tragedy that mere--that just staggers the mind. 人类历史上最惨绝人寰的灾难
The worst possible moral horrors of human history 他们甚至没有出生就被这个灾难
don't begin to even be in the same ballpark as the moral horror of the loss, 剥夺了美好的生命
the deprivation for all of these unborn possible people. 我不知道你怎么想  但就我而言
Now, I don't know about you, when I think about it, 我能说的仅仅是
all I can say is 我没被这个灾难震惊
it doesn't strike me as being a moral catastrophe. 我没有痛不欲生  悲伤气馁
I don't feel anguish and sorrow and dismay at the loss, 为了这无数亿亿亿亿亿人的损失
at the lack, at the deprivation for the untold billion, billion, billion, billions. 但如果我们不引入存在前提
But if we give up the existence requirement 用剥夺说来解释我的死亡所造成的伤害
and explain the badness of my death via the deprivation account, 我们确实得承认这是一个伦理灾难
we do have to say this is a moral tragedy, 这数以亿亿亿亿计的没有出生的人的灾难
the fact that the billions upon billions are never born. 不过  如果我们不承认这是个伦理灾难
Well, if we're not prepared to say that's a moral tragedy, 当然我们也有办法避免
well, we could avoid that 接受存在前提
by going back to the existence requirement. 但是  如果我们接受存在前提
But of course, if we do go back to the existence requirement, 我们就会回到伊壁鸠鲁的论断
then we're back with Epicurus' argument. 你只有存在  才会受到伤害
Something can be bad for you only if you exist. 当你死去  你不复存在
When you're dead, you don't exist. 所以死亡不会对你造成伤害
So, death can't be bad for you. 现在我们真的陷入了哲学困境
And now we've really got ourselves in a philosophical pickle, 不是吗
don't we? 如果我接受存在前提
If I accept the existence requirement, 我们的结论会是  死亡对我不是坏事
we've got an argument that says death isn't bad for me, 这说法实在惊人
which is really rather surprising. 但我可以通过放弃存在前提
I can keep the claim that death is bad for me 来坚持认为死亡对我是件坏事
by giving up the existence requirement. 但我一旦放弃存在前提
But if I give up the existence requirement, 我就得承认
I've got to say it's a 对拉里和无数未出生的人而言
tragedy that Larry and the untold billions, billions, billions, billions 没有得到生命也是一桩悲剧
--it's a tragedy that they're deprived of life as well. 这听起来也难以接受
And that seems unacceptable. 那我们该怎么办
What should we do? 我们该如何作答
What should we say? 问题是  造成这个问题的关键在于
The suggestion is that the key here is to 提到剥夺时  我采用了两种不同的概念
think about the claim that I'm using deprived in two different senses. 当谈到我的死亡
That when we worry about my death, 我失去一些东西  也就是
I'm losing something--namely, 生命  我曾有的生命
life--that I've had. 但是对拉里和无数亿潜在的人类来说
But in the case of Larry and the untold billions, 他们从未有过生命
they never had life. 在这种状况下  他们没有失去生命
And so they're not deprived of it in that same sense. 这是个很好的问题
I think it's a very promising suggestion. 而且实际上
And indeed, 我不能百分之百确定
I'm not 100% sure 我和你据此得到的结论是否一致
I've got exactly where you want to go with this in mind, 但我觉得这个想法
but I think there's a way of taking that thought 可以为我们找到一条中间出路
and sort of carving a middle path. 现在的问题是这样的
The problem effectively was this. 如果我们不引入任何存在前提
If we don't throw in any existence requirement, 我们就要为无数无法出生的人类难过
we have to feel sorry for the unborn billion, billion, billions. 这让人难以接受
That doesn't seem acceptable. 如果我们引入存在前提
If we throw in the existence requirement, 你只有存在才会受到伤害
something can be bad for you only if you exist, 那么死亡对我而言就不是坏事
we end up saying death isn't bad for me, 因为我死后就不存在了
because I'm not existing when I'm dead. 但也许还有一种对存在前提的宽泛理解
But maybe there's a more modest way of understanding the existence requirement. 把这个术语稍做变化
Or to put the point in slightly different terms, 也许我们可以区分
maybe we can distinguish between 存在前提的两种不同版本
two different versions of the existence requirement, 严格版本和宽泛版本
a bolder and a more modest version. 让我们看看
Let's see. 先说宽泛版本
Here's the modest version. 你只要在某一时期存在过
Something can be bad for you 你就可以受到伤害
only if you exist at some time or the other. 严格版本
Bolder claim. 你只有在伤害发生时存在
Something can be bad for you only if you exist 你才会受到伤害
at the same time as that thing. 好的  这是两种理解
All right. These are two different ways of understanding 存在前提的方式
what the existence requirement requires. 宽泛版本之所以宽泛  因为它条件宽松
The modest version is called modest because it's asking less. 只要你曾经存在过
It says something can be bad for you only if you exist 就有可能有事情对你是坏事
at some time or the other. 严格的存在前提要求多一些
The bold existence requirement adds a stronger requirement. 你只有在伤害你的事情发生时存在
It says something can be bad for you only if you exist at the very same time as 你才会受到伤害
the thing that's supposed to be bad for you. 这就多了同时存在的要求
There's got to be a kind of simultaneity. 如果一件事对你是坏事
If something's bad for you, 那你应该和这件事同时存在
you had better exist at the very same time that that bad thing is happening. 这比宽泛版本的要求严格
That's bolder than the modest requirement. 宽泛版本没有要求
The modest requirement doesn't require 你得和这件坏事同时存在
that you exist that the same time as the bad thing. 只要求你存在过就可以
It only requires that you exist at some time or the other. 再讲一分钟
One more minute, 我们就结束
we'll finish up. 假设我们接受严格版本
Suppose we accept the bold claim. 一件事对你是坏事
For something to be bad for you, 你就必须和它同时存在
you have to exist at the very same time as the bad thing. 那么死亡对你就不是坏事
Then death can't be bad for you, 因为死亡时你已经不存在了
because you don't exist at the time of death. 再假设
Suppose, however, 我们接受宽泛版本
that we accept the modest requirement. 一件事对你是坏事
For something to be bad for you, 你只要存在过一段时间
you have to exist at some time or the other. 既然我确实存在过
Well, since I do exist at some time or the other 毕竟我现在就存在着
-after all, I exist right now 那死亡对我就是坏事
--death can be bad for me. 众所周知  我死后就不存在了
Admittedly, I won't exist when I'm dead. 但没关系
But that's okay. 存在的宽泛前提并不要求
The modest existence requirement doesn't require 我必须和造成伤害的事情同时存在
that I exist at the very same time as the bad thing. 严格前提才是这么要求的
The bold one did, 宽泛前提并没有要求
but the modest one doesn't. 所以宽泛前提允许我们认为
So the modest one allows us to say that 死亡对我是件坏事
death is bad for me. 但注意
But notice, 关键在于
and this is the crucial point, 它没有说
it does not say 不存在对拉里来说是件坏事
that nonexistence is bad for Larry, 因为拉里并没有存在过
because Larry never exists at all. 所以他连存在的宽泛前提都不满足
And so he doesn't even satisfy the modest existence requirement. 简单来说  不引入存在前提
In short, with no existence requirement, 我们就得承认
we have to say the 没能出生对无数潜在的人类是巨大伤害
unexistence of the billions and billions is bad. 这看上去难以接受
That seems unacceptable. 根据存在的严格前提
With the bold existence requirement, 我们可以说  死亡对我完全不是坏事
we have to say death isn't even bad for me. 这似乎也不能接受
That seems unacceptable. 但是如果
But if, instead, 我们接受宽泛版本的存在前提
we accept the modest existence requirement, 我们就可以说
we're able to say, 不存在对拉里而言不是坏事
nonexistence is not bad for Larry, 但死亡对我而言就是坏事
but death is bad for me. 所以在我看来
And so that's the view 这似乎就是我们最后的结论
that it seems to me we should be looking at. 下课
Okay. 



 Chapter 17: 死亡之害（三）：不朽性（一）


上节课我给大家粗略介绍了一下剥夺说
Last time I sketched the deprivation account. 这是一种说法或是一个理论
That's a story or theory about 指出死亡为什么是坏事
what it is about death that makes it bad. 死亡是坏事是因为
What's bad about death is the fact that, 当你死去  当你不再存在
because you're dead, because you don't exist, 生活中的美好事物都离你而去
you're deprived of the good things in life. 从本质上来说  死亡并不坏
Being dead isn't intrinsically bad. 它不像是一段不愉快的经历
It's not like it's an unpleasant experience. 但相比较而言  它就是坏事
But it's comparatively bad. 之所以这么说是因为
You're worse off by virtue of the fact 你得不到你活着时能得到的东西
that you're not getting the things that you would get, were you still alive. 如果我死了  我就不能和爱人在一起
If I'm dead I can't spend time with my loved ones. 不能看日落  不能听音乐
I can't look at sunsets. I can't listen to music. 不能讨论哲学
I can't discuss philosophy. 剥夺说认为
The deprivation account says, 死亡是坏事是因为
what's bad about death is the fact 你失去了生活中美好的事物
that you're deprived of the good things in life. 乍看起来很有道理
Now, that seems pretty plausible, as a basic story goes. 但就像我们上节课看到的
But as we also saw last time, 在哲学上  这里面有些疑问
there are some philosophical puzzles about how it could be. 比如在什么时候  死亡对你来说是坏事
The question of when is death bad for you, 更重要更根本的是
and even more importantly and more essentially, 我们很难确定
there's the difficulty of asking ourselves, 我们是否真相信
do we really believe it's possible for 当你不存在了  还会有事情对你是坏事
something to be bad for you, when you don't even exist? 我们面临一系列困难的选择
We saw a series of difficult choices. 如果我们不引入"存在前提"
If we don't throw in an existence requirement, 如果我们不说  我还是用肯定语气吧
if we don't say--to put it more positively, 如果我们说  即使你完全不存在
if we say things can be bad for you 还会有事情对你是坏事
even if you don't exist at all, 那我们就必须承认
then we're forced to say 对拉里来说有些事是坏事
that things are bad for Larry. 拉里是我们给潜在的人起的名字
You'll recall that larry was our name for a potential person, 他们可能存在
somebody who could have come into existence 但从来没有也从来不会存在
but never actually does or will come into existence. 说到失去生活中美好事物的人们
Well, talk about people who are deprived of the good things in life, 拉里就完全失去了这一切
Larry's completely deprived of the good things in life. 如果我们认为你是否存在
If we think it doesn't matter whether or not you exist, 不影响是否有事情对你是坏事
for things to be bad for you, 那我们就会说
then we have to say, "这事儿对拉里来讲太糟糕了"
"Oh, things are bad for Larry." 不仅对拉里如此
And not just Larry, 对十五亿亿亿亿
but all of the 1.5 million, billion, billion, billion 从未出生的人都是如此
never-to-be-born people. 这一类人的数目大得惊人
The number of potential people is just staggering. 倘若我们摒弃"存在前提"
And if we throw away an existence requirement, 我们就必须承认这是道义上的悲剧
we have to say it's a moral tragedy of 对无数从没来到人世
unspeakable proportions that these people are never born, 从没存在过的人的悲剧
that they never come into existence. 如今  有些哲学家就准备接受这种说法
Now, there are philosophers who are prepared to say that. 但如果你不打算这样做的话
But if you're not prepared to say that, 那你恐怕就得接受
it looks as though you've got to accept 某一种形式的"存在前提"
some kind of existence requirement. 为什么我们对拉里以及
Why don't we feel sorry for Larry 他数以万亿计从没出生的同胞不感到难过
and his billions upon billions of never-to-be-born compatriots? 这是因为  事实上他们并不存在
Because, indeed, they don't exist. 他们只不过是一种可能性
They're merely possible. 我们可能会说
And we might say, 你必须存在才会有事情对你是坏事
you've got to exist in order for something to be bad for you. 但当我们说这话的时候
But once we say that, 我们好像就近似于承认
it seems we're running towards the position that, 死亡对我来讲不会是坏事  因为很明显
in that case, death can't be bad for me, because of course, 当我死了  我就不存在了
when I'm dead, I don't exist. 怎么会有事情对我是坏事呢
So how can anything be bad for me? 上节课最后  我提出
I proposed at the end of class last time 我们可以
that we could try to solve this problem 通过区分
by distinguishing between 两种不同的"存在前提"来解决这个问题
two versions of the existence requirement-- 宽泛前提和严格前提
a more modest version and the bolder version. 严格前提说的是
The bolder version says, "有事情对你是坏事
"In order for something to be bad for you, 当且仅当它发生时你存在"
you've got to exist at the very time that it's happening." 如果我们这样说  那么我们确实可以说
If we say that, then indeed, we can say, "拉里从没来到人世不是坏事
"It's not bad that Larry doesn't exist, 因为他现在不存在"
because he doesn't exist now." 那么没有任何事情
So there's nothing-- 即使我们想到
even if we wanted to think 他可能会拥有一些美好的东西
that there are good things he could be having, 但没有这些对他也不是坏事
that's not bad for him to not have them. 因为他现在不存在
He doesn't exist now. 但同样
But it also, 如果我们坚持存在的严格前提
if we go all the way to the bold existence requirement, 我们就得承认
we have to say, "当我死了  死亡对我就不是坏事
"Look, when I'm dead that won't be bad for me, 因为我那时已经不存在了"
because, well, I won't exist then." 除了接受存在的严格前提
But instead of accepting the bold existence requirement, 我们也可以选择要求少点的前提
we might settle for something a little bit less demanding, 我叫它"宽泛前提"
the thing I dub "The modest existence requirement." 有事情对你是坏事
In order for something to be bad for you, 当且仅当你在一段时间内存在过
there has to have been a time, some time or the other, when you exist. 你需要
You've got to, as it were, 至少存在一段时间  进入圈子中
exist at least briefly in order to get into the club, 我们把我们关心的人
as we might put it, of those creatures, 生活过  牵动我们心绪的人
those possible creatures 放在这个圈子里
that we care about and are concerned about morally. 你必须至少存在过一段时间
You have to have gotten in the club 才能进入这个圈子
by at least having existed for some period of time. 但你一旦进入这个圈子
But once you're in the club, 有些事情对你就会是坏事了
things can be bad for you, 即使你在它发生的那一刻并不存在
even if you don't happen to exist at that particular moment. 如果我们接受宽泛前提
If we accept the modest existence requirement, 那我们就可以说
then we can say, 拉里没生下来不是件坏事
it's not bad that Larry doesn't exist, 因为  拉里没进入这个圈子
because, well, Larry doesn't get into the club. 要想进入我们会为你难过的圈子
In order to get into the club of things that we feel sorry for, 你必须存在过一段时间
you have to have existed at least some moment or the other. 拉里和其他
Larry and the billions upon 数以万亿亿亿计的潜在的人
billions upon billions of potential people 那些从没存在过的人
who never actually come into existence, 他们没有满足存在过一段时间这一条件
they don't satisfy the requirement of having existed at some time or the other. 所以我们不为他们感到难过
So we don't have to feel sorry for them. 但我们会对
But we can feel sorry for somebody 上周去世的10岁的孩子感到难过
who died last week at the age of 10 because we can say, 他们存在过  哪怕时间很短
well, they existed, albeit very briefly. 所以他在我们为之难过的圈子里
And so they're in the club of beings that we can feel sorry for and say, 他们没能继续活下去对他们是件坏事
look, it's bad for them that they're not still alive. 想想生活中美好的事情
Think of all the good things in life 如果他们还活着他们还会享受到的
they would be getting if they were still alive. 所以宽泛前提
So the modest existence requirement 使我们避免了非左即右的困境
allows us to avoid both extremes. 或许这就是我们应该采取的立场
Maybe then that's the position that we should accept. 总的来说  它可能是最好的立场了
It may be, on balance, the best possible view here. 但我也想强调
But I just want to emphasize 即使是宽泛前提
that even the modest existence requirement 也有它有悖常理的一面
is not without its counterintuitive implications. 比如一个人的一生
Consider somebody's life. 假设一个人愉快地生活了很长时间
Suppose that somebody's got a nice long life. 从出生  一直活到
Comes into existence, leads-- 10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90岁
lives 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 years. 美好的一生
Nice life. 现在  设想若我们不让
Now, imagine that we bring 他们活到90岁
it about that instead of living 90 years, 让他们活得稍微短一点
they have a somewhat shorter life-- 10  20  30  40  50岁
10, 20, 30, 40, 50 years. 我们让他们50岁就死了
We've caused them to die after 50 years as opposed 不让他们像以前那样活到90岁
to the 90 years they might have otherwise had. 那么  我们可以说
Well, we can say, look, 对他们来讲
that's worse for them-- 仅仅活了50岁而不是90岁是一件坏事
to live merely 50 years instead of the full 90 or 100 years. 如果我们接受宽泛前提
And if we accept the modest existence requirement, 我们可以说  不管如何
we can say that, because after all, 不管你活了50岁还是90岁
whether you live 50 years or 90 years, 你确实活过一段时间
you did exist at some time or the other. 所以你失去了
So the fact that you lost 本来应该有的40年岁月
the 40 years you otherwise would have gotten, 这对你来讲是件坏事
well, that's bad for you. 还蛮有道理的
There. Fair enough. 这就是我们想要的答案
That gives us the answer we want. 这种说法符合常理
That's not counterintuitive. 现在  设想他没活到50岁
Now, imagine that instead of living 50 years, 他只活到10岁  20岁就死了
the person lives only 10, 20 years and then dies. 这就更糟了
Well, that's worse still. 想象一下如果他们没死
Think of all the extra goods 会得到多少美好的东西
they would have gotten if only they hadn't died then. 如果我让他们
And if I caused them to 活了20岁而不是50岁或90岁就死了
die after 20 years instead of 50 or 90 years, 我就把事情弄得更坏了
I've made things worse and worse. 想象我让他们活了一岁就死了
Imagine that I caused them to die after one year. 事情更坏  这一切都符合常理
Worse still. All this is perfectly intuitive. 他们活得越短  事情就越坏
The shorter their life, the worse it is for them, 他们失去生活中美好的事物就越多
the more they're deprived of the good things in life. 所以  90岁的一生  还不坏
So 90-year life, not bad. 50岁的一生  坏事
50-year life, worse. 10岁的一生  更坏
10-year life, worse still. 一岁的一生  更坏
One-year life, worse still. 一个月的一生  更坏
One-month life, worse still. 一天的一生  更坏
One day life, worse still. 一分钟的一生  更坏
One-minute life, worse still. 一秒钟的一生  更坏
One-second life, worse still. 现在  如果我让他
Now, imagine that I bring it about 从来没存在过
that the person never comes into existence at all. 哦  那就不是坏事了
Oh, that's fine. 看到没  这就是宽泛前提
See? That's the implication 有悖常理的一面
of accepting the modest existence requirement. 如果我们缩短他们的生命  直到
If I shortened the life they would have had so completely 他们从没出生过
that they never get born at all, 或者他们从没存在过
or they never come into existence at all, 那他们就无法满足
then they don't satisfy the requirement of 至少存在过一段时间这一条件
having existed at some time or the other. 所以尽管我们通过缩短他们的生命
So although we were making things worse 使得事情变得越来越糟糕
and worse and worse and worse and worse as we shortened the life, 但当我们缩短到最后一秒钟的最后一刻
when we finally snip out that last little fraction of a second, 突然间我们就没有使事情变得更坏
it turns out we didn't make things worse at all. 我们就从没做过任何对人有害的事情了
Now we haven't done anything objectionable. 如果你接受存在的宽泛前提
That's, it seems, what you've got to say 你似乎就得这么说
if you accept the modest existence requirement. 当然  如果你从来不接受"存在前提"
Of course, if we didn't have an existence requirement at all, 你就可以说  "看吧
we could say, "Well look, 从没出生过是最坏的事情"
worst of all, never to have been born at all." 说得没错
Fair enough. 但如果你这样说
But if you say that, 你就一定会对拉里感到难过
then you've got to feel sorry for Larry. 你就会对十五亿亿亿亿
You've got to feel sorry for the 1.5 (潜在的人)感到难过
million billion, billion, billions. 所以总的来说
So which view is it that on balance is the-- 我不想说"最有道理的"
I don't want to say "Most plausible." 当我们开始思考这些迷题时
I think when we start thinking about these puzzles, 各种选择都很牵强
every alternative seems unattractive in its own way. 所以我们只能期待
Maybe the most we could hope for is, 找到"最不无道理的"说法
which is the least implausible thing to say here? 我也不是很有把握
I'm not altogether certain. 让我们再来谈一个有关剥夺说的
Let me turn to one more trouble or problem 问题或者疑难
or puzzle for the deprivation account. 这个问题和我们是否
And this particular puzzle arises whether or not 接受"存在前提"
we accept an existence requirement, 是否接受严格前提
whether or not we accept a bold existence requirement, 还是宽泛前提
a modest existence requirement, 还是不接受"存在前提"都无关
or no existence requirement, 因为这里讨论的
because we're going to deal with somebody 是存在过一段时间的人
who actually does exist at some time or the other, 比如你  或者我
namely you or me. 其实有些同学在作业里
This is actually a puzzle 已经写到了这个问题
that some of you may have written your paper on, 卢克莱修 古罗马哲学家及诗人
because it's the puzzle about Lucretius, 卢克莱修提出的问题
the puzzle that Lucretius gives us. 这段话不是原话
It's not a direct quote, 但他主要意思是这样的
but Lucretius basically says, 看  大部分人对我们将要死去
look, most of us are upset and anxious 都感到不安和焦虑
at the fact that we're going to die. 我们认为死亡是坏事
We think death is bad for us. 我死后会有一段时间我不存在
There'll be this period after my death in which I won't exist. 剥夺说告诉我们为什么它是坏事
And the deprivation account helps say why that's bad, 因为在我不存在的这段时间里
because during this period of nonexistence, 我享受不到生活中美好的事物
you're not enjoying the good things in life. 说得有道理  卢克莱修说
Fair enough, says Lucretius, 但是等一下
but wait a minute. 你死后的这段时间不是你不存在的
The period after you die isn't the only period during 唯一的时间
which you don't exist. 它不是唯一的一段时间
It's not the only period in which 只要你还活着
if only you were still alive, 你就可以享受到生活中美好的事物
you could still be enjoying the good things in life. 还有一段你不存在的时间
There's another period of nonexistence. 就是你出生前的时间
It's the period before my birth. 我想我弄反了时间轴  不过没关系
I think I've just switched the timeline here, but all right. 想象一下这是你出生前的时间
Imagine this is the period before my birth. 就如同我死后会有
Just like there'll be an infinite period 一段无穷无尽的时间我不存在一样
after my death in which I won't exist, 它给我带来惊恐和绝望
and realizing that fills us with dismay, 在我出生前
there was, of course, 也会有一段无穷无尽的时间我不存在
an infinite period before I came into existence. 如果不存在是如此可怕
Well, if nonexistence is so bad 根据剥夺说
and by the deprivation account it seems 我们会说它很可怕
that we want to say that it is, 那么我是不是也应该对
shouldn't I be upset at the fact 我出生前的漫长时间感到害怕
that there was this eternity before I was born? 但卢克莱修说
But, says Lucretius, 这很愚蠢  不是吗
that's silly, right? 没有人会为
Nobody's upset about the fact 他们出生前的漫长时间感到害怕
that there was an eternity before they were born. 这样的话  那对死后不存在的
In which case, it doesn't make any sense 漫长时间感到害怕也是毫无道理的
to be upset about the eternity after you die of nonexistence. 卢克莱修没把这一说法当问题
Well, Lucretius doesn't offer this as a puzzle. 他提出这点是作为论据
Lucretius offers this as an argument 论证我们不应对我们将会死去感到担忧
that we should not be concerned about the fact that we're going to die. 大多数哲学家不完全接受
Most philosophers aren't willing to go with 卢克莱修的论证
Lucretius all the way to the end of the bus, bus route. 大多数哲学家想说
Most philosophers want to say 这个论证里肯定有些地方有问题
there's got to be something wrong with that argument someplace. 肯定会有些问题
There's got to be some-- 这里都有什么可能性
Well, what are the possibilities here? 一种可能当然就是同意他的论证
One possibility is indeed to just agree with him, right? 我出生前的漫长时间并不可怕
Nothing bad about the eternity before I was born. 所以这段我不存在的漫长时间并不可怕
So, nothing bad--of the eternity of nonexistence. 所以我死后不存在的漫长时间也不可怕
So nothing bad about the eternity of nonexistence after I die. 这是一种可能  即同意卢克莱修的说法
That's one possibility, to agree with Lucretius. 第二种可能性是说
Second possibility is to say, 卢克莱修  你是对的
look, Lucretius, you're right. 我们确实需要同样对待
We really do need to treat these 这两种我不存在的漫长时间
two eternities of nonexistence on a par. 但我们可以换一种说法
But we could turn it around. 不采用卢克莱修的说法
Instead of saying with Lucretius, 即  这种不是坏事
nothing bad about this one, 所以这种也不是坏事
so nothing bad about this one, 我们换一种说法
maybe we should say instead, 我们死后的这段时间是坏事
something bad about the one after we die, 所以我们出生前的这段时间也是坏事
and so something bad about the one before we were born. 或许我们应该坚持剥夺说
Maybe we should just stick to the deprivation account 不要对它失去信心
and not lose faith in it. 剥夺说告诉我们
The deprivation account says 死后的这段时间是坏事
it's bad that there's this period after we die, 因为如果我们不死
because if only we weren't dead then, 我们就可以继续享受生活中美好的事物
we would still be able to enjoy the good things in life. 或许你可以说  类似地
Maybe we should say, look, similarly then, 剥夺说告诉我们
when the deprivation account tells us 我们出生前的这段时间
it's bad that there's this period 当我们不存在时  也是坏事
before we come into existence, when we don't exist. 因为只要我们存在
Because if only we had existed then, 我们就能享受生活中美好的事物
we'd be able to enjoy the good things in life. 或许卢克莱修是对的
Maybe Lucretius was right, 我们要同样看待这两段时间
we have to treat both periods the same. 但他错在认为我们不该把
But he's wrong in thinking 这两段时间都想成坏事
we shouldn't think either period is bad. 也许我们应该把这两段时间都想成坏事
Maybe we should think both periods are bad. 这也是一种可能性
Well, that's a possibility. 还有什么其它可能性呢
What other possibilities are there? 有种可能性是说
Another possibility is to say, 卢克莱修  你是对的
Lucretius, you're right, 确实有两种我不存在的漫长时期
there are two periods of nonexistence, 但是有理由区别对待它们
but there's a justification for treating them differently. 从我们关心的事情上来讲
They're asymmetrical in a way that makes sense 它们的意义不同
from the point of view of what we should care about. 这么说说很容易
Well, it's easy to say that. 很多哲学家想借此一劳永逸解决这个问题
The puzzle--most philosophers want to take that last way out. 他们想要指出
They want to say there's something that explains 为什么这样做是有意义的  有道理的
why it makes sense, why it's reasonable 为什么要关心死后无穷无尽的时间
to care about the eternity of nonexistence after my death, 而不是关心出生前无穷无尽的时间
but where that doesn't apply to the eternity of nonexistence before my birth. 现在  解决这个问题就变成
And then the puzzle is to 要找出区别对待这两类时间
point to a difference that would justify 的理由或是证明
that kind of rationally asymmetrical treatment of the two periods. 简单说这么做是对的
It's easy to say it's okay, 或者说它有道理都很容易
it's reasonable to treat them differently. 但哲学家面临的问题是要找出
The philosophical challenge is to point to something 对此的解释或者证明
that explains or justifies that. 一种常见的回答是说
Now, a very common response is to say something like this. 我死后的这段时间
Look, consider the period after my death. 我不再活着  我失去了生命
I'm no longer alive. I have lost my life. 与此相反
In contrast, 我出生前的这段时间
the period before my birth, 尽管我也没活着
although I'm not alive, 但我没有失去生命
I have not lost my life. 我还从来没有过生命
I have never yet been alive. 所以  显然
And so, of course, 你不可能失去你从没有过的东西
you can't lose something you've never yet had. 为什么死后这段时间是坏事呢
So what's worse, this answer suggests, about the period after death 这个回答说  因为死亡包含损失
is the fact that death involves loss, 而出生前不存在的时间不包含损失
whereas prenatal nonexistence does not involve loss. 所以  结论出来了
And so, the conclusion comes, 我们为什么要更关注这段时间
and now we see why it's okay to care more about that one 而不是这段时间
than this one, 更关注死后的时间而不是出生前的时间
the one after death and the one before birth. 因为死后的时间包含损失
Because the one after death involves loss, 出生前的时间不包含损失
and the one before birth does not. 非常常见的回答
Very, very common response, 但我个人认为这不是令人满意的回答
but I'm inclined to think that can't be an adequate answer. 说这一时期包含损失当然是对的
It's true, of course, that this period involves loss, 因为"损失"的定义就是
because the very definition of "Loss" Is, 你失去了你以前拥有的东西
you don't have something that at an earlier time you did have. 所以这一时期包含损失
So this period involves loss. 但是出生前的时间不包含损失
But the period before birth does not involve loss, 因为尽管我没有生命
because although I don't have life, 但在这一时期之前我也没有生命
I haven't, previous to the period, had life, 所以我没有失去任何东西
so I haven't lost anything. 但是还有一件事
Of course, there's another thing 在出生前的时期也是成立的
that's true about this prenatal period, to wit, 我没有生命但我即将拥有生命
I don't have life and I'm going to get it. 我没有一些我即将拥有的东西
So I don't yet have something that's going to come in the future. 这一点在死亡后的时期不成立
That's not true about the post-life period. 我已经失去生命了
I've lost life. 在这一时间期我不是没有生命
But it's not true of this period that I don't have life 然后得到生命
and I'm going to get it in the future. 所以这一时期包含损失
So this period involves loss. 很有意思的是
Interesting. In fact, 在这种状态下  我们没有一个词来描绘
we don't have a name for this other state, 你现在没有  虽然你将来要有
where you don't yet have something that you'll get later, 但是你现在还没有
but you don't yet have it. 我们叫它  不叫损失
Let's call that, not loss, 叫"尚无"好吗
let's call it "Schmoss," Okay? 所以在这一时期  你失去了生命
So during this period, there's a loss of life, 但你并不是"尚无"生命
but no schmoss of life. 在这一时期
And in this period, 你没有失去生命
there's no loss of life, 但你"尚无"生命
but there's a schmoss of life. 作为哲学家  我们需要问一下
And now we need to ask, as philosophers, 我们为什么更关心失去生命
why do we care more about loss of life 而不是"尚无"生命
than schmoss of life? 为什么
What is it about the fact 我们失去我们已有的东西
that we don't have something that we used to, 比我们没得到本该得到的东西更坏
that makes it worse than not having something that we're going to? 我们很容易忽略这种类比
It's easy to overlook the symmetry here, 因为我们有"损失"这个词
because we've got this nice word "Loss," 但没有"尚无"这个词
and we don't have this word "Schmoss." 不过它没有解释任何事
But that's not really explaining anything, 它只是指出了应该解释的事情
it's just pointing to the thing that needs explaining. 为什么我们更关心失去
Why do we care more about not having 以前拥有的东西
what once upon a time we did, 而不关心没有得到本来将要得到的东西
than we care about not having what once upon a time we will? 还有一些其它说法我们也要讨论
Well, there's some other proposals that we might make. 有些是在
A couple of them have actually been 你们的阅读材料里
sketched in some of your reading. 比如  汤姆·内格尔
So for example, Tom Nagel , 在他关于死亡的文章里说
in his essay on death says, 看  这就是区别
look, here's the difference. 很简单  只要想象
It's easy enough to imagine-- 当然也确实有这个可能
and indeed for there to actually be a possibility of-- 我活得更长
my living longer. 假设我80岁死了  如果我没死
Suppose I die at the age of 80 and if I didn't die, 我会接着活到90  100岁
then I'd continue living 90, 100, what have you. 这人始终是我
There it is. It's still me. 当你想象我
When you imagine me with an earlier-- 比如说活得更长
rather with living longer, 你是在想象我活得更长
you're imagining me living longer. 用我们讨论
To use the vocabulary that we introduced 柏拉图时的术语就是
in thinking about some of Plato's arguments, 你可以说  尽管
we might say although -- 假设我80岁死了  对我来讲是个事实
suppose I die at age 80--that's a fact about me, 但这是个偶然的事实
it's a contingent fact about me. 我80岁死掉不是必然的事实
It's not a necessary fact about me that I died at 80. 假设我80岁时被车撞了
Suppose at 80 I get hit by a car. 但是我被车撞不是一个必然发生的事
It's not a necessary truth about me that I got hit by a car. 我也可能没被车撞
I could have not gotten hit by a car, 活到了90或者100岁
and lived to the ripe old age of 90 or 100. 你何时死亡并不是你的基本特征
When you die is not an essential feature of you, 所以我们可以很容易想象
so it's easy for us to think about the possibility 我能活得更长
in which I live longer. 但是  内格尔说
But, says Nagel, 当我想象另一个情形时
when I try to imagine what would the alternative be, 如果我对我出生前的时间感到不安
if I'm going to be upset about the prenatal nonexistence, 我们可以想象一下让我早点出生
we have to imagine my being born earlier. 我出生在1954年
I was born in 1954. 我是否该对我出生在1954年
Should I be upset about the fact 而不是1944年感到不安
that I was born in 1954 instead of 1944? 这和我对于
That's the analog of being upset about the fact 我是在2044年死
that I die in whatever it is, 还是在2054年死感到不安是类似的
2044 instead of living to 2054. 内格尔说  但是  当你想象自己
Nagel says, but look, when you try to think about the possibility 不是在1954年出生
in which instead of being born in 1954, 而是在1944年出生  你们
I was born in 1944--and for the rest of you, 可以填进自己的生日
you've got to plug in your own birthdates-- 内格尔说你无法这样想象
Nagel says you can't do it. 我死亡的日期对我来讲是偶然事件
The date of my death is a contingent fact about me. 但我出生日期对我来讲不是偶然事件
But the date of my birth is not a contingent fact about me. 我们提到出生不是指
And by birth we don't really mean 我从子宫出来的那一刻
when I came out of the womb. 这个时刻可以变化
That could be changed, 比如早产
perhaps by having been delivered prematurely, 或者剖腹产  等等
or through caesarean, or what have you. 我们是指我真正存在的那一刻
We really mean the time at which I come into existence. 我们假设这是精子卵子结合的那一刻
Let's suppose it's the time when the egg and the sperm join. 对我来讲这不是一个偶然时刻
That's not a contingent moment in my story. 在我生命里这是一个必然时刻
That's an essential moment in my life story. 为什么这么说
How could that be? 难道我父母不能早点做爱吗
We say, couldn't my parents have had sex earlier, 比如10年前  他们当然可能
10 years earlier? Sure they could have. 但是记住  如果他们在10年前做爱
But remember, if they had had sex 10 years earlier, 那就会是另一个卵子
it would have been a different egg 和另一个精子结合
and a different sperm coming together, 所以那就不是我了
so it wouldn't be me. 会是我的哥哥或者姐姐
It would be some sibling of mine that, 确实这样  他们从没出生
as it happens, never got born. 但是如果  他们在10年前做爱
But if, had they had sex 10 years earlier, 我的哥哥或姐姐出生了
some sibling would have been born. 那也不是我提前出生了
That's not me being born earlier. 不同的精子  不同的卵子  不同的人
Different sperm, different egg makes for a different person. 所以你不能  你可以看这句话
So you can't--you can say the words, "如果我能早点出生的话"[虚拟语气]
"If only I'd been born earlier," 但在形而上学上没有这种可能性
but it's not actually metaphysically possible. 这是一个有趣的提法
Well, it's an intriguing suggestion, 但我觉得它不完全正确
but I think it can't quite be right, 或者至少
or at the very least, 它不是关于
it cannot be the complete story 卢克莱修问题的彻底回答
about how to answer Lucretius' puzzle. 想象我们有一个生育医疗中心
Suppose we've got a fertility clinic 保存了一些精子
that has some sperm on hold, 和一些卵子
and has some eggs on hold, 在精子库或者卵子库里
in the sperm bank, in the egg bank, what have you. 它们被冷冻起来
And they keep them here frozen 直到使用的时候
until they're ready to use them. 他们把它  比如说在2020年融化开
And they thaw them out in whatever it is, 2020. 然后这个人出生了
And then the person's born. 他当然可以回顾
Of course, he could go back. 他回顾一下然后说
He could look back and say, 如果他们提前10年把精子和卵子结合
if only they had put my sperm and egg together 10 years earlier. 那个人依然是我
That would still be me. 毕竟  同一个精子  同一个卵子
After all, very same sperm, very same egg, 同一个人
makes for the very same person. 所以只要他们把精子和卵子
So if only they had combined my sperm 提前10年结合
and egg 10 years earlier, 我就能早出生10年了
I would have been born 10 years earlier. 所以内格尔说提前出生是不可能的
Well, so Nagel's wrong in saying it's not possible 他说错了
to imagine being born earlier. 至少在某些情况下  是可能的
In at least some cases, it is. 如果我们想象有个人
Yet, if we imagine somebody like this, 在这个生殖医疗中心出生
somebody who's an offspring of this kind of fertility clinic, 如果我们问他
and we ask, would they be upset 没早点出生他感到不安吗
that they weren't born earlier? 同样  大多数人可能都会回答
again, it still seems as though most people would say, "不  当然不了"
"No, of course not." 所以内格尔的回答
So the Nagel answer doesn't seem 在我看来  并不充分
to me to be an adequate one. 还有一种可能的回答
Well, there's another possible answer. 来自弗雷德·费尔德曼
This is Fred Feldman's answer, 同样在你们的阅读材料里
also in the one of the papers that you've read. 弗雷德·费尔德曼说
Fred Feldman says-- 内格尔是当代的哲学家
Nagel's a contemporary philosopher, 弗雷德·费尔德曼也是当代的哲学家
Fred Feldman's a contemporary philosopher. 费尔德曼说  当我想象
Feldman says, when I imagine... 假设2044年我被一辆公共汽车撞死了
Suppose I get killed by the bus in 2044, 如果我想象我那时没死
and if I imagine if only I hadn't died then, 我们到底在想象什么
what is it that we imagine? 我们在想象我们不是活了80岁
We imagine instead of living 80 years, 而是活了90或者95岁或者更多
living 90 or 95 or more. 我们想象的是更长的生命
We imagine a longer life. 但当我说我希望早些出生时
But what is it that happens when I say, 到底发生了什么
if only I'd been born earlier? 费尔德曼说
Well, says Feldman, 你实际上不是在想象一个更长的生命
you don't actually imagine a longer life, 你只是平移了生命让它早开始一些
you just shift the entire life and start it earlier. 所以想一想
After all, suppose we just said--especially 特别是在听到这些东西之前
if I had asked you this question 如果我问你
before setting all of this up-- 你要是生在1800年会如何
but if only you'd been born in 1800. 没有人会想  "如果我1800年出生
Nobody thinks, "Oh, if only I'd been born in 1800, 我现在肯定还活着
I'd still be alive. 我现在都200岁了"
I'd be 200 years old." 你会想  "如果我1800年出生
You think, "Oh, if I'd been born in 1800, 我会在1860  1870
I would have died in 1860, 1870, 或是1880年死去"
1880," Whatever it is. 当我们想象早些出生的时候
When we imagine being born earlier, 我们不是在想象一个更长的生命
we don't imagine a longer life. 生得早一点没有任何好处
Nothing better about having a life earlier, 剥夺说会得出这样的结论
according to the deprivation account. 但当我们死后却想象自己没死的时候
But when we imagine not dying when we actually die, 我们说  "如果我不是2040年
we say, "If only I died in 2050 而是2050年才死"
instead of 2040," 这和我们想象早些出生不同
it's not that we imagine having been born later. 我们没有把生命向前平移
We don't shift the life forward. 我们想象的是一个更长的生命
We imagine a longer life. 所以  费尔德曼说  毫无疑问
So, Feldman says, no wonder, no surprise 你关心死后不存在的日子
that you care about the nonexistence after death. 因为当你想象能有什么不同时
Because when you imagine that being different, 你在想象更长的生命
you imagine a longer life. 但当你开始思考
But when you start thinking about 出生前不存在的日子能有什么不同时
the nonexistence before birth and you imagine that being different, 你并没有想象生活中更好的事情
you don't imagine more goods in life, 你只是想象它们发生在不同的时间
you just imagine them taking place at a different time. 我觉得这是个很有意思的解释
Well, that's an interesting possibility, I suppose. 但是同样
It doesn't seem to me--again, 或许它只是部分的回答
that it's got to be--maybe it's part of the story, 但看起来不像是彻底的回答
but it doesn't seem like it's going to be the complete story. 因为我们可以想象出来人们会这样想
Because we could imagine cases where the person just thinks, 如果我能早生出来
look, if only I'd been born earlier, 我就能拥有一个更长的生命
I would have had a longer life. 假设下周
Let's suppose that next week 天文学家发现一颗可怕的小行星
astronomers discover the horrible fact that there's an asteroid 就要撞击地球消灭一切生物
that's about to land on the Earth and wipe out all life. 比如说  2008年1月1日就要撞击
So here it is, it's going to come on January 1, 2008. 那个时候  不管你多少岁
And there you are, at whatever your age is, 20岁  21岁
20 years old, 21 years old, 在2007年12月31日都会想
on January-on December 31, 2008 thinking, 我只活了20岁
I've only had 20 years of life. 如果我能早点生出来
If only I'd been born earlier. 如果我能  比如说
If only, instead of being born, whenever it was, 早生出来10年
I'd been born 10 years earlier, 我现在就不是活了20岁而是30岁了
I would have had 30 years of life instead of 20 years of life. 这点非常清楚
That seems perfectly intelligible. 所以看来  如果我们深入研究
So it does seem as though, if we put our head into it, 我们可以进行这个思想实验
we can get ourselves into thought experiments where we say, 提出不仅是平移时间  而且是延长时间
yeah, don't just shift the life, make it longer. 只不过不向死后延长
But instead of making it longer in the post-death direction, 而是向出生前延长
make it longer in the pre-birth direction. 同样  你可以想象有人会说
Again, you can imagine somebody saying, "当我们这样做的时候  感觉是一样的"
"Yeah, and when we do that, we should feel the same." 向哪个方向延长不重要
It doesn't really matter which direction it goes. 所以正确答案是同等对待这两类时间
So symmetry is the right answer after all. 当我想到小行星的例子时
When I think about the asteroid example, 我发现自己在想
I find myself thinking, huh, 或许同等对待是正确的
maybe symmetry is the right way to go here. 或许费尔德曼是对的
Maybe Feldman's right, 我们通常只想着平移而非延长时间
that normally we just shift instead of extending. 但如果我注意到延长生命
But if I'm careful to extend, 或许没早点生出来
maybe that really is bad that 没向那个方向延长生命
I didn't get started sooner 还真是件坏事
and have a longer life in that direction. 好了  下面是另一种解释来自
Well, here's one other answer that's been proposed. 另一位当代哲学家  德里克·帕菲特
This is by yet another contemporary philosopher, Derek Parfit. 帕菲特说  确实
Parfit says, it's true that 当我想到死后不存在的时间
when I think about the nonexistence after I die, 我想到的是损失
that's loss, 当我想到出生前不存在的时间
whereas the nonexistence before I'm born, 我想到的不是损失而是尚无
that's not loss, that's mere schmoss. 所以我们确实需要说明
And it's true that we need an explanation 为什么损失比尚无更坏
about why loss is worse than schmoss. 但我们可以看到
But we can see that this 这不是我们凭空想象出的不同
is not an arbitrary preference on our part, 事实上  这是很普遍的想法
because in fact, it's part of a quite general pattern 我们更关心未来
we have of caring about the future 而不关心过去
in a way that we don't care about the past. 这是人类关注事物的本性
This is a very deep fact about human caring. 我们面向未来
We are oriented towards the future 关心未来会发生什么
and concerned about what happens in it, 而不是面向过去
in a way that we're not oriented 关心过去发生过什么
and concerned about what happened in the past. 帕菲特举了个很好的例子说明这一点
Parfit's got a very nice example to bring the point home. 他说  假如你生病了
He says, imagine that you've got some condition, 这病会要你的命
some medical condition that will kill you 除非动手术才能治好
unless you have an operation. 所以很明显  你要动手术
So fair enough, you're going to have the operation. 手术能让你活下去
This will allow you to live your life. 遗憾的是  做这个手术时
Unfortunately, in order to perform the operation, 你不能麻醉
they can't have you anesthetized. 你要一直保持清醒
You have to be awake, 也许是为了告诉医生
perhaps in order to tell the surgeon "对  就是这里疼"  如此这般
"Yeah, that's where it hurts," Whatever it is. 就像牙医边戳边问
Sort of like when the dentist pokes and says, "这里疼吗  那里疼吗"
"Does this hurt? Does that hurt?" 所以你在手术中要保持清醒
So you've got to be awake during the operation 不过这是个非常痛苦的手术
and it's a very painful operation. 我们无法为你减轻疼痛
We can't give you pain killer, 因为如果那样  你就无法指出病灶
because then you won't be able to point out, 这里疼还是那里疼  诸如此类
does this hurt, does that hurt, and so forth and so on. 由于我们无法为你减轻疼痛
Since we can't give you pain killer, 我们只有这样做
all we can do is this. 所以  手术中你会保持清醒
So, you'll be awake during this, 基本上就是在受折磨
basically being tortured. 在折磨中你会一直清醒
You'll be awake being tortured. 但这是值得的
It's still worth doing it, 因为这能治好你的病
because this will cure the condition, 你将会有一个美好悠长的人生
so then you'll have a nice long life. 由于我们无法为你减轻疼痛
Since we can't give you pain killers 也不能给你麻醉
and we can't put you out, 我们要做的是
all we're going to do is, 我们将要做的是
what we will do is this: 手术结束后
After the operation is over, 给你吃一种很高效的药物
we'll give you this very powerful medication, 会使你忘记短期的
which will give you short-term, 特定时间内发生的事情
sort of very localized, amnesia. 你将不记得任何有关手术的事情
You won't remember anything about the operation itself. 所以你至少不会记得
So you won't have to at least to dwell 遭受过可怕的折磨
upon these horrible memories of having been tortured. 这些记忆会全部抹去
Those will be completely wiped out. 所以在这段痛苦的手术中
Okay, so painful operation. 你一直保持清醒
You're awake during it. 手术后
After the operation, 你吃了药  然后你忘了
you're given this thing that makes you forget 自己曾经做过手术
whether you've had the operation, 有关手术的一切都忘了
anything about the operation at all. 24小时之内的记忆都被抹去
And that the preceding 24 hours will be completely wiped out. 所以你在医院里
So you're in the hospital 你醒来后问自己
and you wake up and you ask yourself, "我做过手术了吗"
"Huh, have I had the operation yet or not?" 你不可能知道  对吧  因为
Don't know, right? Because of course, 如果我还没做  我当然没印象
if I haven't had it, no wonder I don't remember it, 但如果我做了
but if I have had it, 我就已经吃了那种短期定时失忆的药物
I would have been given that temporary sort of localized amnesia. 所以我同样没印象
So of course I wouldn't know whether or not I've had it. 于是你问护士
So you ask the nurse, "我做过手术了吗"  她说
"Have I had the operation yet or not?" She says, "我不知道  今天有些人要做手术
"I don't know, we have a couple on the hall today who are, 一些已经做了
some of whom have had it 一些要在今天晚些时候才做
and some of whom are scheduled to have it later today. 我不知道你做没做
I don't remember which one you are. 我去查一下你的病例
Let me go look at your file. 我等会儿回来告诉你"
I'll come back and I'll tell you." 然后她离开了
So she wanders off. 她几分钟后会回来
She's going to come back in a minute or two. 当你等着她回来的时候
And as you're waiting for her to come back, 你问自己
you ask yourself, 你希望的答案是什么呢
what do you want the answer to be? 你是否介意
Are you indifferent, 你是已经做完手术的呢
or do you care whether you're one of the people who's already had it, 还是没做手术的
or somebody who hasn't yet had it? 如果你和帕菲特一样
Now, if you're like Parfit, 或者和我面对这件事时一样
and for that matter, like me, 那么你会说  我当然介意
then you're going to say, of course I care. 我希望
I want it to be the case that 我已经做完了手术
I'm one of the people who's already had the operation. 我不希望我还没做手术
I don't want to be one of the people who hasn't yet had the operation. 你可能会说  这有什么区别
You might say, how can that make any sense? 你迟早都是要做这个手术的
Your life's going to have the operation sooner or later. 在你的生命长河里
At some point in your life history, 终究是会发生这个手术的
that operation is going to have occurred. 所以不论你是今天还是明天
And so there's the same amount of pain and torture, regardless of 做了这个手术
whether you're one of the people that had it yesterday 你都要忍受同样分量的痛苦和折磨
or one of the people that's going to have it tomorrow. 但是尽管如此  帕菲特指出
But for all that, says Parfit, 事实非常清楚
the fact of the matter is perfectly plain, 我们确实介意
that we do care. 我们希望痛苦在以前发生
We want the pain to be in the past. 我们不希望痛苦在将来发生
We don't want the pain to be in the future. 我们更关心未来会发生什么
We care more about what's happening in the future 而不是以前发生过什么
than we care about what's happening in the past. 既然这样  那我们关心死后不存在的时间
That being the case, no surprise 而非出生前不存在的时间
we care about the nonexistence in the future in a way 也就一点也不奇怪了
we don't care about the nonexistence in the past. 到目前为止  这种解释似乎是对的
Well, that may be right as far as explanation goes, 但我们仍然会质疑
but we might still wonder whether or 这是否算是一种证明呢
not it's any kind of justification. 我们根深蒂固地区别对待
The fact that we've got this deep-seated asymmetrical 这两类时间的做法
attitude towards time doesn't in any way, 至少我目前看来
as far as I can see, 并没有证明任何事情
yet tell us whether or not that's a justified attitude. 或许我们会进化成更关心未来
Maybe evolution built us to care about the future 而不是关心过去
in a way that we don't care about the past 这点体现在很多事情里
and this shows up in lots of places, 包括帕菲特医院的例子
including Parfit's hospital case, 包括我们对损失和尚无不同的态度等等
including our attitude towards loss versus schmoss, so forth and so on 但我们抱这种态度
But the fact that we've got this attitude 并不说明它就是理性的态度
doesn't yet show that it's a rational attitude. 我们如何证明这是一种理性的态度
How could we show that it's a rational attitude? 也许我们应该
Well, maybe we'd have to 进行一些繁琐的形而上学研究
start doing some heavy-duty metaphysics, 如果我们到目前为止
if what we've been doing so far 做的还不够的话
isn't yet heavy-duty enough. 也许我们需要分辨
Maybe we need to talk about the difference between-- 形而上学中过去和未来的区别
the metaphysical difference between the past and the future. 过去已经确定  未来充满变数
The past is fixed, the future is open, 时间方向不同
the direction of time. 或许我们可以引入这些讨论
Maybe somehow we could bring all these things in 来解释为什么我们对待时间的态度有道理
and explain why our attitudes towards time make sense. 但我不会继续深入下去
I'm not going to go there. 我想说的是  人们依然不清楚
All I want to say is it's not altogether obvious 对卢克莱修疑问最好的解答是什么
what the best answer to Lucretius' puzzle is. 所以当我说  我以前说过
So when I say, as I have said-- 以后也会说很多遍
and I'm going to say it many times 直到几周后课程结束
over the course of the remaining weeks-- 死亡最主要的坏处
that the central thing that's bad about death 是你失去了生活中美好的事物
is the fact that you're deprived of the good things in life, 这是剥夺说的结论
when I make use of the deprivation account, 我并不认为这一说法暗示了
I don't mean to suggest everything is 生活中所有的事物都是甜蜜光明的
sweetness and light with regard to the deprivation account. 我想关于死亡为什么是坏事
I think there are some residual puzzles 还有些其它疑难
about how it could be that death is bad. 特别是
And in particular, 为什么剥夺说能够
how it could be that the deprivation account 明确指出死亡的坏处
puts its finger on what's bad about death. 但是不管怎么说  我觉得它是正确的
But for all that, it seems to me the right way to go. 我认为剥夺说
It seems to me that the deprivation account 确实准确指出了死亡最主要的坏处
does put its finger on the central bad thing about death. 最主要的坏处就是  当你死去
Most centrally, what's bad about death is that when you're dead, 你就不能再享受生活中的美好事物了
you're not experiencing the good things in life. 死亡对你是件坏事
Death is bad for you 是因为如果你没死  你就能得到
because you don't have what life would bring you, 生活带给你的东西
if only you hadn't died. All right. 如果这是对的  我们能否下结论
If that's right, should we conclude, 我们是不是只能说
in fact, do we have to conclude-- 因为有所损失  所以死亡是坏事
if death is bad because of it's a deprivation, 如果我没死
then if I wasn't dead, 我就不会损失任何东西
I wouldn't be deprived-- 所以  能否接下去说  最好的事情
so doesn't it follow then that the best thing 就是永远不死
of all is never to die at all, 即  永生
to wit, immortality? 如果这是件坏事
If it's bad... 假设我下周被卡车撞了
Suppose I get hit by a truck next week, 太糟糕了  如果我没被车撞
that's bad, because if only I hadn't gotten hit by a truck, 我还可以接着活上20  30年
I might have lived another 20, 30 years, whatever. 我可以享受生活中美好的事物
I would have gotten the good things in life 我会过得越来越好
that would have been better for me. 但是不管什么原因  当我死了
Ah, but when I die of whatever it is, 80岁时死于心脏病
some heart disease at age 80, 也会很糟糕  因为
that's bad maybe because 如果我没得心脏病
if only I didn't have heart disease, 我还可以接着活10  15  20年
I could have lived another 10, 15, 20 years, 得到更多生活中的好东西
gotten more good things in life. 如果我100岁还没死
If only I hadn't died at 100, 我还能得到更多生活中的好东西
I would have gotten more good things in life. 如果我500岁还没死
If only I hadn't died at 500, 我还能得到更多生活中的好东西
I would have gotten more good things in life. 不管我什么时候死  全都如此吗
Whenever it is I die, won't it always be true, 如果我们相信剥夺说
if we accept the deprivation account, 只要我没死
that if only I hadn't died then, 我就能得到更多生活中的好东西吗
I would have gotten more good things in life? 所以不管你什么时候死
And so whenever it is you die, 死亡对你来说都是坏事
death is bad for you. 所以对你来说最好的事情是永远不死
So the best thing for you would be never to die, 永生
immortality. 我们实际上需要问两个问题
Two questions really that we need to ask. 第一个问题
One is... 是否逻辑一致性要求
Does consistency, does logic, 相信剥夺说的人
require somebody who accepts the deprivation account-- 是否必须...
does consistency require that 如果你接受剥夺说
if you accept the deprivation account, 就一定要相信永生是好事
you believe immortality's a good thing? 第二个问题  即使逻辑上不必如此
Second question: Even if logic doesn't require that, 那么永生到底是不是件好事
is it true that immortality's a good thing? 我们从第一个问题开始
Let me start with the first one, 因为我认为这个比较简单
because I think that's the easier one. 单从逻辑上讲  或者说是
Logic alone, logic plus the consistency requirement-- 剥夺说从逻辑上
rather and the deprivation account-- 单纯从逻辑上来讲  我们并不一定
logic alone doesn't require us 要认为永生是件好事  为什么呢
to say immortality's a good thing. Why? 因为严格来讲
Because strictly speaking, 剥夺说讲的是
what the deprivation account says is, 死亡是坏事当且仅当你的不存在
death is bad insofar as you're deprived of the good things 使你失去了生活中的美好事物
in life by virtue of not existing. 如果你没被车撞
If only you hadn't gotten hit by that truck, 你就会接着享受你的激情人生
you would have gone on to an exciting life 比如做个舞蹈演员
in your career as a professional dancer. 你可能会成家立业
You would have had a family, 如此这样
or what have you. Whatever it is. 你可能会环球旅行
You would have traveled around the world. 生活可能给你带来很多美好的事情
Life would have given you a lot of great things 但是你失去了它们
and you get deprived of those great things, 这就是为什么你被车撞是件坏事
that's why it's bad that you got hit by the truck. 也就是说  死亡是坏事
That is to say, death is bad, 死亡是坏事是因为
when it's bad, by virtue of the fact 你失去了生活中美好的事物
that it deprives you of the good things in life. 但是假设  我们不知道
But suppose--we don't yet know 这一切是否真的会发生
whether this could actually happen, 这里我们只谈逻辑上的可能性
but here we're just talking about logical possibilities-- 假设对你来讲  生活中已经
suppose that there's no more good things 没任何好事情了
for life to give you. 那么当你被死亡夺去生命的时候
Then when you're deprived of life by death, 你不会失去任何美好的事情
you're not being deprived of any good things, 所以在这时死去
and so it's not bad for you 对你来说不是坏事
to be dead at that point. 死亡是坏事
Death is only bad, 根据剥夺说
according to the deprivation account, 只在你失去将会得到的好东西时才成立
when there are good things that would have come your way. 我们可以说  总的说来
When, as we might put it, on balance, 你接下去的生活
the life you would have had would have continued 会对你有好处
to be good for you. 这种情况下  失去美好生活
When that happens, then to lose that good bit of life, 对你是坏事
that's bad for you. 但是如果你发现
But if it should turn out that 生活从此以后
what life would have had hereafter, 不会再有好事  都是地狱般的煎熬
instead of being good, would have been hellish, 那么避免它并非是件坏事
it's not bad for you to avoid that. 实际上你能避免它是件好事
It might actually be good for you to avoid it. 所以  即使我们接受剥夺说
So, even if we accept the deprivation account, 我们也不必非要承认死亡永远是坏事
we're not committed to the claim that death is always bad. 我们需要了解
We have to look and see, 生活还为我们准备了什么
what would life actually hold out for us? 剥夺说在逻辑上
Logic alone, plus the deprivation account, 并不强迫我们认为永生是好事
doesn't force us to say immortality would be a good thing. 不管怎么说  这一点很关键
After all--this is really a crucial point to understand-- 数量有限时的好东西
things that are good for you in limited quantities 会随着你得到的越来越多变成坏东西
can become bad for you if you get more and more and more and more of them. 比如说  我喜欢吃巧克力
Well, I love chocolate. 假设有个人带来
So suppose somebody comes up 一盒高迪瓦巧克力
to me with a box of Godiva chocolate, 给了我几块
offers me a couple of chocolates. 我说"太好吃了  我爱高迪瓦巧克力"
I say, "Wonderful! I love Godiva chocolate." 然后他们不停地给我
And then they give me some more and some more. 20块巧克力
Twenty pieces of chocolate. 你知道
Well, you know, 当我得到第20块巧克力时
by the time I got 20 pieces of chocolate, 我不确定我是不是还想要第21块
I'm not sure right now if I really want the 21st piece. 但是你不停地给我
But you keep giving me some more. 30块巧克力
Thirty pieces of chocolate, 40块巧克力
40 pieces of chocolate, 100块巧克力
100 pieces of chocolate. 在某一点上  我从没得到过这么多巧克力
At some point--I've never actually had his much chocolate; 我也不知道是哪一点
I don't know what the point is, 但是在某一点上
but at some point-- 我会说  你知道
I'm going to say, you know, 尽管开始的10  20  30块巧克力
although the first 10, 20, 30 pieces of chocolate, 都很好吃  但第21块巧克力
those were good, but giving me the 21st piece of chocolate 或者第50块巧克力
or the 50th piece of chocolate, 就不再好吃了
no longer good. 至少在逻辑上  这是可能的
Logically, at least, it could happen. 在逻辑上  一定数量的
Logically, it could happen that although in quantities, 较小数量  50岁  60岁  100岁
small quantities, 50 years, 60 years, 100 years, 生活是美好的  但到了某一点
life is good, at some point, 或许生活就不美好了
maybe life would turn bad for us. 就跟不断被逼着吃巧克力一样
Just like being force-fed more and more chocolate. 如果这对我们来说变成了坏事
And if it did turn bad for us, 那么剥夺说会说
the deprivation account would allow us to say, 在那一点上  死亡对你就不是坏事了
oh, at that point, dying's not bad for you. 所以  这就是逻辑上的结论
Well, that's all that logic tells us. 逻辑上  我们不必
Logic simply tells us we don't have 非要相信永生是好事
to believe immortality's a good thing. 但即便如此  永生仍然可能是好事
But for all that, it could still be a good thing. 这就是第二个问题
So that's question number two. 我们想象中的永生应该是怎样的画面
Let's ask, what should we think about the prospect of living forever? 它确实会越来越美好吗
Would it, in fact, be better and better and better? 10岁时死于可怕疾病的人
Somebody dies at age 10 by some horrible disease, 如果能活到40岁该有多好
better if they'd made it up to 40. 40岁死的人
Somebody dies at age 40, 如果能活到80该有多好
better if they'd made it up to 80. 80岁死的人
Somebody dies at age 80, 如果能活到100  120该有多好
better if they'd made it to 100, 120. 随着生命不断延长
Is it true that life would get better 生活真的会越来越好吗
and better and better, the longer it is? 我们这么问的时候
Now, in asking this question, 我们要仔细想清楚
we have to be careful to be clear about 我们究竟在想象什么
what exactly we're imagining. 下面是一种对永生的想象
Here's one way to try to imagine that story. 想象生命就如同现在这样发展
Imagine that life is sort of the way it works now, 身体不断变化
with the kinds of changes that bodies 逐渐老化
undergo as they get older. 通常衰老会使你在
But instead of those changes basically killing you 80  90  100岁的时候死去  但你没有
at 80, 90, or 100, they don't. 你不断地变老
You get more and more of those changes, 但衰老始终没让你死去
but they never actually kill you. 类似这样的思想试验
This is the sort of thought experiment 在我推荐你们阅读的乔纳森·斯威夫特
that Jonathan Swift undertakes in the passage 写的《格列佛游记》里也有描述
from Gulliver's Travels that I've had you look at. 他想象格列佛来到一个国家
He imagines Gulliver coming to a country 那里有些人永远不死  永生
where a subset of the people live forever, immortals. 起初  格列佛说  哦  这太好了
And at first, Gulliver says, "Oh, isn't this wonderful?" 但他忘记了
But he forgot to think about the fact 由于身体上的变化不断积累
that if the kinds of changes that we undergo continue to accumulate, 人们不断变老
then you're getting older. 不仅变老  而且越来越虚弱
Not just older, but weaker, 身体越来越不舒服
in more and more discomfort, 衰老开始了它的报复
senility sets in with a vengeance, 最后这些永远不死的人
until eventually you've got these creatures that live forever, 大脑空空如也
but their mind is gone, 痛苦不堪
and they're sort of in pain 他们疾病缠身  弱不禁风
and they can't do anything because their body's utterly 什么事都做不了
infirm and diseased and sick. 这不是好事情
That's not a wonderful thing to have. 如果永生是这样的话  斯威夫特说
If immortality was like that, says Swift, 那么它太可怕了
that would be horrible. 如果永生是这样的话
For an immortality like that, 死亡就是祝福
death would be a blessing. 蒙田说  在我让你们读的另一篇文章里
And Montaigne, in the essay that I've had you look at, 他说  事实上死亡就是祝福
says indeed, death is a blessing, 因为它结束了我们年老时
because it puts an end to the pain 折磨我们的痛苦和悲伤
and suffering and misery that afflict us in our old age. 这些说法看上去很正确
Well, all of that seems right, 但我认为我们忽视了
but I suppose we'd be forgiven for thinking, 看  当我们想到永生时
look, when we wanted to be immortal, 我们想到的并不是这样普通的生活
we didn't want this kind of life going on 沿着相同的轨迹  不断向下延伸
and on and on with the same trajectory, the same downward trajectory. 我们想一直过一种
We sort of wanted to live forever, 丰富多彩  健康有益的生活
hail and hearty and healthy. 所以即使真实世界不允许我们这样
So even if the real world wouldn't allow us that, 那么求助科学幻想
let's just ask science fictiony whether 能否说明永生是件好事呢
or not in fact living forever would be good. 至少在原则上
Isn't it at least true that in principle, 永远不死可能是好事吗
living forever could be good? 我们必须想象有些事情
You've got to imagine changing some of the facts 在永生中发生了改变
about what it would be like to live forever. 所以不要
So instead of asking the question, 像我一开始那样问
the question I started with, 永远不死好不好
would it be good to live forever? -- 你要是不注意
If you're not careful, 得到的答案就会是那些悲惨景象
this is going to be like one of those horror stories, right? 如同你可以许几个愿
Where you've got a couple of wishes 你要是不小心  许得不精确
and you aren't careful about how exactly you state the wish. 那么愿望会实现
And so you get what you want, 但却是个噩梦
but it ends up being a nightmare, right? 你要是告诉帮你实现三个愿望的精灵
If you just tell the fairy who gives you three wishes, "我想永生"
"I want to live forever," 忘了加上  让我保持健康
and you forgot to say "And be sure to keep me healthy," 那么  你会得到一场噩梦
well, that's going to be a nightmare. 这是斯威夫特告诉我们的
That's what Swift told us. 所以我们要小心
So let's be careful. 让我们加入健康以及
Let's throw in health and 所有你想加入的元素
anything else you want. 加入足够的钱财  保证
Throw in enough money to make sure 你永远不会穷困
you're not poor for eternity. 健康的活着但是没钱了不也很惨吗
Wouldn't that be horrible, to be healthy but impoverished forever? 加入一切你想要的
Throw in whatever you want. 我们这时需要问的是
All we need to ask at that this point is, 有没有可能想象永生
is there any way at all to imagine immortality, 这种样子的永生是件好事呢
where immortality of that sort would be a good thing? 能不能想象永远存在
Is there any way to imagine existing forever 对你永远都是好事
where that would be good for you, forever? 现在  我们很容易说  当然是这样了
Now, it's very tempting at this point to say, look, of course. 再简单不过了
Nothing could be easier. 如同想象永远生活在天堂
Just imagine being in heaven forever, right? 你成功了  不是吗  你受到上天眷顾
You're done, right? You've got heavenly bliss. 真是难以置信
Isn't this incredible? 难道我们不都想在天堂永生吗
Wouldn't we all love to be in heaven forever? 问题是  我们对
The trouble is, we were a little bit vague about 天堂的生活究竟是什么样子有点模糊
what exactly life is like in heaven. 引人注目的是  即使那些宗教
It's a striking fact that even those religions 许诺我们在天堂获得永生
that promise us an eternity in heaven 也没有清楚地描绘过它  为什么
are rather shy on the details. Why? 因为  人们会担心
Because, one might worry, 如果你真得描绘了细节
if you actually tried to fill in the details, 这个美妙永恒的生活就终结了
this wonderful, eternal existence ends up 看上去再也不美丽动人了
not seeming so wonderful after all. 想象我们都成了天使
So imagine that what's going to happen is that we all become angels 我们将永远咏唱赞美诗
and we're going to spend eternity singing psalms. 我喜欢赞美诗  而且实际上
Now, I like psalms and I actually enjoy 我喜欢在礼拜的时候唱赞美诗
rather singing psalms at services. 周六早上
On Saturday mornings, 我会用希伯来语唱赞美诗  我相当喜欢
I sing psalms in Hebrew and I rather enjoy it. 但如果你问我
But if you ask me: 要是让你永远唱下去如何
What about the possibility of an eternity of doing that? 这听起来一点不吸引人
That doesn't really seem so desirable. 《神鬼愿望》  不是后来重拍的
Bedazzled, not the remake. 我没看过重拍的  最初的那个电影
I haven't seen the remake, but the original. 最初的那个电影里  有个人
In the original, there's a human character 被魔鬼抓住了
who hooks up with the devil. 他见到魔鬼  他问
He meets the devil and he asks the devil, "你为什么反对上帝"
"So why did you rebel against God?" 魔鬼说  "好吧  我做给你看
The devil says, "Well, I'll show you. 你坐在那里"
You sit here on the--" Whatever it was, 坐在邮筒上  我想那是个邮筒
the mailbox, I think it was. "我会坐在邮筒上"  魔鬼说
"I'll sit up here on the mailbox," The devil says. "你在我边上跳舞  边跳边说
"And you dance around me and say, 喔  赞美上帝
oh, praise the lord, 你如此伟大  你如此壮丽
aren't you wonderful? You're so magnificent. 你如此辉煌"
You're so glorious.'" And 那个人跳了一会儿  说
the human does this for a while and he says, "这实在太没劲了
"This has gotten really boring. 我们能换一下吗"  魔鬼说
Can't we switch?" And the devil says, "我就是这么说的"
"That's exactly what I said." 当你想到永远在天堂唱赞美诗时
Now, when you try to imagine heaven singing psalms for eternity, 并不那么吸引人
that doesn't seem so attractive. 好了  不去想永远在天堂唱赞美诗了
All right, so don't imagine heaven singing psalms for eternity. 想些别的
Just imagine something else. 但想什么呢  我请你们
But what? Imagine what? This is the thought experiment 一起加入这个思想实验
that I invite you to participate in. 你们能想象出永远过什么样的生活
What kind of life can you imagine, 是一件好事情
such that having that life forever would be good? 不是说接着过10年
Not just for another 10 years, 也不是说接着过100年
not just for another 100 years, 也不是说接着过1000年
not just for another 1,000 years, 或者一百万年  十亿年
or million years, or a billion years. 记住  永远是一个很长很长的时间
Remember, eternity is a very, very long time. 永远是永远持续下去
Forever goes on forever. 你能描述出一种生活
Can you describe an existence 你希望永远过下去吗
that you would want to be stuck with forever? 伯纳德·威廉姆斯此时提出
Now, it's precisely at this point that Bernard Williams, 在我推荐你们读的另一篇文章里
in another one of the papers I had you take a look at-- 伯纳德·威廉姆斯给出了否定的回答
Bernard Williams says no. 没有任何生活会
No kind of life would be one that would be desirable 永远有吸引力
and attractive forever. 根本没有这样的生活
No kind of life at all. 简单来讲  威廉姆斯说
In short, says Williams, 每种生活最终都会变的单调乏味
every life would eventually become tedious and worse, 极度痛苦
excruciatingly painful. 每种生活都是
Every kind of life is a life 你们最终想要摆脱的生活
you would eventually want to be rid of. 永生  远不是件美好的事情
Immortality, far from being a wonderful thing, 它是件可怕的事情
would be a horrible thing. 假设  我们现在
Suppose, for the moment, 赞同威廉姆斯的观点
that we were to agree with Williams. 我们能得出什么结论  我们会说
What then should we say? We might say--look, 至少  要是我们注意一些
at least when we're being careful, 当我们承认永生是件坏事时
if we agree that immortality would be bad, 我们就不能说死亡  就其本身来讲是坏事
we can't say then that death, per se, is bad. 我将会死去这个不变的事实
The very fact that I am going to die 看上去不是件坏事
turns out not to be a bad thing, 因为毕竟  和死亡对立的只有永生
because after all, the only alternative to dying is immortality. 如果永生是坏事
And if immortality would be a bad thing, 那么死亡就不是坏事了
then death is not a bad thing. 我们可以说死亡是好事
Death is a good thing. We might say, 如果我们接受威廉姆斯的观点
if we accept Williams' thought, 我们必有一死就是好事而不是坏事
the fact of our mortality is good rather than bad, 如果永生是坏事的话
if immortality would eventually be bad. 当然  关键要清楚即使我们这样说
Now of course, crucial to notice that even if we say this, 也不意味着明天你被车撞了
that doesn't mean that when you get hit by a car tomorrow, 就是好事  你不必这样说
that that's good. You don't have to say that. 你仍然可以说我明天被车撞了是件坏事
You can still say it's a bad thing that I got hit by a car tomorrow, 因为不管怎么说  如果我明天没被车撞
because after all, if I hadn't gotten hit by a car tomorrow, 也不意味着我被判处永生之刑
it's not as though I would have been condemned to immortality, 我可以再接着活10年  20年或者30年
I just would have lived another 10 or 20 or 30 years. 那些岁月对我来讲都是美好的
And those years would have been good ones for me. 或许即使我
And maybe even when I die-- 假设我活了100岁
let's suppose I live to the ripe old age of 100-- 我100岁死了的时候  我依然可以说
when I die at 100, I could perhaps still say, 100岁死了对我来讲仍然是坏事
it's a bad thing for me that I die at the age of 100. 因为如果我不死
Because if I hadn't died now, 我还能多活10  20  30年
I might have lived another 10, 20, 30 years 继续享受人生
and still enjoyed things in life, 享尽天伦之乐
enjoyed playing with my great grandchildren, whatever it is. 说永生是坏事并不是在说
To say that immortality is bad is not to say 不管我们什么时候死都是好事
it's a good thing that we die when we do. 你仍然可以认为
You can still believe consistency--consistently-- 我们死得太早了
that we die too soon. 即使在原则上  最终  早晚
Even if in principle, eventually, sooner or later, 死亡将不再是坏事
death would no longer be bad, 但它来得太早依然是坏事
it could be that it comes too soon for all of us. 我们要问的问题仍然是
Still, the question we want to ask is, 有没有可能  想象一种生活
is there any way even to imagine an immortal life 值得永远过下去
that would be worth having? 原则上  永生可以是好事吗
In principle, could immortality be a good thing? 或者像威廉姆斯所说  即使在原则上
Or, is Williams right, that no, even in principle, 不论你多么天马行空地想象
go as fantastic and science fictiony as you want, 在原则上永生也不会令人向往
in principle an immortal life could not be desirable? 所以在下节课前
So until next time, 我请你们彻底地思考一下这个问题
I invite you to think that question through. 如果你陷入永生的怪圈
If you're trapped into the prospect of immortality, 你希望永远过一种什么样的生活
what would the best kind of immortal life be like? 



 Chapter 18: 不朽性（二）：生命的价值（一）


我们一直在讨论
We've been talking about the question as to whether 永远不死是否值得期待
or not it would be desirable to live forever, 永生是不是件好事
whether immortality would actually be a good thing, 是像我们大家一般认为的那样
as most of us normally presume, 还是像伯纳德·威廉姆斯所说的那样
or whether in fact, as Bernard Williams argues, 它并不值得期待
it would be undesirable. 我们要研究的问题是
The question we turned to was, 尽可能打开你的思路
just let your imagination run free. 不去考虑苟延残喘地延长
Instead of asking what would it be like to continue living a longer 现实生活中那种每况愈下的生活
kind of trajectory that humans have in the real world 你会生病
where you just get sicker 衰老  有气无力
and more and more frail and incapacitated, 不去考虑那样的永生是否有价值
ask yourself not whether immortality of that sort would be valuable, 而是去考虑是否能描述一种
but is it even so much as possible to describe a life 你想永远过下去的生活
that you would want to live forever? 这是我上节课留给你们的问题
That's the question I left you with last time. 我想我已经表明了我的态度
I think I already tipped my cards on this matter. 我倾向于认同威廉姆斯的观点
I'm inclined to agree with Williams. 我认为不管我们如何定义这种生活
I think that no matter how we try to fill in the blank, 那会是个很长的定义
it's a very long blank. 这里关键的一点就是  永生的意思
The crucial point here for us is that immortality means 并不是活很长时间
not just living a very long time 也不是活特别长时间
or even an extraordinarily long time, 而是永远地活下去
but literally living forever. 我觉得这很难
I think it's very difficult, 实际上我觉得根本就不可能
indeed I think it's impossible, 有你希望永远做下去的事情
to think of anything you'd want to do forever. 我有位朋友
I have a friend who once 有一次跟我说他希望永远活着
claimed to me that he wanted to live forever 这样他可以每天吃泰国菜
so that he could have Thai food every day for the rest of, 直到永远
well, the rest of eternity. 我也蛮喜欢泰国菜的
I like Thai food just fine, 但是一想到要
but the prospect of having 日复一日地吃泰国菜
Thai food day after day after day after day 吃上几千  几万  几亿  几兆年
for thousands, millions, billions, trillions of years 就没那么吸引人了
no longer seems an attractive proposal. 看上去倒更像是一场噩梦
It seems like it becomes some kind of a nightmare. 我前面也举过相同的例子
And the same way that I indicated previously 虽然我喜欢吃巧克力
that although I like chocolate-- 我爱巧克力
I love chocolate-- 但要让我一直不停地
the prospect of having to eat more and more 不停地吃巧克力
and more and more and more chocolate, 那最后就我就想吐了
eventually the idea becomes a sickening one. 随便举任何一件事
Think of any activity. 你们有些人喜欢玩填字游戏
Some of you may enjoy doing crossword puzzles, 可能每天花上几小时玩玩字谜很有意思
and perhaps doing crossword puzzles a couple hours a day is enjoyable. 但设想让你日复一日地猜字谜
But imagine doing crossword puzzles every day 十年  一千年
for 10 years, 1,000 years, 一万年  一亿年  一兆年
a million years, a billion years, a trillion years. 最后  在我看来
Eventually, presumably, so it seems to me, 你大概会说  "我实在不愿猜字谜了"
you'd end up saying, "I'm really tired of crossword puzzles." 当然  还会有一些你从没见过的
Sure, there'd be some new particular puzzle 新字谜
you hadn't seen before, 但你曾经沧海难为水  你会说
but you'd sort of step up a level and say, "尽管我没做过这个字谜
"Although I haven't seen this particular one before, 但我以前做的已经太多了
I've seen crossword puzzles before. 万变不离其宗
There's really nothing new under the sun here. 尽管这个字谜的组合方式我没见过
The fact that I haven't seen this particular combination of words 但也引不起我的兴趣"
isn't enough to make it interesting." 当然  填字游戏也不是什么艰深难题
Well, crossword puzzles aren't a very deep subject, 我们也许仍感疑惑
and we might wonder whether or not 如果我们找到了
we would do better if we were engaged in 更具挑战性的问题  会不会更有意思呢
something more mentally challenging than that. 这也许会给我带来不一样的体验
This may indicate something unusual about me, 我很喜欢数学
but I rather like math. 花大量时间研究数学问题
And the prospect of having a lot of time to pursue math problems 做深入细致的演算看起来很吸引人
of a richer and deeper sort seems fairly attractive. 但即便如此
Yet even there, 当我想到要永远研究数学
when I imagine an eternity of thinking about math-- 或者永远研究哲学
or for that matter, an eternity of thinking about philosophy, 比起数学  显然我更喜欢哲学
which I obviously like even more than math-- 这都不是令人向往的生活
the prospect seems an unattractive one. 我想不出自己希望永远干什么
I can't think of any activity I'd want to do forever. 当然  这个说法里有漏洞
Now, of course, that's a bit of a cheat 我们并没说过要永远
because the claim isn't to spend eternity 研究数学而不干任何别的事情
doing math problems and nothing but math problems. 我们并非用50  80  100年的时间
Right now, with our 50, 80, 100 years, 并不是每天都干同一件事
we don't fill our day doing only one kind of activity. 我们每天事务纷杂
We fill our day with a mixture of activities. 但这对解决问题毫无帮助
But it doesn't really help 晚上吃泰国菜  中午吃中餐
having Thai food for dinner and Chinese for lunch. 或者周一周三周五吃中餐
Or perhaps Chinese on Monday, Wednesdays, and Fridays 周六周日吃泰国菜
and Thai on Saturdays and Sundays 每天下午花两个小时研究数学
and spending two hours in the afternoon doing math 早上花三个小时研究哲学
and three hours in the morning doing philosophy. 这样的生活让人向往
That sounds like a pretty pleasant life. 但是
But again, 当你想到永远过这样生活
if you think of the possibility of doing that for all eternity 无法摆脱
and never getting away from it, 无从解放的时候
never being free from it, 我认为  你对永生的美好憧憬
the positive dream of immortality, 就会变成噩梦
I think, becomes a nightmare. 当然  也许我的想象力不够奔放
Well again, maybe I'm not just being creative enough in my imagination. 我过去的一位同事曾描述过
Different former colleague of mine once talked about the prospect of 天堂里神仙般的日子
having a kind of heavenly vision of the divine. 或许那值得永远拥有
Maybe that would be desirable forever. 她描述说  想想当你
And she described it as, think of what it's like to 和一位挚友言语投机
have a really great conversation with a friend 你希望谈话一直继续
that you wish would never end, 除了上帝
except God's 谁也不是如此博学的挚友
this infinitely rich friend 所以这样的谈话值得永远持续
and so the conversation ends up seeming desirable forever. 当然  我可以说这样的话
Well again, I can say the words, 但当我想象这种情形
but when I try to imagine that possibility 认真来看  至少就我个人来讲
and take it seriously, at least speaking personally, 这一点都说不通
it doesn't--it doesn't hold up. 我没有一位朋友
No friend that I've ever talked with is one 我愿意和他永远交谈下去
that I actually would want to spend eternity talking to. 当然  有人可能会说
And it's of course possible to say, well, 只是想象有这样一位朋友
just imagine a friend that 你愿意和他永远交谈下去
you would want to talk through all eternity to. 但问题是
But the whole point is, 我想象不出这种情形
I can't imagine what that would be like. 我尽力去想象一种生活
When I do my best to imagine some kind of existence 它可能令我向往并永远吸引我
that would be desirable or attractive forever, 我想不出来  这简直是场噩梦
it just doesn't work. It becomes a nightmare. 当然  也许我们不用这样
Well again, maybe what we need to do is not so much 想象同样的情形
just imagine the same cycling 一周接着一周不断发生
going through week after week after week, 我们可以拿职业生涯为例
but whole careers. 也许你可以花50年
Maybe you could spend 50 or 或者100年专职研究哲学
100 years pursuing philosophy as your career. 然后花50年或者100年研究数学
And then 50 or 100 years pursuing math as your career. 花50年或100年去旅游
And 50 or 100 years traveling around the world. 花50年或100年去搞艺术
And 50 or 100 years being an artist 画些水彩画  诸如此类
and working on your water colors, or whatever it is. 好了  看上去好像
Well, that certainly seems like 我们能消磨更多的时间
we could probably get more time out of that. 但是  问题的关键在于
But again, the crucial point to remember is 永远的意思是永无尽头
that forever is literally forever. 我想象不出任何一种生活
There's no life that I'm able to imagine 我希望永远过下去
for myself that's one that I would want to take on forever. 当然  你可能会说应该有些生物
Well, you might say surely there could be creatures 会希望永生
that would want to live forever, 会享受永生
that would enjoy an eternal existence. 也许你说得不错
And I think that's probably right. 科学家已经做过如下的实验
So scientists have learned how to do the following. 有一些...
There are certain-- 你可以在老鼠大脑中植入一个电极
you can take a rat and put an electrode in his brain. 如果电极位置正确
If you put the electrode in just the right place, 那么当电极通电
then when the electrode gets turned on, 它就会刺激老鼠的快乐中枢
it stimulates the pleasure center in the rat's brain 使它获得一阵快感
and it gets a little burst of pleasure, 很强烈的一阵快感
a pretty intense burst of pleasure. 实际上  你可以把电极和导线
And in fact, you can take the wire, the electrode, 接到一个控制杆上  然后教老鼠
and hook it up to a lever and teach the rat 推动控制杆
how to push the lever 使它自己获得快感
and give itself a little burst of pleasure. 现在  老鼠会怎么做呢
Now, what happens to rats when you do this? 或许  不出所料
Well, maybe unsurprisingly, 它们会不停地推控制杆
what they do is, they keep pressing the lever. 实际上  它们不吃不喝地推控制杆
Indeed, they press the lever and they'll stop eating, 它们不再有交配的欲望
they're no longer interested in sex. 它们只是不停地
They basically just give themselves 使自己获得快感
this little orgasmic burst of pleasure-- 直到它们死去
well, until they die. 当然  死去对老鼠是件坏事
Now well, of course, it's too bad the rat dies, 但如果我们假设老鼠能够永生
but if we imagine the rat not being mortal-- 也许你能给它静脉点滴
perhaps you've got it on IV 补充营养
so it's getting its nutrients that way-- 那么很容易想象老鼠
then perhaps it's easy to imagine the rat 会永不停歇地推控制杆
simply pressing the lever forever, 使自己获得快感
getting this intense burst of pleasure 永生永世心满意足地做这一件事
and being content to do that for all eternity. 想象老鼠这么做很容易
So if it's so easy to imagine that for the rat, 为什么不能想象我们自己呢
why not for us? 我们为什么不能如法炮制呢
Why not just put our own orgasmatron hat on with a little-- 现在不是老鼠了  而是人类
not rat lever, but now human lever-- 控制人脑内电极产生刺激
with the electrodes stimulating our own brains 使我们获得强烈的快感
so that we get this intense burst of pleasure? 我们假设这种快感永不衰竭
And just imagine this intense burst of pleasure going on forever. 还有什么比这更令人神往呢
What could be more desirable than that? 当我想到这件事的时候
Except, when I think about that, 我也请你们思考一下
and I invite you to think about that, 我不觉得这番景象有多吸引人
I don't actually find that an especially attractive prospect. 请注意
Mind you, 我并不是在说
it's not that I think 这种刺激不能使我们永远获得快感
we couldn't be stimulated to get pleasure forever. 我是在说  人和老鼠是有区别的
It's that there's something that distinguishes humans from rats. 当我...  我当然会非常享受
When I--No doubt I would enjoy it. 无疑  你在很长一段时间内也会非常享受
And no doubt you would enjoy it for a very long time. 但我认为过了一段时间  会出现...
But I imagine that after a period, there'd be this-- 人类有审视自身经历的能力
Well, humans have this ability to look down on their experiences, 或者说跳出圈外
or step back from their experiences, 自我评价的能力
and assess them. 即使现在  我坐在这里讲课
Even now, as I'm sitting here lecturing to you, 我的一部分
part of me, 因为我正在提这个问题
because of this very question that I'm raising, 我的一部分意识在想  课堂效果如何
is thinking about how's the lecture going, 我讲清楚了应该讲清楚的内容了吗
and am I going to get through what I need to get through, 如此这般
and so forth and so on. 我们可以反省自己正在做的事
We can reflect on our first order or base level experiences. 现在  假设你在快乐制造仪里
Now, imagine then that you're in the pleasure-making machine. 过了一会儿  你的部分意识会问
After a while, part of you is going to start asking, "我怎么觉得这感觉和昨天一样
"Huh, say, it feels the same as it was yesterday, 而且和前天  大前天也一样
and the day before that and the day before that. 我估计明天还是这感觉
I imagine this is how it's going to feel tomorrow, 后天也是  大后天也是"
and the day after that and the day after that." 那么最终你会开始发问
And eventually this question would start, "这就是生活的全部吗
"Is this really all there is to life, 就是这样天天享受快感吗"
just simple pleasure like this?" 作为人  不同于老鼠
The thing about being human is, unlike the rat, 我们不是得过且过地活着
you're not just going to stay caught up in the moment. 我们要站在更高的角度
You're going to take this meta-level or higher level standpoint, 来反思这种快感  我们要问
look down at the pleasure and wonder, "这就是生活的全部吗"
"Is this all that there is to life?" 我估计最后
And I think eventually 这个问题会折磨你
that question would gnaw at you 侵蚀你  凌驾于你的快乐之上
and sour and override the pleasure. 最终  你会恐怖地发现
Eventually, you'd become horrified that 实际上
you were, in effect, 你陷入了和老鼠同样的境遇
stuck in this rat-like existence. 当然  你的意识告诉你
Of course, the human part of you is able to say 老鼠般的生活不是全部
there's more to you than this rat-like existence. 确切来说  这部分意识会奋起反抗
But precisely, the human part of you is going to rebel 反抗这没完没了的
at the unending parade of 老鼠一样的廉价快乐
simple rat-like pleasures. 所以  我不认为
So, I don't think 如此永生是件好事
an eternity like that would be such a good thing. 或许对老鼠是好事  但对人不是
Maybe it would be for a rat, but not for a human. 当然  我们可以通过
Of course, we could perhaps deal with 让自己变得像老鼠来解决这个问题
that problem by making us more rat-like 改变我们的思维过程
in terms of our thinking processes. 或许正确切除额叶能做到这一点
Perhaps the right kind of lobotomy would do the trick. 我不太了解具体细节
I don't actually know exactly what it would take, 基本上是剪断你相关的神经连接
but you just cut off and snip the relevant nerve endings 这样我们就不能
so that we're no longer 进行高级思维了
able to engage in that higher order thinking. 再也不会问
No longer able to raise the question, "这就是生活的全部吗"
"Is this all there is?" 再也不能从低级快感中升华出来
No longer able to step back from the first order pleasure. 毫无疑问  通过手术
No doubt, you can turn us 你可以把我们变成像老鼠一样的生物
into creatures like rats in that way. 我估计到那时
And then, I presume, 我们也会永远享受快感了
we would continue to enjoy it forever. 但是真正的问题不在于
But the question isn't really, 你能做些什么
is there something you could 使一个人快乐
do to a human being so that he'd be happy, 或至少永生永世地自得其乐
or at least enjoying himself, forever? 问题实际上是  坐在这里的你们
It's rather, do you, sitting here now, 想象一下那种生活
thinking about that kind of life, 你自己想不想一辈子这么过
do you want that for yourself? 你是否会接受额叶切除手术
Do you want to be lobotomized 至少在目前看来  这是唯一的方法
where that's the only way, at least that we've got so far, 来想象一种你希望永远过下去的生活
to imagine a life that you would enjoy forever. 当然  把我弄成这样子
Sure. Screw me up enough 也许我就喜欢活到永远了
and maybe I'd enjoy being alive forever. 但这不意味着我现在就想这样
But that doesn't mean that I now want that for myself. 对我来讲
That doesn't seem to me 这不是你送给我的礼物
to be some gift you've given me. 对我来讲
That seems to me to be 这是你强加给我的可怕惩罚
some horrible penalty you've imposed on me, 你减少了我身上人的功能
that you've reduced me from being a human being, 使我不能做出正确反应
able to engage in the full range of reflection, 把我变得和老鼠一样
and simply turned me into something like a rat. 所以当问道
So again, when the question is posed, "有没有一种生活
"Is there a kind of life 让我或你愿意永远过下去"时
that I or you would want to live forever?" 这个问题是问你们的  当前  当下
the question I'm asking is a question to you, here, now. 有没有一种生活
Is there a kind of life that 你愿意永远过下去
you would want to live forever? 不是那种  如果我们改变了你
Not that, if we altered you, 那个东西愿意永远过下去
that that product would want to have forever. 我看不出有这种可能
I can't see how to do it. 对了  还有一种可能性
Well look, there's one other possibility. 我们不做额叶切除手术
Instead of imagining lobotomizing us, 不变成老鼠
turning us into rats, 假设我们只是说
suppose we just say, look, 问题其实就是这样
the problem is really this. 问题就是乏味
The problem, of course, is boredom. 就是单调
The problem is tedium. 就像你研究数学研究烦了一样
The problem is that you get tired of doing math after a while, 一百年  一千年  一万年
100 years, 1,000 years, a million years, 如此这般  你说
whatever it is. You say, "没错  这里是有个数学问题
"Yeah, here's a math problem 我还没解决  但那又怎样
I haven't solved before, but so what? 我做了太多的数学研究
I've just done so much math, 它对我再没吸引力了"
it holds no appeal to me before." 或者  你逛遍了全球各大艺术博物馆
Or, you cycle through all the great art museums in the world 然后你说
and you say, "没错  我看够了毕加索
"Yeah, I've seen these Picassos. 看够了伦勃朗
I've seen these Rembrandts before. 我已领略了这些作品的所有内涵
I've gotten what there is to get out of them. 难道就没什么新东西了吗"
Isn't there anything new?" 问题是  不不
And the problem is no, no. 我们还有  即使还有新作品
We've--even if there's literally new things, 它们也不是什么
they're not the new kinds 使我们耳目一新的东西
of things that can still engage us afresh. 那么  如何解决这个问题
Well, what's the solution to that? 办法大概是某种记忆消除法
The solution to that might be a kind of amnesia, 某种渐进式的记忆消除
a kind of progressive lack of memory. 我现在在这里  一百岁  一千岁
So here I am, 100 years, 1,000 years, 50万岁  反正是很长时间
around 500,000 years, whatever it may be. 你对生活烦透了
You're getting pretty bored with life. 但如果我们现在能让人
But if we now introduce some progressive memory, 逐渐遗忘一些事情
so--a progressive memory loss-- 那么我不记得十万年前发生的事了
so that I no longer remember what I did 100,000 years earlier. 到我一百万岁
And by the time I'm a million, 我不记得
I no longer remember what 50万年前  年少时的所作所为了
I was doing when I was a lad of 500,000. 我一百五十万岁的时候
And by the time I'm a million and a half, 我再也记不得那些陈年旧事了
I no longer remember what was happening in oh, back, back. 我知道我一直活着
I know I was alive, perhaps. 或许我以前是不是活着我都忘了
Or maybe I don't even remember that I was alive. 我只记得最近这一到两万年发生的事了
I sort of remember the last 10-20,000 years and that's it. 既然我们处在这种状态
And while we're at it, 我们为什么不彻底改变
why don't we have overhauling 你的爱好  要求和品味呢
of your interests and desires, your tastes? 于是你对音乐的品味
So your tastes in music 在这几千年中逐渐变化
evolve over thousands of years. 你对艺术和文学的兴趣也一样
And your tastes in art or literature. 你现在喜欢数学但你后来不喜欢了
Or, you like math now but then you lose your taste in math, 你变得喜欢
and you become the kind of person perhaps 喜欢中国诗歌了  等等
who's interested in Chinese poetry, whatever it is. 这样能解决问题吗
Wouldn't that do it? 如果我们采用这种
If we had this sort of 完全彻底渐进式的改变
progressive all-radical alteration, 不是一些不痛不痒的改变
not just minimal alteration, 而是彻底改变我的记忆
but radical alterations of my memory, 信仰  愿望  品味
my beliefs, my desires, my tastes. 这难道不是那种
Couldn't that be a kind 永远可以享受的
of existence that would be forever enjoyable 而且不是老鼠那样的永生吗
and yet it wouldn't be a rat-like existence? 我会学习中国诗歌
I'd be engaged in studying Chinese poetry. 我会研究数学
I'd be engaged in doing math. 我会学习天文学  等等
I'd be engaged in studying astronomy, what have you. 这比老鼠过的那种生活强多了
That's far better than the rat's existence. 而且  我不会感到厌烦
And yet, at no point do I become bored, 因为大致说来
because, roughly, 我每个时期都不一样
I'm so different from period to period to period. 实际上  我认为
Well, I think actually, 在一些情况下  这是可以实现的
you probably could tell a story where that was true, 特别是失忆药的剂量足够的情况下
especially if we throw in enough doses of memory loss. 但这个例子应该会使你想起
But this case should remind you of something, 我们以前谈到过的一个例子
because this case is one that we've actually discussed 即  玛士撒拉案例
before under the label of "Methuselah." 玛士撒拉  还记得吗
Methuselah, remember, 当我们谈到人格同一性
when we talked about personal identity, 我们想象一个人
we imagined somebody 我当时说的时间还比较短
-much shorter-lived at that time. 我说的是几百年  一百岁
I think it was several hundred years, a hundred years old, 200  300  600  700  800  900岁
200 years old, 300 years old, 600, 700, 800, 900 years old. 等到玛士撒拉900岁的时候
By the time Methuselah was 900 years old, 他已不再记得任何童年往事了
he no longer remembered anything about his childhood. 当我思考玛士撒拉案例时  我发现
What I found when I thought about the Methuselah case was, 即使有个人是800岁的我
even though it was me at age 800, 和现在站在你们面前的是同一个人
the same person as the one who's standing here in front of you now, 也没什么大不了的
it didn't really matter. 我会说  "那又怎样"
I said, "So what?" 当我思考自己想从生存中得到什么时
When I thought about what I wanted in survival, 并不是在想遥远的未来
it wasn't enough that there be somebody 会有个人是我
in the distant future that be me. 这还不够
That wasn't good enough. 那个人一定要和我有足够相似的人格
It had to be somebody with a similar enough personality. 你告诉我  "将有个活着的人
You tell me, "Oh there's going to be somebody alive. 他会是你  但是完全不像你
It'll be you, but it'll be completely unlike you. 口味不同
Different tastes, 不记得自己曾经教过哲学  等等"
no memories of having taught philosophy and so forth." 我会说  从形而上学的角度来看
I say, that's all rather interesting 这确实很有趣
from a metaphysical point of view, 但就我个人来讲  我还真不在乎
but speaking personally, I don't really care. 如此生存下来  我一点不感兴趣
It's of no interest to me to survive, 就算念两句咒语
and merely saying the mantra, "不管怎样  他就是我"
"Oh, but it's me" 也不能让我更感兴趣
doesn't make it more desirable to me. 我希望的不仅仅是有个人是我
What I want isn't merely for somebody to be me. 我希望他和我足够一样
I want them to be sufficiently like me. 玛士撒拉案例的问题在于
And the problem with the Methuselah case was, 经过太久时间  他已不再像我了
go far enough out, it's no longer sufficiently like me. 所以其实我并不关心是不是有个人
So I don't really care that there'll be somebody out there 仍然是我
who's still me, 要是他一点也不像现在的我又有何用
if they're so unlike me now. 但这就是我们刚才讨论的
But that's, after all, what we've just described, 循环往复  记忆遗忘中发生的事情
in imagining the cycling with the memory loss. 十万年后可能会有个人
Yeah, there'll be somebody around 100,000 years from now, 五十万年后也会有个人
500,000 years from now, 他们可能是我
and maybe they'll be me. 但我不在乎
I don't care. 我没得到我希望从生存中得到的东西
It doesn't give me what I want when I want to survive. 所以  这或许是一个两难困境
So perhaps we should put the point in the form of a dilemma. 永生是否值得永远拥有呢
Could immortality be something worth having forever? 一方面
Well, on the one hand, 如果这个人一直是我而且像我
if we make it be me and similar to me, 我就会感到厌烦
boredom's going to set in. 唯一的方法是将我的额叶摘除
The only way to avoid that is to lobotomize me, 但这并不可取
and that's not desirable. 如果我们通过渐进式记忆遗忘以及
If we make--If we solve the problem of boredom setting in 彻底改变人格来解决厌烦问题
with progressive memory loss and radical personality changes, 或许你就不会厌烦了
maybe boredom won't set in, 但我不愿这种事发生在自己身上
but it's not anything that I especially want for myself. 那个人是不是我对我并不重要
It just doesn't matter to me that it's me, 就如同有人告诉我
anymore than it would matter to me if they just tell me, "那时会有另外一个人
"Oh, there'll be somebody else around 喜欢中国诗歌"
there who will like Chinese poetry." 所以  什么样的永生会吸引我呢
So, is there a way of living forever that's attractive to me? 我想不出来
I can't think of what it would look like. 所以我赞同伯纳德·威廉姆斯的说法
So, I agree with Bernard Williams 他指出永生不值得拥有
when he says immortality wouldn't be desirable. 它其实是场噩梦
It would actually be a nightmare, 一副你渴望挣脱的枷锁
something you would long to free yourself from. 我们提出这一论断  并不是说
Now, having said that, of course, that doesn't in any way mean 我们在50  80  100岁时
that it's a good thing that we die when we do 死去是件好事
at 50 or 80 or 100. 确实  十万年以后
From the fact that after 100,000 years 一百万年以后  随便多久
or a million years or whatever it is, 生活最终会变得令人厌倦
eventually life would grow tiresome, 但这并不说明  生活会在50年
that hardly shows that life has grown tiresome 80年或100年以后变得令人厌倦
after 50 years or 80 years or 100. 我不相信我能
I don't believe we'll-- 在撒手人寰之前
I'll--come close to scratching the surface of 做完我想做事情当中的九牛一毛
what I would enjoy doing, by the time I've died. 我想你们也一样
And I imagine the same thing is true for you. 所以  或许最好的生活形式并不是永生
So perhaps the best form of life would be not immortality; 我认为它不值得期待
I think that would be not particularly desirable. 也不是我们现在这个样子
And not what we've got now, 你只能活上50  80  100年
where you live after a mere drop of 50 or 80 or 100 years. 而是
But rather, 我认为最好的生活形式是
the best thing I suppose would be 想活多长活多长
to be able to live as long as you wanted. 这是朱利安·巴恩斯在他
This is the sort of thing that Julian Barnes basically imagines 《梦想》篇章里想象的事情
in the chapter "The Dream" 我让你们读过它
That I had you take a look at. 巴恩斯想象天堂就是
Barnes envisions heaven as 你可以一直做你想做的事情
a situation which you can stick around doing what you want to do 只要你想做就可以
for as long as you want to do it. 但是巴恩斯指出
But Barnes says, 最终你会厌烦的
eventually you'll have enough. 当你厌烦了  你就可以停下来
And once you've had enough, you can put an end to it. 不过  我们能否结束生命
Still--the fact that we can put an end to it, 这一点我们一直在强调
that's the point we've already been flagging, 即  永生并非是件好事
that immortality would not be so good. 但这里的新思想是
But the new thought here is 理想生活就是
what would be good would be 活到满意为止
being able to live until you were satisfied, 活到你领略了生命中所有的美好事物
until you'd gotten what goods there were to get out of life. 这一观点让我们想起
What all this suggests, then, 这也是我以前讲过的观点
and this is a point that I really made before, 对剥夺说最好的理解并不是说
is that the best understanding of the deprivation account doesn't say 我们必有一死这件事是坏事
that what's bad is the mere fact that we're going to die. 如果永生确实不值得期待
If I'm right in thinking immortality would be undesirable, 那么我们必有一死就是好事
then the fact that we're going to die is good, 因为它保证我们不会永生
because it guarantees that we won't be immortal, 那会是场噩梦  永远醒不来的噩梦
which would be a nightmare, an unending nightmare. 不过  即使我们终将死去不是坏事
Still, even though it's not a bad thing that we will die, 死亡发生时仍然可能伤害我们
it could still be a bad thing that we die when we do. 我们仍然可能死得太早
It could still be the case that we die too soon. 剥夺说指出  死亡是坏事
According to the deprivaton account, death is bad, 当它发生时
when it's bad, 它剥夺了我们生命中的美好事物
because of the fact that it deprives us of the good things in life, 只要我们活着就能得到的美好事物
insofar as we would have continued to get good things in life. 但如果生命不能再给你好东西
But if life would no longer have anything good to offer you, 如果你将得到的
if what you then would have had would have been 是负面的  而不是正面的东西
something negative instead of something positive, 那么这时  死亡就不是坏事
then at that point, dying wouldn't actually be a bad thing. 它会是好事
It would be a good thing. 死亡只有在剥夺了你
Death is bad insofar as it deprives you of 生命中的美好事物时才是坏事
a chunk of life that would have been good. 如果它剥夺了你悲惨的未来
Insofar as it deprives you of a future that would have been bad, 那么死亡就不是坏事而是好事
then death's not actually bad, it's actually good. 如此阐述这个观点
Now, in stating this view this way, 我已经假设
I'm obviously presupposing 我们至少可以
that we can make these kinds of, at least, 对生活质量做出某种全面的评估
overall judgments in terms of the quality of your life, 你过得有多好
how well off you are. 生活给了你好东西  还是坏东西
Is life giving you good things, or is life giving you bad things? 是值得继续活下去
Is it worth continuing to live, 还是不值得继续活下去
or is it not worth continuing to live? 所以我打算转到这个话题
So, I want to turn to that topic and spend oh, 大概花上一节课多一点的时间
probably the better part of a lecture or so. 包括这堂课的后半部分和
The rest of today and some 下节课的一些时间来讨论
of next time talking about the question of, 什么是美好的生活
well, what is it for a life to go well? 我们如何评估
How do we assess what 一种生活是好的还是坏的
makes a life--a good life versus a bad life? 我说的不是高尚的生活
And I don't mean morally good life. 我是指  对活在其中的人有益的生活
I mean, good for the person whose life it is. 一种你认为
A life that you think, "我从中受益"的生活
"I'm benefiting from having this life." 它包含了什么元素  成分和内容
What are the ingredients or constituents or elements 是坏生活里没有的
of a good life versus a bad life? 当然了  这并不意味着
And of course, since it's not 非黑即白  不是好生活就是坏生活
just black and white, good life or bad life, 而是关于程度的不同
but various shades of gray, 好点的生活和差点的生活
better lives and worse lives, 那衡量好坏生活的
what's the yardstick by virtue of which 标准是什么呢
we measure better and worse lives? 好生活里面包含了什么
What goes into a good life? 思考这个问题的时候
Now, in thinking about this question, 你可以把它看作是对幸福本质的探讨
this is--you might think of the topic as the nature of wellbeing. 和我们课程中的其它话题一样
And like all the other topics we've talked about in this class, 它也是个复杂的问题
it's a complicated subject, 需要花大量时间来研究
about which one could spend a great deal of time. 我们现在要做的
All we're going to do here is really just, 和以前一样  点到为止
once again, scratch the surface. 但首先要说的第一个问题
But the very first point that needs to be made, 我觉得是这样的
I think, is this. 如果你开始罗列生活中值得拥有的东西
If you start listing all the things worth having in life, 看上去你似乎很难
it might seem as though you couldn't possibly 把它们分门别类
come to any general organizing principles. 想一想  什么东西值得拥有
Think about it. What's worth having? 好了  工作值得拥有
Well yeah, jobs are worth having. 钱值得拥有  性值得拥有
Money's worth having. Sex is worth having. 巧克力值得拥有
Chocolate's worth having. 冰淇淋值得拥有
Ice cream's worth having. 空调值得拥有
Air conditioners are worth having. 什么事应该避免
What are some of the things worth avoiding? 应该避免失明
Well, being blind is worth avoiding. 应该避免被劫
Being mugged is worth avoiding. 应该避免腹泻  应该避免痛苦
Diarrhea is worth avoiding. Pain's worth avoiding. 应该避免失业
Getting unemployed is worth avoiding. 应该避免战争
War is worth avoiding. 我们如何理出其中的头绪
What kind of systematicity could we possibly bring to all of this? 我认为最重要的一个区分是
Well, the crucial, I think, first distinction is this. 我们需要分清
We need to separate between 那些因其结果而有价值的东西
those things that are good because of what they lead to. 严格来说
That is, more strictly, 只因其结果而有价值(的东西)
only because of what they lead to. 以及自己本身就有价值的东西
And those things that are valuable for their own sake 或者说因其自身性质(就有价值的东西)
or in their own right. 以工作为例
Take something like a job. 工作值得拥有  为什么呢
A job's worth having. Why is a job worth having? 工作值得拥有是因为
Well, a job's worth having because, 除其它因素外  它能给你发钱
well, among other things, it gives you money. 好了  钱值得拥有
All right. Money's worth having. All right. 为什么钱值得拥有
Why is money worth having? 钱值得拥有是因为  除其它因素外
Well, money's worth having because, among other things, 你可以拿它买冰淇淋
you can buy ice cream with it. 好的  为什么冰淇淋值得拥有
All right. Why is ice cream worth having? 冰淇淋值得拥有是因为
Well, ice cream's worth having because 当我吃冰淇淋时
when I eat ice cream 我有快乐的感觉
it gives me this pleasurable sensation. 好了  为什么快乐的感觉值得拥有
All right. Why is the pleasurable sensation worth having? 问到这里  我们的回答不一样了
At this point, we get a different kind of answer. 在这里  我们说
At this point, we say something like, 快乐因其自身原因值得拥有
pleasure is worth having for its own sake. 其它事情的价值在于
The other things were valuable 它们是获得最终快乐的手段
as a means, ultimately to pleasure. 而快乐因其自身原因值得拥有
But pleasure is worth having for its own sake. 因作为手段而具有价值的事情
The things that are valuable as a means 我们称之为具有"工具价值"
we can say are instrumentally valuable. 因其自身原因具有价值的事情
The things that are worth having for their own sake, 哲学家称之为具有"内在价值"
philosophers call intrinsically valuable. 如果我们审视一下前面那个
If we look back at that long, 好坏事情的冗长列表
open-ended list of things that were good or bad, 我们会发现上面大多数东西
we'll find that most of the things on that list 都是有工具价值的东西
are instrumentally good. 它们因其结果而有价值
They're good because of what they lead to. 或者相反  招致损害
Or, for that matter, instrumentally bad. 为什么疾病是坏事
Why is disease bad? 除其它因素外
Well, among other things, 它意味着你不能享受生活
it means perhaps that you can't enjoy yourself. 它剥夺了你的快乐
So it deprives you of pleasure. 或者它可能意味着  当你生病
Or perhaps it means because you're sick, 你无法保住工作
you can't hold your job down. 如果你无法保住工作
If you can't hold your job down, 你就挣不到钱  如此这般
you can't get the money and so forth and so on. 最终  列表上的坏事大多是
Ultimately, most of the negative things on that list were 招致损害的坏事
instrumentally bad. 列表上的好事大多是
Most of the good things on that list 使你受益的好事
were instrumentally good. 如果我们想探究
If we want to get anyplace on the question 美好生活的本质
about the nature of the good life, 这两类作为手段的事情
what we need to focus on is not the 都不是我们关注的焦点
instrumental goods and bads, 我们关注的焦点是本质上的好事和坏事
but rather the intrinsic goods and bads. 你需要问自己
You've got to ask yourself, "什么样的事情因其自身原因值得拥有
"What's worth having for its own sake? 它本身就值得拥有"
What's worth having in and of itself?" 很自然我们会想到
Well, one natural suggestion is 快乐因其自身原因值得拥有
that pleasure is worth having for its own sake 痛苦因其自身原因应该避免
and pain is probably worth avoiding for its own sake. 所以痛苦是本质上的坏事
So pain's probably intrinsically bad; 快乐是本质上的好事
pleasure is intrinsically good. 顺便提一下  从逻辑上讲
Notice by the by that logically speaking, 并没有什么限制一件事不能两者皆是
there is nothing that stops the very same thing from being both. 而且实际上
And actually 你还可以得到其它各种组合
you can get other weird combinations. 你去看牙  牙医戳着你的牙问
You go to the dentist and he pokes you. He says, "这里疼吗  那里疼吗"
"Does this hurt? Does that hurt?" 以此来确定牙龈发炎的地方
in order to try to figure out where there's gum disease. 他引起的疼痛本身是件坏事
And the pain that he causes is intrinsically bad. 本质上的坏事
In and of itself it's bad. 但尽管如此  它还是有用的
Yet, for all that, it's being useful there. 它作为一种手段帮助诊断牙龈炎
It's providing a means of deciding where the gum has decayed. 帮助牙医治愈你的疾病
And that allows the dentist to improve your gums, 这样你以后就不会再牙疼了
which avoids more pain down the road. 所以你现在忍受的疼痛
So the pain you're suffering 实际上具有工具价值
now is actually instrumentally valuable, 是一种有价值的手段
useful as a means, 即使它在本质上是坏事
even though it's intrinsically bad. 同样的  当我工作的时候
Similarly, when I work, 我很开心
I enjoy myself. 这时候的快乐具有内在价值
And so the pleasure I'm getting then is intrinsically good. 但它同时也具有工具价值
But it's also instrumentally good. 由于我工作开心
The fact that I'm enjoying 所以我会干得更努力
myself makes it easier for me to work harder. 或许会更有效率
Perhaps I'm more productive, 把工作做得更好
I do better at my job. 所以这里  快乐同时具有内在价值
So the pleasure is both intrinsically valuable 和工具价值
and instrumentally valuable. 没人说一件事只能非此即彼
So there's no claiming that things have to be one or the other, 不能全占着
but not both. 不过  为了明晰
Still, in trying to get clear 幸福的本质
about the nature of wellbeing, 我们关注的焦点
the crucial thing to do is to focus not 不应该放在工具价值上
on the question about instrumental value, 而应该放在内在价值上
but rather to focus on the question of intrinsic value. 什么事情因其自身原因值得拥有
What things are worth having for their own sake, 而不管它们是否还具有工具价值
whether or not those things also have instrumental value, 诸如此类
or what have you? 什么事情因其自身原因值得拥有
What things are worth having for their own sake 什么事情因其自身原因应该避免
and what things are worth avoiding for their own sake? 通过上面那些例子
Well, in giving these examples, 我已经指出
I've already indicated 至少有两件这样的事情
at least two things that belong on the list. 看起来很合理
It seems pretty plausible 快乐就是本质上的好事
to think pleasure is intrinsically good. 生命中  即使不是唯一的
One thing, maybe not the only thing, 至少也是一件值得拥有的事
but at least one thing, that goes into a life worth having 就是去享受  是快乐
is enjoying it, is pleasure. 反过来  一件本质上的坏事
And one thing that seems intrinsically bad, 一件减少生命价值的坏事
one thing that seems to reduce the value of a life, 就是痛苦
is pain. 大多数人都同意
Most of us agree then, 快乐具有内在价值
pleasure is intrinsically valuable; 而痛苦本质上消减价值
pain is intrinsically negative, unvaluable, 它是负面的
has anti-value. 假设我们现在做个结论
Well, suppose we make for, the moment, 做个大胆的哲学上的推测
the bold conjecture, the philosophical claim, 快乐以及痛苦不仅仅是...
that not only is pleasure and the absence of pain, 快乐不仅仅是某件好事
not only is pleasure one good thing 痛苦不仅仅是某件坏事
and pain one bad thing. 假设这就是全部
Suppose that's the entire list. 假设我们认为唯一的
Suppose we conjecture that the only thing 本质上的好事就是快乐
intrinsically valuable is pleasure 唯一的本质上的坏事就是痛苦
and the only thing intrinsically bad is pain. 这种观点叫"享乐主义"
That view is called hedonism. 享乐主义吸引了很多人的关注
So hedonism is a view that many people are attracted to, 或许有些同学也相信它
perhaps some of you believe. 它对幸福本质做了非常简单的解释
It's got a very simple theory of the nature of wellbeing. 幸福就是享受快乐
Being well off is a matter of experiencing pleasure 最大限度地避免痛苦
and avoiding or minimizing the experience of pain. 这就是享乐主义
That's hedonism. 我们稍后再讨论
A little later we'll turn to the question of, 如果享乐主义不是正确的理论
well, if hedonism is not the right story, 好坏事情的列表上还要包含什么
what else belongs on the list, 或者它就是正确的理论
or is it the right story? 我们稍后再谈这个问题
We'll turn to that question a little bit later. 请注意  如果我们接受享乐主义
But notice that if we've got hedonism or, 或者我们稍后会看到的
for that matter as we'll see, 其它的幸福理论
some other theories of wellbeing, 如果我们接受享乐主义
if we've got hedonism, 我就能够做出这类评估
we're able to make the kinds of evaluations 可以帮助自己决定
that I was helping myself to 就像我几分钟前谈到的
when I started talking a few minutes ago about well, 如果生命对你一无是处
you know, if what life would hold for you is bad overall, 那你还不如死了  如此这般
then you're better off dying and so forth. 我们如何做出上述判断
What's going on when we make those judgments? 享乐主义为我们
Well, the hedonist offers us 提供了简单直接的工具
a very simple straightforward answer. 判断你的生活是否值得拥有
In deciding whether what life holds for you is worth having, 是否聊胜于无
better than nothing, 大概说来
you, roughly speaking, 你可以把所有快乐时间加在一起
add up all the good times 减去所有痛苦时间
and subtract all the bad times 然后看看结果是正是负
and see whether the net balance is positive or negative. 把全部快乐相加  减去全部痛苦
Add up all the pleasures, subtract all the pains. 如果结果是正的
If the balance is positive, 你的生活就值得过下去
your life is worth living. 结果若为正  且数字越大
And the more positive the balance, the bigger the number, 你的生活就越值得过下去
the more your life is worth living. 如果结果是负的
If the balance is negative though, 想想这说明了什么
think about what that would mean. 如果结果是负的
If the balance was negative, 这说明你未来的痛苦多于快乐
you're saying your future holds more pain overall than pleasure. 这就是负数
And that's a negative. 你最好还是死掉得了  不是吗
You'd be better off, well, you'd be better off dead, right? 因为如果你死了
Because if you were dead, 你就没有快乐也没有痛苦了
you'd have neither pleasure nor pain. 我们可以说
That's going to presumably be given-- 如果用数字表示的话
mathematically if we gave it a number, 你的数字是零
we'd slap a zero on that. 不是正数  不是负数  当然是零
No positive number, no negative number. That's a zero. Obviously, 如果快乐减去痛苦是正数
if the balance of pleasure over pain is positive, 那它比零好
that's better than zero. 如果痛苦减去快乐
But if the balance of pain over pleasure-- 如果痛苦比快乐多
If there's more pain than pleasure 那么结果是负数
so that the balance is negative, 它比零差  是一个不值得过的生活
that's worse than zero. That's a life not worth having. 这就是享乐主义的说法
That's what the hedonist says. 享乐主义有不同的方法
Now, there's different ways of working out the details of 计算细节
the hedonist view. 毕竟
It's not, after all, 不是所有快乐痛苦在数值上都一样
as though all pleasures count equally or all pains count equally. 刺到脚趾的痛苦和
The pain of stubbing your toe obviously doesn't count 偏头痛的痛苦在数值上不一样
for nearly as much as the pain of a migraine, 它们和受折磨的痛苦也不一样
which doesn't count nearly as the pain of being tortured. 所以我们需要制定
And so we might need to work out various, 纷繁复杂的公式
more complicated, formulas here, 用痛苦乘上
where we multiply the pain times 它持续的时间以及它的强度
its duration and take into account its intensity, 得到痛苦数量
get the sheer quantity of pain that way. 同样  快乐也可以持续更长时间
And similarly, pleasures can be longer lasting, 强度更大
or more intense. 你可以想象具体细节
You can imagine how some of those details might go, 有些问题会变得相当棘手
and then some of the questions get rather tricky. 但只就我们的目的而言
But for our purposes, 我们不用去关心那些细节
we don't really need to worry about the details. 这个想法  大致说来
The thought is, roughly, 就是用某种合适的方法衡量快乐和痛苦
weigh up the pleasures and pains in some appropriate way. 把快乐相加  把痛苦相加
Add up the pleasures. Add up the pains. 看一下全部的快乐是否大于
See whether the grand total of pleasures is greater 全部的痛苦
than the grand totals of pain. 数字越大  你的生活越好
The more positive the number, the better your life. 现在  有了这一工具
Now, armed with an approach like this, 你能做的不局限于评估整个生命
we can do more than just evaluate entire lives. 当然了  我们能做的一件事情就是
Well, one thing we can do is just that. 我们能评估整个生命
We can evaluate entire lives. 你来到天国之门
There you are at the pearly gates 回顾自己的一生
and you look back on your life and you could, 原则上  你可以把所有快乐加起来
in principle, add up all the pleasures, 把所有痛苦加起来
add up all the pains, 从快乐中减去痛苦
subtract the pains from the pleasures 然后问自己
and ask yourself, "我的生活过得怎么样呢
"How good a life did I have? 我的一生有多幸福呢"
How well off was I, having lived that life?" 或许你会想象另一种生活
And perhaps then you could imagine alternative lives. 如果我当时做医生了
If only I had chosen to become a doctor, 而不是做律师
instead of having chosen to become a lawyer. 我的生活会变得幸福或悲惨多少
How much better off or worse off would I have been? 或者  如果我成为艺术家
Or if I decided to become an artist 或是学者  或是海滨流浪汉
or a scholar or a beach bum 或是农夫
or a farmer, 我的生活会变得幸福或悲惨多少
how much better off or worse off would I have been? 那个数字会变大或变小多少
How much greater or smaller would the number go? 尽管我一直在说数字
Despite my talking about numbers, of course, 但这并不意味着
there's no particular assumption 我们真能把它们精确数字化
that we can really give precise numbers to this. 而且我们也不认为
And we certainly don't think 大多数人真能
that in fact most of us are in the position 计算出某种精确的数字
to actually crank out any kind of accurate number. 大多数人没有足够的信息
Most of us don't know enough to know 来精确了解
with a high degree of accuracy 生活会变成什么样
how things would have gone had 如果我选择做农夫而不是做哲学家
I decided to become a farmer instead of a philosopher. 不过  享乐主义也没说
Still, the hedonist isn't saying 从实用的角度出发
from a practical point of view 我们真能这样做
we can necessarily do this. 它说的是理论上  原则上
But in theory, in principle, 当我们面临选择  犹豫不决时
this is what we're wondering about when we face choices. 我们可以问自己
We can ask ourselves, "我们的生活会变成怎样
"What would our life look like? 会变好还是变坏"
Would it be better or worse?" 至少  我们可以采用的一个标准是
And the yardstick that we're at least doing our best to apply is 用快乐减去痛苦
one of measuring up the pleasure and subtracting the pain. 当然  享乐主义也指出
And of course, the hedonist will also hasten to point out 尽管我们不能精确无误地算出结果
that just because we can't do this perfectly or infallibly, 但这并不意味着我们不能做出有根据的推测
that doesn't mean we can't make educated guesses, right? 你决定是上耶鲁读大学
You're trying to decide should you go to Yale for college 还是去俄亥俄州立大学
or should you go to Ohio State 还是上哈佛  如此这般
or Harvard or wherever else you got into, 你问自己
and you ask yourself, well, 你试着规划未来  你问自己
you try to project your future and you ask, "去哪个地方对我更有好处
"Where do I think I'd be better off? 我面临的这些选择
Which of these branches that are available to me, 人生的岔路
the branches of my life story, 哪条路会带来
which is the one in which the future from here 更多的快乐和更少的痛苦"
on out holds more pleasure and holds less pain?" 这就是享乐主义说的思考方法
That's how the hedonist says we should think about it. 顺便提一下
And notice by the by, 当我们对未来作出选择时
that when we make choices about our future, 至少从享乐主义的角度看
from the hedonist point of view, at least, 没有必要考虑之前的事情
there's no particular need to dwell a whole lot on the past, 因为发生的已经发生了
because what's done is done. 我们改变不了
You're not going to alter 以前你获得的快乐
how much pleasur you enjoyed previously, 和你承受过的痛苦
how much suffering you've undergone previously. 只有将来是未定的
What's open is the future. 所以我们不仅能评估全部生活
And so we're able to evaluate not just lives as a whole, 如同站在天国之门回顾一生
looking back at the pearly gate. 我们也能评估从此以后的生活
We're able to evaluate lives from here on out. 哪一条未来之路
Which of the various futures 能带给我更美好的生活
that are open to me are likely to give me the better life, 使我更幸福
leave me better off, 那种用快乐和痛苦衡量的幸福
measured in terms of pleasure or pain? 我们尽力评估
And we do our best, 不管未来是好是坏
however good or bad that may be. 我们尽力在其中比较
We do our best to make such comparative evaluations. 当然了
And of course, 我们不仅可以评估从此以后全部的生活
we can do more than just evaluate the entire rest of my life. 我们也可以评估明年或下半年
We can evaluate the next year or the next six months or, 或者  今晚的事情
for that matter, just this evening. 我们会谈到  今晚该做些什么呢
I can talk about, well, what should I do tonight? 我应该呆在家里写论文
Should I stay home and work on my paper? 还是去参加聚会
Should I go to the party? 哪一个会使我今晚过得更愉快
Where will I be better off tonight? 我大概更喜欢参加聚会
Well, I'll probably enjoy myself more at the party 而不是写论文
than I will working on the paper. 而且离论文交稿还有段时间  诸如此类
And the paper's not due for a while and so forth. 我们不仅可以评估整个生活
We make evaluations not just of entire lives, 还可以评估生活中的一部分
but of chunks of lives. 好了
All right. 如果我们接受享乐主义
That's what we can do 这些就是我们所能做的
if we accept hedonism. 但我们还未确定是否应该接受享乐主义
But haven't yet asked, should we accept hedonism? 即便知道一些同学
Now, it will not come as news to me 甚至很多同学接受享乐主义
if I were to learn that several of you, maybe even many of you, 我也不会吃惊
in this class accept hedonism. 这是个很流行的观点
It's a very popular view. 不仅在哲学家中
Not just among philosophers where it's a view 从哲学诞生起就有这个观点
that's been around as long as there's been philosophy, 而且也存在于街头巷尾之中
but among people in the street. 这是个很有吸引力的观点
It's a very tempting view to think, 什么使得生活值得拥有
what makes life worth having 什么东西因其自身原因值得拥有
and the only thing worth having for its own sake, 是获得快乐和避免痛苦
is having pleasure and avoiding pain. 但话虽如此
But for all that, 尽管这个观点很流行
despite the popularity of that view, 我个人认为它肯定是错的
I'm inclined to think it must be wrong. 并不是说我认为快乐不好  痛苦不坏
It's not that I think pleasure isn't good and pain isn't bad. 享乐主义的问题在于
Where hedonism goes wrong is 它认为只有这两样事是重要的
when they say it's the only thing that matters. 我认为美好的生活不仅仅意味着
I'm inclined to think there's more to the best kind of life 获得快乐和避免痛苦
than just having pleasure and avoiding pain. 我以前讲过
Now, I already revealed that, 当谈到老鼠快乐机的时候
when I was talking about the rat lever machine. 我说  把我放进去我也能自得其乐
I said, hook me up to that machine and I'll enjoy myself. 但我不想这样
But I don't want that for myself. 为什么  因为生活中除了
Why? Because there's more to life 快乐和避免痛苦之外还有其它东西
than just pleasure and the absence of pain, 起码我是这样认为的
or so it seems to me. 也许我们会说
Still, we might say, 老鼠的那种快乐不是唯一的快乐
but the rat lever is not the only kind of pleasures there are. 还有其它快乐  比如欣赏艺术
There's all these pleasures of experiencing art 陶醉于落日余晖
and seeing a beautiful sunset. 我不知道你们怎么想
And I don't know about you, 但至少当我想到老鼠快乐机时
but at least when I imagine the rat lever thing, 它确实是那种廉价的  无差别的快感
it's a sort of simple, undifferentiated pleasure. 所以  它不说明问题
So, that really won't do the trick 它没有给我们带来
in giving us the best quality pleasures 人类渴望的那种高层次快乐
of the kinds that humans most crave-- 深厚的友情  流畅的沟通
the pleasures of friendship and discussion 两性的亲密
and sexual intimacy. 这种快乐  老鼠快乐机提供不了
These pleasures the rat lever machine wasn't giving us. 那么难道享乐主义就正确了吗
So couldn't hedonism still be true? 难道它就正确了吗
Couldn't it still be the case 只要我们考虑了乐趣的重要性
that as long as we take into account the importance 找到了正确的乐趣类型
of getting the right kinds of pleasures, 并把快乐定义为
then really pleasure is 是且只是这种乐趣  就可以了吗
what it's all about and all that it's about? 不  我仍然认为它是错的
No, I think that's still not right. 但确实
But indeed, 我们需要换一台
we'll need to move to 比老鼠快乐机更高档的机器
something fancier than the rat lever machine. 罗伯特·诺齐克就此提出过一个思想实验
Here, the relevant thought experiment was suggested by Robert Nozick, 他是个哲学家  几年前去世了
a philosopher who died a few years ago, 生前在哈佛任教多年
taught for many years at Harvard. 诺齐克让我们想象一台体验机
Nozick invited us to imagine an experience machine. 假设科学家发明了一种方法
So, suppose that the scientists have discovered a way 不仅仅是刺激
not just to stimulate the 你脑部特定的快乐中枢
particular little pleasure center of the brain, 而是让你彻底融入
but basically to--give you basically, 纷繁复杂的虚拟现实中
completely realistic virtual reality. 那么当你进入这台机器
So that when you are hooked up to the machine, 你会获得一模一样的感觉
it seems to you exactly the same on the inside 就如同你真的在做...
as it would seem to you if you really were-- 这里可以填上各种事情
and now fill in the blank. 你体验到一模一样的攀登珠峰的感觉
You could have the identical experience of climbing Mount Everest, 比如说  你感到风拍打着你的身体
let's say, so that you'll feel the wind bracing you. 当然  你不会真的被风吹打
Of course, you won't really feel any wind. 严格来讲  这不是真的
Strictly speaking, that's not true, 因为你没站在珠峰上
because you're not up on Mount Everest. 这里没有风
There is no wind. 真正发生的事情是
What's really going on is 你泡在心理学家的水槽中
you're floating in the psychologist's tank 头上布满电线  待在他们的实验室里
in their lab with the electrodes hooked up your brain. 但是你不知道自己泡在水槽里
But you don't know that you are floating in the tank. 进入机器以后
Hooked up to the machine, 你相信自己正在攀登珠峰
you believe you are climbing Mount Everest. 你感到成功登顶的喜悦
You feel the thrill of having made it to the top 劲风拍打着
and the wind bracingly 你的下颚  你感到满足
striking your chin and you feel the satisfaction 你还记得绳索绷断时
and you've got the memories of having almost died 你命悬一线
when the rope broke before. 这和看3D电影不一样
It's not like being at the IMAX. 问题的关键是  当你看3D电影时
The crucial point, when you're at the IMAX is, 虽然也很真实
although it's very realistic, 但你的一部分意识知道自己在电影院里
part of you is aware that you're just in the theatre. 但在体验机里
But on the experience machine, 你不知道自己是在实验室里
you don't know you're just in the lab. 当你在体验机里
When you're on the experience machine, you've got-- 你的大脑接受一定方式的刺激
your brain is being stimulated in such a way 你心里产生一模一样的体验
that you've got the identical experience on the inside to 就如同你真的在做这件事一样
what it would feel like if you really were doing these things. 所以  想象在体验机里的生活
So, imagine a life on the experience machine. 想象放入一盘磁带
Imagine plugging in the tape. 想想这是个多老的例子
Says something about how old this example is 我们居然还在谈放入磁带
that we talk about plugging in the tapes. 想象放入一张DVD
Imagine plugging in the DVD, or whatever it is, 里面存放了所有最棒的体验
with all of the best possible experiences. 什么都有
Whatever you think those are. 这里  也许不同人有不同要求
Here, you might imagine different people disagreeing about-- 好的  我们放入一些
oh, but throw in something-- 比如你想写一部伟大的美国小说
but if what you want to do is write the great American novel, 那么你就会体验到这种经历
then you've got the experience 你枯坐到深夜
of staying up late at night 文思枯竭
not knowing how to make the plot work out, 把稿纸揉成一团扔到一边
crushing pieces of paper and throwing them away. 摔烂你的计算机
Crushing your computer, 或者什么别的东西
or whatever it is that you 看你用什么写小说了
do as you write the great American novel. 或者你希望发现癌症的治疗方法
Or you want to be finding the cure for cancer. 那么你就得到了一模一样的体验
So you've got exactly the experience you would have 你在实验室工作
if you were working in your lab 获得了重大突破
having the brilliant breakthrough 你最终发现了
when you finally realize what the combination is 抗生素的正确配比  等等
that would make the right antibody, whatever it is. 或者你希望看到最美丽的落日
Or if you want to be observing all the most beautiful sunsets 最迷人的风景
and the most exotic locales, 你得到了一模一样的体验
you've got exactly the experience you would have 就如同你真的在做这些事一样
if you were doing all these things. 这就是在体验机里的生活
That's life on the experience machine. 这些事  你一件都没做
You're not doing any of it. 你泡在实验室里
You're floating in the lab. 但是体验是一模一样的
But the experiences are identical. 现在  问问你自己
Now, ask yourself then, 你希望自己一生
would you want to spend 都在体验机里度过吗
your life hooked up to the experience machine? 问问你自己  如果你发现
Ask yourself, how would you feel 你现在正生活在
if you discovered now that you have been living 体验机里  你会有什么感觉
your life hooked up to an experience machine? 这里  我需要做些说明
Now, I've got to make a footnote here. 这一完美精妙的哲学案例最近几年
This perfectly glorious philosophical example has been ruined 被《黑客帝国》这部电影毁了
in recent years by the movie The Matrix. 现在  不论何时我讲这个例子
Because whenever I tell this story now, 人们就会说
people start saying, "这台邪恶的机器
"Oh, well the evil machines 忙着用你的肉体当电池"
are busy using your body as a battery" 或者什么别的  不是吗
or whatever it was in the movie, right? 还有  "当我体验这些事情的时候
And "What if people are nefariously feasting on my liver 那些人要是吃我的肝脏怎么办"
while I'm having these little experiences?" 别去这么想
Don't imagine any of that. 并不是那个邪恶的科学家
It's not that the evil scientist 故意欺骗你
is just deliberately deceiving you 好完成他邪恶的实验
so as to conduct his nefarious experiments. 不是这样的
Nothing like that. 同样的  当我们在机器里
And similarly, while we're at it-- 不是像黑客帝国里的那种担忧
this is not a Matrix-like worry-- 如果你担忧
if you're worried about, yeah, 当我在机器里  全球贫困问题会怎样
but what's happening to world poverty while I'm doing all of this? 你就想像所有人都在体验机里
Just imagine that everybody's hooked up to experience machines, 每个人都有最棒的体验磁带
but everybody's got the best possible tapes. 现在问问你自己
Now you ask yourself, 我让你们问自己的是
what I'm asking you to ask yourself, 你希望自己
is would you want to spend 一辈子待在体验机里吗
your life hooked up to the experience machine? 我不是说
I'm not talking about, 在里面呆一周  一月
wouldn't it be interesting to try it out for 甚至一年  这样好不好玩
a week or a month or even a year? 而是  严格来讲  这个问题是
And indeed, the question, strictly speaking, 难道体验机里的生活
isn't even would life on the experience machine 真比现在的好吗
be better than it is now? 尽管如果我发现一些同学的生活很糟糕
Although it would make me very, very sad to discover this, 我会非常非常难过
I suppose it's possible some of you have such bad lives 以至于进体验机里的生活是种解脱
that moving on to the experience machine would be a step up. 但这不是问题所在
That's not the question. 问题是
The question is, 体验机里的生活
does life on the experience machine 给了你生活中全部值得拥有的东西了吗
give you everything worth having in life? 生活中全部值得拥有的东西
Everything worth having in life. 它是人类存在的最好形式吗
Is it the best possible form of human existence? 根据享乐主义
According to the hedonists, 回答是也只能是"是的"
the answer's got to be, it has to be "Yes." 体验机里的生活完美无缺
Life on the experience machine is perfect, 只要你放对了磁带
as long as you've got the right tape plugged in. 你就能获得
So, you've got the best possible balance 最好的快乐  最完美的体验
of wonderful pleasures and wonderful, fantastic experiences, 因为这就是人类幸福的全部含义
since that's all there is to human wellbeing. 假设
By hypothesis, 这台机器赋予了我们全部
the machine is giving us that. 不会再有更多的事情了
There couldn't possibly be anything more. 不会再有任何缺失了
There couldn't possibly be anything missing. 但当我想到这个问题
But when I think about the question, 我希望一生都在体验机里度过吗
would I want to spend my life hooked up to an experience machine? 我的回答是"不"
the answer is "No." 我估计很多同学  当你们问自己
And I imagine that for most of you, when you ask yourself, 你希望自己一生
would you want your entire life 都在体验机里度过吗
to be spent hooked up to the experience machine? 你的回答也是"不"
your answer is "No." 但如果回答是"不"
But if the answer is "No," 那么意味着享乐主义肯定是错的
then that means hedonism's got to be wrong. 如果体验机里的生活不是全部
If life on the experience machine is not everything, 那么最好的生活里还有比
then there's more to the best possible life 内心体验更多的东西
than getting the insides right. 体验机让你获得高层次的乐趣
The experience machine gets the pleasures right, 完美的体验
gets the experiences right, 完善你的精神状态
gets the mental states right, 它使你内心充满欢乐
it gets the insides right, 但如果体验机里的生活没有包括
but if life on the experience machine isn't all 生活中全部值得拥有的内容
that's worth wanting out of life, 那么美好生活里就还有
then there's more to the best possible life 比内心体验更好的东西
than getting the insides right. 我们下节课将要讨论这个话题
What we've got to turn to next time, then, is the question, 还有什么别的吗
what else might it be? 下课
Okay. 



 Chapter 19: 生命的价值（二）：死亡的其它坏处（一）


上节课我们谈到"体验机"中的生活
Last time, I invited you to think about life on the experience machine, 在那里  科学家们通过刺激你的大脑
where the scientists are busy stimulating your brain 从事物表现出来的客观属性
in such a way as to give you an exact replica from the insides 到人们对事物的主观认知
of what it would be like having identical experiences 对真实世界进行全方位复制
to the ones you would have if you were really doing-- 包括任何有价值的事物
well, whatever it is that's worth doing. 比如攀登阿尔卑斯山
Climbing the Alps, 创作精彩的美国小说
writing the great American novel, 供养和睦的家庭  或从事发明创造
raising a great family that loves you, being creative. 任何你认为有价值的事情
Whatever it is you think is worth having, "体验机"给予你的是意识上
the experience machine gives you all the experiential side 的体验
of those things. 而非真正意义上的实践
But you're not really doing those things. 实际上  你只是泡在科学家的实验池里
You're actually just floating in the scientist's lab. 那么我们会问自己
And we ask ourselves, 你愿意生活在"体验机"的世界中吗
would you want to live a life on the experience machine? 当得知你其实一直
Would you be happy or would you be unhappy, 是生活在"体验机"中的时候
to discover that you actually have been living 你是高兴还是不高兴呢
a life on the experience machine? 对于这个问题  大多数人
Most of us, when we think about this, 都会回答  不高兴
find ourselves wanting to say, no, 我们不想生活在"体验机"的世界中
we wouldn't want to have a life on the experience machine. 这类例子  我已经讨论了很多年
I've been discussing this sort of example for many, many years. 也总有一撮人会回答  我很乐意
And there's always a group of people who think, yes, 只要一切运转正常
life on the experience machine is 在"体验机"中的生活就是完美的
perfect as long as you've got the right tape playing. 但是大多数人都会说  不对
But the vast majority always says, no, 这种生活里缺失了一些东西
there's something missing from that life. 这不是人类理想的生存方式
It's not the ideal of human existences; 这不是我们理想中最好的生活方式
it's not the best possible life we can imagine ourselves having. 但若我们认为缺了什么东西的话
But that means, if we think something's missing, 我们就得问自己  到底是缺了什么
we then have to ask yourselves, what's missing? "体验机"究竟存在什么问题
What's wrong with the experience machine? 我们可以很快得出一个结论  即
The one thing we can conclude immediately is, 如果你认为"体验机"中的生活缺了什么
if you think life on the experience machine is missing something, 那么享乐主义者及其哲学观点
that the hedonist, and views like hedonism, 一定是错误的
must be wrong, 因为他们一直在说
in so far as they say that 人活在世就是
all that matters for the best possible life is 为了享乐
for well-being, 为了过得舒服些
is getting the right kinds of experiences, 有个好心情
getting the right kinds of mental states. 由于我们假设
Because by hypothesis, "体验机"能给人带来好心情
the experience machine gets the mental states right, 使人心情愉快
get the insides right. 如果我们认为这种生活缺了什么的话
So, if something's missing from that life, 也就意味着最好的生活
there's more to the best kind of life than just 不仅仅是为了有个好心情
having the right mental states, 不仅仅是为了心情愉快
than just getting the insides right. 那我们就要问自己  到底缺了什么呢
Well, we ask ourselves then, well, what's missing? 我想  不同的人会有不同的看法
I think different people will answer that in different ways. 如果有时间的话
And if we had more time 我们可以仔细讲讲关于幸福的不同理论
we could spell out rival theories of well-being, 这些理论可以通过回答下面的问题
which could be interestingly distinguished one from another 被有趣地区分开来
in terms of how they answer the question, "体验机中缺失的是什么"
"What's missing from the experience machine?" 这是一个问题
On the one hand, 以及"为什么体验机中
and "Why are the things that are missing 缺失的东西值得拥有"
from the experience machine worth having?" 关于幸福的不同理论
Different theories of well-being might answer that 会对此给出不同的答案
in different ways. 与其继续系统地
Instead of trying to pursue those 探讨这些理论
alternative theories in a systematic fashion, 倒不如让我们来看看
let me just gesture toward some of the things "体验机"的生活中所缺少的东西
that seem to be missing from that kind of life. 首先  最直观的一点是
Well, first of all, and most, perhaps, obviously-- 如果你只是花时间
if you're just spending 泡在科学家的实验池里的话
your life floating in the scientist's lab, 你实际上并没取得任何成就
you're not actually accomplishing anything. 你实际上并没有在生命中获得
You're not actually getting the things out of life 你自以为已经获得的东西
you thought you were getting. 你想要勇攀高峰
You wanted to be climbing the mountain, 但是你并没有在爬山
but you're not actually climbing a mountain. 你只是泡在池子里
You're just floating there. 你想要创作精彩的美国小说
You wanted to be writing the great American novel, 但你并没在书写精彩的美国小说
but you're not writing the great American novel. 你只是泡在那儿
You're just floating there. 你想找到治愈癌症的方法
You wanted to be finding the cure for cancer, 但你其实并没有在寻找这种方法
but you're not actually finding the cure for cancer. 你想要被人爱
You wanted to be loved, 但你并没有被人爱
but you're not actually loved. 你只是泡在那儿
You're just floating there. 除了科学家  没有人知道你的存在
Nobody other than the scientist even knows that you exist. 你想干的事情很多
So, there's a variety of things you wanted. 你想知道自己在宇宙中的位置
You wanted to know your place in the universe, 可你甚至连一点相关的知识都不了解
but you don't even have that kind of knowledge either, 你以为自己在创作小说
because you think you're writing novels, 在寻找癌症良药
finding the cure for cancer, 在攀登珠穆朗玛峰
climbing Mount Everest. 你完全被欺骗了
You're completely deceived about all those things. 你没有
So you don't have the 我们多数人所珍视的自我认知
kind of self-knowledge that many of us value. 如我所讲  不同的理论会将这些例子
Well, as I say, different theories would try to systematize these 以不同的方式进行系统化处理
examples in different ways; 比如我们没有任何成就
that we don't have any kind of accomplishments, 比如我们没有知识
we don't have knowledge, 比如我们在不正常的爱情关系之中
we're not in the right kinds of loving relationships. 针对以下问题  不同理论会给出不同解释
Different theories might have different explanations as to-- 到底是因为我们想要这些事物
are these things valuable 它们才具有价值
because we want them, 还是在我们了解到它们的价值之后
or do we want them because 才想要的呢
we recognize they're valuable? 与其纠结这些问题...
Rather than trying to pursue those questions-- 的确  梳理这些观点中的细节问题
And indeed, trying to work out the details 也是非常复杂的
of these views would be complicated as well. 就拿取得成就这个例子来说
Take the example of accomplishment. 我们都清楚成就的重要性
Well, we all think accomplishment's important, 但也并不是任何成就都是重要的
but it's not as though any old accomplishment is important. 如果有人制定了  至少我是这么看的
If somebody sets themselves--or so it seems to me at least-- 如果某人的目标是
if somebody sets theirself the goal of 制作一个美国东部
making the biggest rubber band ball 最大的橡皮球
in the Eastern United States, 我猜大家肯定会有这样一种感觉
I suppose there's a sense of the word that 即便他取得了这个成就
that's an accomplishment if they've got it, 也不会给我留下什么深刻印象
but it doesn't strike me as the kind of accomplishment which 因为它没什么实用价值
makes for a particularly valuable life. 所以我们就得将简单的成就
So, we might have to distinguish between any old 和真正有价值的成就区分开
accomplishment and genuinely valuable accomplishments. 同样  把那些细节先放到一边
But again, just put those details aside. 我们说  总有一些事
We can say that there are certain things that are good 比经历本身更重要
above and beyond experiences-- 那就是真正意义上的的成就
the right kinds of accomplishments, 真正有价值的知识
the right kind of knowledge. 总之  并不是所有的知识都有价值
After all, not every bit of knowledge is equally valuable. 知晓你在宇宙中的位置
It's one thing to know your place in the universe, 或者了解物理的基本法则
or to know the fundamental laws of physics. 与知道曼谷1984年的平均降雨量相比
It's another thing to know what was the average rainfall 完全是两回事
in Bangkok in 1984. 我看不出来那种知识
I'm not clear that that kind of knowledge gives 对你的生命有什么价值
a whole lot of value to your life. 所以说我们需要有意义的成就
So, we need the right kinds of accomplishments 有意义的知识
and the right kind of knowledge 有意义的人际关系
and the right kinds of relationships. 假设你已经了解了这些
But imagine you've worked that out. 那么关键在于  最高品质的生活
The crucial point is that it takes more 不仅仅是
to have the best kind of life 获得内部实现
than just getting the insides right. 同时也要获得外部实现
It also requires getting the outsides right 不管怎么说
whatever that comes to-- 你的生命所拥有的不能仅仅是体验
having in your life not just experiences 还包括正确的事
but the right kinds of goods 或者成就  诸如此类
or accomplishments or whatever term we use for it. 现在
Now, let's say, 我们暂时不去探讨
instead of pursuing the questions of 这个理论到底是如何起作用的
how exactly that theory should go, 如果我们采用这一理论
notice that if we had that theory, 原则上  我们还是可以...
we could still evaluate in principle-- 不管会遇到多少实际困难
whatever the practical difficulties might be-- 原则上  我们还是能对不同生活进行评价
in principle we could still evaluate rival lives. 我们能把所有积极的体验加起来
We could talk about adding up all the positive experiences 问问自己  一生中中做了多少
along with all the--ask yourself how many goods, 有意义的事  实现了多少真正的成就
how many accomplishments of the right sort were in that life? 这些都是积极的方面
And that's on the positive side of the ledger. 相反
And against that 我们再减去
we would then have to subtract the sum total of 生活中消极一面的体验
the negative experiences, 减去所有的失败和欺骗  等等
all the failures and deceptions or what have you. 这些都与你的生命价值相悖
Those would count against the overall value of your life. 我们仍然可以说  你的生活品质
We could still say it's--how good your life is, 等于所有好事减去所有坏事
is a matter of adding up the goods and subtracting the bads. 只不过  现在我们
But we would now have a somewhat broader, 把好事的范围定义得更广了
or more encompassing or inclusive, list of goods, 同时  把坏事也定义得更广了
and a more broad and encompassing list of bads-- 不仅是各种体验
not just experience, 还包括各种的成就
but also these various other accomplishments, 任何在定义范围内的事
whatever exactly that list comes to. 这样  我们还是能对不同的生活进行评价
So, we could still evaluate rival lives. 如果我选择做一个农民
My life would've gone better had I 现在的生活会比做一名医生要好
chosen to become a farmer instead of chosen to become a doctor. 或者是我的生活在这十年里可以变得更好
Or my life would've gone better for this period of ten years, 但是随后又会变坏  等等
but then it would've become worse. Or what have you. 或者当我们问自己
Or when we ask ourselves, 如果随后几周我去度假  而非留在这里
how will things go for me over the next couple of weeks 事情会有什么不同吗
if I go on vacation versus staying back here? 我们把好事加起来  再减去坏事
We add up the goods, subtract the bads 随便定义这范围
--whatever our favorite list is-- 我们不仅能合理推测出
and we come to our best educated guess 另一种生活的整体状态
about the rival evaluations of not just lives as a whole, 也能推测出它各部分的状态
but chunks of lives. 那么  最终的计算结果是什么呢
Now, what do those totals come to? 你可能觉得这是实证问题
Well, you might think it's an empirical question, 事实上我倾向于把它考虑成
and in fact I am inclined to think it's an empirical question, 关于个体差异的实证问题
varying from person to person. 但我们必须明确这样一个事实
But it's worth taking a moment to flag the fact that 有一些人  一些哲学家
there are people, there are philosophers, 认为这种假设适用于所有人
who think we can generalize across all humans. 乐观主义者认为
You might say that optimists 对于任何人
are people who think that for everybody 在任何事件  任何情形下
in every case, in every circumstance, 最终结果一定是正数
the total is always positive. "生命总是有意义的
"Life's always worth living; 好死不如赖活着"
it's always better than non-existence." 这是乐观主义的观点
That's what the optimist thinks-- 不仅是说他们自己
not just for themselves individually, 而是说每个人  结果一定是正数
but for everybody, the total is always positive. 相反  悲观主义者
Against that, I suppose, you've got pessimists-- 他们会说  "不对
pessimists who say, "No, no. 尽管生活或许会有一些好事发生
Although life perhaps has some good things, 但计算结果一定是负数
the overall grand balance is negative 对于每个人  在任何情形下
for everybody in every circumstance. 我们最好还是死  或者干脆说
We'd all be better off dead, or perhaps more accurately still, 最好压根就没来过这个世界"
all be better off never having been born in the first place." 这是悲观主义的观点
That's what the pessimists say. 介于乐观主义者
And in between the optimists on the one hand and 和悲观主义者之间
the pessimists on the other, 温和派认为
you've got moderates who say, "具体情况具体分析
"It varies. 对某些人来说结果是正的
And for some people the balance is positive, 对某些人来说就是负的
for some people perhaps the balance is negative, 还要看  这是他们生命的整个过程
whether for their life as a whole 还是生命中的其中一个阶段"
or for certain stretches of their lives." 我们必须具体问题具体分析
We then have to get down to facts about cases, 试着设身处地
try to describe the instance, 或许有人病入膏肓
perhaps somebody who's in the terminal stages of some illness 忍受着巨大的痛楚
where they're in a great deal of pain. 他们体会不到生命的意义
And the various other external goods of life, they can't-- 因为他们卧床不起  生活都不能自理
because they're bedridden, they can no longer accomplish things, 或许他们的家人抛弃了他们
perhaps their family has abandoned them. 不论细节如何  我们都可以这样说
Whatever the details might be,we could describe lives and say, 不管生命的整个过程有多好
whether or not their life was good as a whole, 他们的未来之路都是消极的
what the future holds out for them is negative. 这就是温和派的观点
That's what the moderates would say. 每个例子的情况都会不同
It varies from case to case. 不管如何推敲这个问题
Well, however we settle that issue, 所有这些观点
notice there's still one other assumption that 存在一个共识
all these positions still have in common. 我们扩大了对好事的定义范围...
We've expanded our list of goods so that-- 没人会否认生命中的好事
Nobody's going to deny that among the goods of 以及其他积极的体验是令人愉悦的
life are pleasure and other positive experiences. 而生命中的坏事
And among the bads of 以及其他消极体验都是令人痛苦的
life are pain and other negative experiences. 但我们扩大了好事的
But we've expanded the 定义范围  它囊括了外部生活中的好事
list of goods so it includes external goods 而不单指经验或内心方面的好事
and not only experiential or internal goods. 不过  我要说的观点
Still, the views that I've been sketching 都是基于下面这样一个共同的假设
all still have the following assumption in common. 活着有多美好
How good it is to be alive 其实就是
is a matter of adding up all of the 生活内容的总和
--call it the contents of life. 即  生命中所有的经历和成就
Add up your experiences and your accomplishments 及构成生命的各个细节
and the particular details of your life 相加的总和
as what the story is about. 这就好比我们假设的
It's as though we've been assuming, 我一直在假设
and I have been assuming up to this moment, 生命本身
that being alive per se 是没有价值的
has no value. 生命本身就像一个容器
It's--life itself is a container 我们把各种事情放进去
which we fill with various goods or bads. 然后判断它们的价值
And deciding how valuable it is, 我生命的意义
how good it is for me to be alive is 就是这些生活内容的价值之和
is a matter of adding up the value of the contents of the life. 但是容器本身只是个容器而已
But the container itself is a mere container. 它自身没有任何价值
It has no value in and of itself. 之前的铺垫都是为了介绍这个理论
We could say that what I've been presupposing up to this point is 即  关于生命价值的
the "Neutral container theory" "中性容器理论"
of the value of life. 享乐主义是"中性容器理论"的一个版本
Hedonism is a version of the neutral container theory. 你的生命...
How valuable-- 你的生活有多幸福
how well off you are, 你的生命就有多大价值
how valuable your life is, 这是个关于生活中快乐和痛苦的函数
is a function of the contents, the pleasure and the pain. 我们扩大了生命中好事的定义范围
We've expanded the list of goods that can go within your life, 但尽管如此
but for all that, 我们还是建立在"中性容器理论是正确方法"
we've still been acting as though the neutral container theory 这一假设之上
is the right approach. 但反对者会认为  不对
But against this there are those who think, no, 他们认为  如果要考虑生命内容的价值
in addition to thinking about the value of the content of life, 必须要首先明确
we have to remember--so these people claim-- 生命本身是有意义的
that life itself is worth having. 生命本身的意义凌驾于
There's a benefit to me above and beyond the question of 生活中发生的事情
what's going on within my life-- 被爱与否  成就与否
am I loved, am I accomplishing things, 快乐与否  等问题之上
am I having nice experiences or not? 这些问题都凌驾于生命的内容之上
Above and beyond the question of the contents of my life, 我们得明确这一事实
we have to remember that the mere fact 即  生命本身赋予了我人生的价值
that I'm alive gives my life some value. 这些就是"有价容器理论"
So, these are "Valuable container theories". 思考一下  接受"有价容器理论"
Now, think about what it would mean to accept 意味着什么
a valuable container theory. 它意味着生命本身
You're saying that being alive per se 有一些积极的价值
has some positive value. 然而  我们马上会发现
Well, actually, the first remark is, "生命本身"这个名词
probably wouldn't be completely accurate to say, 作为这句话的主语并不十分准确
to describe these views as saying, "It's being alive per se." 毕竟  一棵小草也是有生命的
After all, a blade of grass is alive, 我猜即便是那些
and I presume that even fans of the, "有价容器理论"的追随者们
what we might call valuable container theories, 也不会认为  "只要我们有生命
don't think that, "Oh, wouldn't it be wonderful if-- 即使我们只是小草
as long as I was alive 我们的生命也是非常有意义的"
in the way that a blade of grass is alive." 也许生命本身有价值
Life may have value in and of itself, 但我们想要的不仅仅是生命
but it's not mere life. 我们想要的是作为人的生命
What we want is the life of a human. 我们想要能够取得成就的生命
We want a life in which we're accomplishing things, 以及能够了解事物的生命
there's agency, and the life of knowing things. 因为只有学习才能获得知识
Because you have to be a knower in order to have knowledge. 我们想要有感情的生命
The life of somebody who can have an emotional side. 也就是像人一样的生命
So, it's something like the life of a person 当我们说  当有些人说道
that when we say, when there are people who are inclined to say, 活着本身是有价值的
that being alive per so is valuable, 他们的意思大概是
presumably what they mean 作为一个人  生命本身是有价值的
is being alive as a person per se is valuable. 好的  注意这一点  并记在心里
All right. Note that point; keep it in mind. 为简单起见  我就把这个观点描述成
For simplicity I'll talk about these views as though they say 生命本身是有价值的
life per se is valuable. 我觉得还有一些观点更极端
Actually, I suppose there could be a more extreme view still. 虽然我不太赞同
It seems implausible to me, 但有些人的想法还是值得注意的
but I suppose it's worth noticing there are people who think, "不  活着本身
"No, being alive per se, right-- 即使我现在这样
even though there I am and 我的大脑被彻底毁坏了
my brain has been so thoroughly destroyed 我不再能够了解任何事
that I'm not longer able to know anything, 不再能对任何人传递我的情感
no longer able to relate emotionally to anybody, 不再能够完成任何事
no longer able to accomplish anything, 我一直保持植物人的状态
there I am in a persistent vegetative state, 但至少我是活着的"
but at least I'm alive." 可以想象  有人会有这种观点
You can imagine somebody who has that view. 我觉得这个观点是非常没有道理的
I've got to say I find that a pretty implausible view. 所以我会给这一说法加个限制条件
So I'm going to restrict myself, at least when I think about it, 换一个形式表达  即
to versions that say, 人的生命是有价值的
it's the life of a person per se that's valuable. 现在  注意一点
Now, notice that 如果我们接受这个观点  并以此来判断
if we accept this view to decide how well off I am, 一个人的生活有多幸福
or somebody else is, 你就不能仅仅是把生命的内容做加法
you can't just add up the contents of the life. 就不能只把所有快乐相加  再减去痛苦
You can't just add up all the pleasures and subtract the pains, 或者把所有成就相加  再减去失败
or add up all the accomplishments and subtract the failures, 或者把全部知识相加
or add up all the knowledge 再减掉无知和欺骗
and subtract the ignorance and deception. 对这些内容做加减法能得到一个结果
Doing that in terms of the contents gives you a subtotal, 但这个结果不再是事情的全部
but that subtotal is no longer the entire story. 因为我们还需考虑
Because we also have to add in, 如果我们接受一种"有价容器理论"
if we accept a valuable container theory, 我们就得为积极方面增加额外点数
we also have to add in some extra positive points 要考虑这样一个情况
to take account of the fact that, 至少你有生命  活在世上
well, at least you're alive or have the life or a person-- 拥有生命本身的价值
or whatever it is that you think is valuable in and of itself. 首先我们得出生命内容的总和
So first we get the content subtotal; 然后我们为生命本身
then we add some extra points 增加一些额外的点数
for the mere fact that you're alive. 注意
Now, notice 由于我们为生命本身
that since we are adding extra positive facts, 增加积极的额外点数
extra positive points, for the fact that you're alive, 那么即便生命内容的总和是负数
even if the contents subtotal is negative, 最后的结果仍有可能为正数
the grand total could still be positive. 假设  生命本身有一百点
Suppose that being alive per se is worth plus a hundred points, 随便编个数
just to make up some number. 即使你的生命内容之和只有负十
Even if your content subtotal was negative ten, 那也不代表你活得不好
that doesn't mean you're not better off alive, 因为负十加上
because negative ten plus 生命本身价值的一百点
the extra hundred points for the mere fact that you're alive 最后的结果是正九十点
is still going to give you a positive total, plus 90. 思考是否该接受"有价容器理论"的意义
So, the point of thinking about the possibility of accepting 在于它能提醒我们
a valuable container theory is to remind us 是否死掉比活着更好
that in deciding are you better off dead, 死亡是否剥夺了一些有意义的事情
has death deprived me of something good or not, 不能只关注生命的内容
it's important to not just focus on the contents 也要为凌驾于生命内容总和之上的东西
but to also remember to add some positive points 增加积极的额外点数
above and beyond the content subtotal 以便考虑
to take into account the 生命本身的价值
value of the sheer fact that you're alive. 如果你是"中性容器理论"的支持者
If you're a fan of the neutral container theory, 那你不用额外加任何东西
you won't have anything extra to add, 因为生命本身只是一个零
because life per se is just a zero. 而最后的点数仅仅是与生命内容相关
It's strictly a matter of the contents. 但是如果你接受"有价容器理论"
But if you accept a valuable container theory, 你就必须增加额外的点数  即使你说
you have to add something more. And so even if, you might say, 你的人生中充斥着坏事
the way my life is going in terms of its contents is bad, 但活着本身仍是一件好事
being alive per se might still be a good thing. 那么就需要加一些额外点数  加多少呢
Have to add some extra points. How much extra? 现在关于"有价容器理论"
Well, here we're going to have, of course, more modest 我们有更适度
and more bold versions of 更大胆的观点
the valuable container theory. 让我们来区分一下两个类型
Let me just distinguish two broad types. 我们称它为
What we might call modest versions "适度有价容器理论"
of the valuable container theory say, 这个理论说  尽管活着本身是一件好事
although being alive per se is good, 但如果你生命的内容
if the contents 变得足够坏
of your life get bad enough, 那么就会抵消生命本身价值的点数
that can outweigh the value of being alive 那么总和就是负的
so that the grand total is negative. "适度容器理论"认为
Modest container theories, that is, 活着是有价值的
say there's a value to being alive, 但原则上  它的价值是可以被抵消的
but it can in principle be outweighed. 至于它是很容易被抵消
Whether it gets outweighed easily, 还是很困难  还是要达到
or whether it's very, very difficult and the 一个非常坏的程度才能被抵消
contents have to be horrible to outweigh it, 这完全取决于你对活着本身价值的判断
depends on how much value you think being alive per se has. 所以这是折衷的理论
So, those are modest theories-- 生命有正的点数  但是可以被抵消
positive value for life, but it can be outweighed. 与之相反  另外一些人认为
Against that, you can imagine someone who thinks 生命本身就弥足珍贵
being alive per se is so incredibly valuable 不论生命内容有多可怕
that no matter how horrible the contents are, 总和永远是正的
the grand total will always be positive. 意思是说  相比生命内容的问题
It's as though being alive is infinitely valuable 生命本身具有无穷的价值
in comparison to questions about the contents. 我们可以把它称为
We could call this "过度有价容器理论"
the "Fantastic valuable container theory" 与之对应的是"适度有价容器理论"
As opposed to the "Modest valuable container theory." 我觉得这个名字已经
I suppose that label gives away 表达了我想要批评它的地方
where I want to come down on this. 我认为"过度有价容器理论"
I find the fantastic valuable container theory 有一种梦幻般的感觉
fantastic in the sense of incredible. 我根本无法相信它
I can't bring myself to believe it, 这个观点...
which... 我有点赞同"有价容器理论"的一些观点
I have some sympathies for valuable container theories, 但我也有点赞同"中性容器理论"
but I also have some sympathy for neutral container theories. 有时候我更倾向"中性容器理论"
Sometimes I'm drawn toward the neutral view; 有时候又倾向于
sometimes I'm drawn toward the thought 生命本身就有价值的说法
that being alive per se is good for you. 但即使是我有时倾向"有价容器理论"
But even in those moments when I'm drawn towards valuable container theories, 也是指的"适度有价容器理论"
it's always the modest version. 我不赞同"过度价值容器理论"
I don't find myself drawn toward the fantastic version. 现在  如果我们再进行一下区分
Now, if we make these distinctions, then again, 记住  我们要自问的问题是
remembering that the question we've been asking ourselves is, "为什么死亡是不好的"
"So why is death bad?" 剥夺说认为
The deprivation account says, 死亡对你有害  因为在一特定的时间内
death is bad for you insofar as, or it's bad for you when, 死亡剥夺了你
by virtue of dying now, what you've been deprived of is, 另一种值得体验的生活
another chunk of life that would've been good for you to have. 而现在我们要搞清
And what we now see is that-- 到底是不是这么回事
to see whether that could be the case or not, 我们得心中有数
we've got to get clear in our own minds about 我们相信的是"中性容器理论"
whether we believe in a neutral container theory, 还是"有价容器理论"
a positive, valuable container theory or-- 或是在
and among those, "过度"和"适度"有价容器理论中选择
between a fantastic and a modest container theory. 如果我们是中立主义者  我们会说
If we are neutralists, we're going to say, 我们想知道  在今后一年  十年
the question is, what would the contents of my life have been, 或更久以后  我的生命内容是怎样的
for the next year, ten years, whatever? 如果那是值得拥有的经历
If that would've been worth having, 如果我生命的下一段时光是值得拥有的
then if the next chunk of my life would've been worth having, 那我就不想现在死
then it's bad for me 而是最好再活上十年
that I die now instead of living for the next ten years. 相反
On the other hand, 如果生命的内容从现在开始走下坡路
if the balance from here on out would've been negative, 那么与其今后活得惨淡
then it's good for me that I died now instead of 倒不如马上死掉
being kept alive with a life not worth living. 这就是中立主义者的观点
That's how the neutralists put it. 如果我们是有价容器理论者
If we are valuable container theorists, 我们会认为答案是
we think the answer has got to be, well, 关注生命内容但不要忘记加入额外的点数
look at the contents, but don't forget to add some extra points, 即使你今后五年里的
even if the next five years 生命内容会比较差
for you would've been, in terms of the contents modestly bad, 但或许生命本身点数能把坏事抵消
perhaps the value of at least being alive at all outweighs it, 所以  你还是活着更好一点
so it still would've been better for you to be alive. 但是如果生命内容恶劣到了一定程度
But if the contents get bad enough, 那还是死了比较好
then you'd be better off dead. 注意在折衷的观点里  如果我们问自己
Notice that on the modest view, if we ask ourselves, 永生是不是好事
would it have been good to be immortal? 答案就不仅仅取决于是否接受
the answer's going to depend on not just whether we accept 伯纳德·威廉姆斯"永生不善"的观点
Bernard Williams' claim that immortality would be bad for you, 因为我们现在意识到威廉姆斯的观点
because we now realize that what Williams was talking about 其实是永生的生命内容
was the contents of an immortal life. 如果我们是"有价容器理论者"
And that's no longer an adequate view, 那么这个观点就有了局限性
or at least it's no longer a complete story, 至少可以说  它是不完整的
if we are valuable container theorists. 一定有人会说
We could say--you could imagine somebody saying, "威廉姆斯  你说得对
"Oh yes, you're right, Williams, 生命内容虽然是负的
the contents get negative, 但它仍可以被生命本身的价值所抵消
but that's still outweighed by the mere fact that you're alive. 所以总的说来  永生是一件好事"
So on balance, being immortal is a good thing." 好坏与否完全取决于
Whether that's right or not depends on 永生到底有什么坏处
just how bad would it be to be immortal. 因为  如果你是温和派
Because, of course, if you're a modest, 如果你接受
if you accept the modest "适度有价容器理论"的观点
version of the valuable container theory, 也就是如果生命内容坏到一定程度
then if the contents get bad enough, 就会抵消掉生命中全部积极的价值
that can outweigh the positive value of life. 反之
Against that, fans of the 支持"过度有价容器理论"的人会说
fantastic valuable container theory can say, 威廉姆斯的观点是否正确根本无所谓
it doesn't really matter whether Williams is right. 即使永生会变得
Even if being immortal would become 极度地无聊冗长或是乏味糟糕
horrendously boring and tedious or worse, 那也无所谓
it doesn't matter. 生命本身的价值就可以抵消它
The value of being alive per se outweighs that. 所以活着总是要比死掉强
So you're always better off being alive. 所以生命持续时间越长越好
So more life would always be better, 不论生命内容如何糟糕
no matter how horrible the contents might be. 永生对你来说一定是一件好事
So being immortal really would be a good thing for you. 死亡永远是件坏事
Death always is a bad thing. 如果你接受"过度有价容器理论"
That's what you can say 这就是你的观点
if you accept the fantastic container theory. 我不认为"过度有价容器理论"
I don't find the fantastic container theory myself-- 有什么值得借鉴的地方
I don't find it particularly attractive. 我不仅认为
I'm inclined to think not only that-- 如果我们所有人都获得永生
not only that the contents of life would be bad, 最终  生命的内容会是无益
eventually, for all of us if we were immortal 我还认为  它会坏到抵消一切价值
--but that it would be bad enough to outweigh whatever value, 一切生命本身的积极价值
whatever positive value being alive per se may have for us. 所以  我更倾向于说
So, I'm inclined to think, eventually 总的来说  永生还是无益的
immortality would always be bad overall. 但我要提醒你们  这种说法并没有排除
But let me remind you that saying that does not rule out the 我们一贯坚持的一种可能  即
possibility of consistently going on to say that 因为永生是可怕的
even though it's a good thing that we die, 所以死亡不是一件坏事
because eventually immortality would be horrible-- 但尽管如此  死亡还是可能过早降临
for all that, death could still come too soon. 我们很可能
It could still be the case that 在生命开始走下坡路之前就死了
we die before life has turned bad. 很可能我们死后的十年
We die while it's still the case that living another ten years 或二十年  甚至五百年里
or twenty years, or for that matter five hundred years-- 生命内容仍然对我们来说是好的
would still or could still have been good for us. "永生无益"与"死亡过早降临"
It's compatible with thinking that immortality would be bad 并不矛盾
to think that in fact death comes too soon. 当然
But of course, 我们现在又回到温和派
we now have a return of the division between moderates, 乐观主义者以及悲观主义者的分歧上
optimists and pessimists. 你也许会说  乐观主义者是那些...
You might say, optimists are those-- 现在说的是更纯粹意义上的乐观
now in this more chastened version of optimism, 他们会说  "即使最终在千百万年之后
optimists say, "Even if immortality would be bad eventually after 永生无益
a million years or ten million years or what have you, 但是下一段光阴却是有益的"
the next chunk of life would've been good for all of us." 那么死亡  这是乐观主义者独特的理性
So that death--they're optimists in this strange sense, 如果他们认为生活是好的
if they think life would've been good, 必然也就意味着死亡是不好的
which means of course that that we die is bad for us. 因为我们都死得太早
Because we all die too soon. 这就是乐观主义者的观点
That's what the optimists might say. 反之  悲观主义者会说
Against that, the pessimists might say, "孩子  死亡来得一点也不早
"Boy, death comes not a moment too soon for any of us. 人生下一段时光根本不值得拥有
The next chunk of life is always not worth having, 永远比没有更坏"
always worse than nothing." 在这两个极端中间的是温和派  他们说
And in between these two extremes are the moderates, who say, "对于我们有些人来说  死亡来得太快
"For some of us, death comes too soon. 对于另一些人  死亡并没来得很快"
For some of us, death does not come too soon." 我想读一段引语  现在读其实不合时宜
There's a quote I want to read. It's actually out of place now. 我应该在上节或上上节开始讨论永生时
I should have read it a lecture or two ago when I started talking about immortality, 就读一读  但我当时放错地方了
but I misplaced it. 今天早上我才找到它
So, I found it this morning. 所以在我结束永生这个话题之前
So before I just leave the subject of immortality, 让我以
let me conclude with 来自前美国小姐参赛者的箴言做个总结吧
some words of wisdom from a former Miss USA contestant. 她当时被问到
She was asked the question, "你想不想永远活着"  她答道
"Would you want to live forever?" And she responded, "我不会永远活着
"I would not live forever, 因为我们不应该永远活着
because we should not live forever. 因为如果我们应该永远活着
Because if we were supposed to live forever, 那我们就会永远活着
then we would live forever. 但是我们做不到这一点
But we cannot live forever, 所以我不会永远活着"
which is why I would not live forever." 说得挺好的  对吧
Isn't that nice? 好了  我一直都在谈论
All right. So I've been talking for, 实际上连续这几周
actually now a couple of weeks I suppose, 我们都在讨论死亡主要的坏处
about the central badness of death. 为什么死亡对我是坏事
Why is it that death is bad for me? 我推崇的答案是剥夺说的回答
And the answer I propose is the deprivation account. 死亡最严重的坏处是
The central bad thing about the fact that I'm going to die 因为我即将死去
is the fact that because I'll be dead 所以我生活中的好事将会被剥夺
I'll be deprived of the good things in life. 但我们感觉这样的表达有点粗糙  对吧
And we've now seen that that's a bit crude, right? 我们不能只讨论生命中的好事
We have to not talk--just talk about the good things in the life, 还要讨论生命本身的好处
but the good of life itself, 而且  需要注意  或许对于某些观点
and we have to notice that perhaps on certain views, 在某些情况下
for certain cases, 死亡并不意味着我被剥夺了美好的生命
it's not really the case that when I die I'm being deprived of a good life. 因为下一段时光  或者是从那点开始
Because the next chunk, or perhaps from there on out, 生命会变坏  但是
it would've been bad. But still, 仍然将我们一直忽略的
details and complications 细节和复杂因素放在一边
of the sort we've been considering aside, 死亡最根本的坏处是它剥夺了我
the fundamental badness of death is that it deprives me of 值得拥有的人生
life worth having. 我极力强调
But although I've been at pains to say 这是死亡最根本的坏处
this is the fundamental bad thing about death, 这点其实是可论证的  也可以表达为
I think it's arguable that--I think one could make the case that 这不是死亡唯一的坏处
this isn't the only bad thing about death, 即使我们关注的是死亡为什么对我有害
even if we're focusing on why is death bad for me? 我们体验死亡时  还会发现其他的特点
There are other features of death, as we experience it, 当然这些特点与剥夺说无关
that are separable from the deprivation account, 至少增添了死亡降临的方式
that at least add to the way that death occurs for us, 我们不得不这样问
where we then have to ask the question, 它增加了死亡的坏处吗
does this add to the badness of death? 或者它在一定程度上减轻了死亡的害处
Or conceivably for some of these things, perhaps it mitigates it; 还是通过某种或其他方法使害处最小化
it minimizes it in one way or another. 我想花几分钟时间
So, what I want to do is take at least a couple of minutes 继续挖掘这些其他的特点
and pursue some of these extra features as well. 举个例子
Here's an example. 事实上
It's not merely the fact that...it's not merely true that 你不是要死
you're going to die. 而是你必然会死
It's inevitable that you're going to die. 你无法回避
There's no avoiding the fact 死亡的最终结局
that you're going to die. 比如你们都在上大学
I mean look, you're all going to college, 但并不意味着你必须上大学
but it wasn't inevitable that you go to college. 如果你选择不上  那你就不必来
Had you chosen not to, you could've avoided going to college. 但是无论你是否选择死亡
But it doesn't matter what you choose, 你都无法逃避死亡
you can't avoid dying. 所以说我们都会死去
So it's not just merely the case that in fact 并不仅仅是一个事实
we are all going to die; 这还是一个必然的真相
it's a necessary truth that we're all going to die. 我们会问  死亡的必然性又将带来什么呢
So we might ask, what about this inevitability of death? 它会让事情更糟吗
Does that make things worse? 在这里我想区分一下死亡必然性的
And here I want to distinguish between the individual question 个体问题与群体问题
about the inevitability of death, and the universal question. 先来考虑
So just start by thinking about the fact that 你必然将要死去
it's unavoidable that you're going to die. 死亡的必然性使事情更好还是更坏呢
Does the unavoidability of death make it better or worse? 有趣的是  我觉得你们能够发现
And the interesting thing is, I think you can see-- 你们可能会得到两个答案
you can get a feel for both possible answers here. 一方面  也许有些人会说
On the one hand, you can imagine somebody who says, "我必将死去这件事本身已经够坏的了
"Look, it's bad enough that I'm going to die, 而事实上我又什么都做不了
but the fact that there's nothing I could do about it 只能让它更糟糕
just makes it worse. 就好像往伤口上撒盐一样
It's like adding insult to injury that 面对死亡我无能为力
I'm powerless in the face of death. 我无法从死神手中逃离
I cannot escape the Grim Reaper. 这种因自我存在本质的核心事实
This sheer powerlessness about this central fact about 所引出的纯粹的无能为力
the nature of my existence 无疑是雪上加霜"
is an extra insult added to the injury." 而与之相反  另一些人会说
Against that, however, there are those people who'd want to say, "不  死亡的必然性
"No. Actually, the inevitability of my death 减少了它的坏处"
reduces the badness." 大家都听过"别为打翻的牛奶哭泣"这句话吧
You all know the expression, "Don't cry over spilt milk." Right? 覆水难收  你没法改变
That what's done is done. You can't change it. 当你将注意集中到你无法改变这一事实时
What you can't change, 你改变不了的事
loses...when you focus on the fact that you can't change it, 就不再让你那么烦恼了
it loses some of its grip to upset you. 如果这种说法正确
Well, if that's right, 而且如果我们意识到对于死亡
and if we then realize that there's nothing I can do about 我束手无策
the fact that I'm going to die, 那么或许这些刺痛
then perhaps some of the sting, 就可以消除了
some of the bite, is eliminated. 这就好像是你对于二加二等于四
It's as though you try--try getting upset about the 这一事实感到困扰
fact that two plus two equals four. 你对于无力改变二加二等于四
Try feeling upset at your powerlessness 这样的事实而感到烦恼一样
to change the fact that two plus two equals four. 假设你想要让二加二等于五
Suppose you wanted two plus two to equal five. 你会因此而愤怒
Can you work up anger 懊悔并气馁吗
and regret and dismay over that? 我们大多数人肯定不会
Well, most of us, of course, can't. 因为当我们意识到有些事是必然的时候
Because when we see that something is just necessary, 我们...
we... 疼痛感会降低
it reduces the sting of it. 哲学家斯宾诺莎
The philosopher Spinoza 认为如果我们只能意识到
thought that if we could only recognize the fact, 我们所认为的事实
what he at least took to be the fact, 即  在生命中发生的任何事都是必然的
that everything that happens in life is necessary, 那么我们就会产生一种情感上的距离感
then we'd get a kind of emotional distance from it; 使我们不再烦恼
it would no longer upset us. 我们不会再感到失望
We could no longer be disappointed, 因为对某事感到失望的前提是
because to be disappointed in something 它不是必然的
presupposes that it could've been some other way. 斯宾诺莎认为如果你发现某事必然
And Spinoza thought if you see that it couldn't go any other way, 那你就不会因此而忧伤
then you can't be sad about it. 也就是说如果我们发现死亡是必然的
Well, if we see that our death is inevitable 而且我们的内心也确实接受了这个事实
and we really internalize that fact, 如此一来  死亡的坏处倒是降低了
perhaps that would reduce the badness of it. 或许那种说法正确  但是回到出发点
Well, maybe that's right, but going back to the firsthand, 我不知道你们多少人读过
I don't know how many of you have read 陀思妥耶夫斯基的短篇小说《地下人》
Dostoyevsky's short novel the Underground Man. 地下人  如果我记得没错的话
The Underground Man is upset about--if I remember correctly-- 他对二加二等于四这样一个事实
he's upset about the fact that 感到很苦恼
two plus two equals four 然后他对此束手无措
and there's nothing that he can do about it. 所以他咒骂自己的存在
So he curses existence, 咒骂上帝让他如此无能
curses God at having made him so impotent 以至于连二加二等于四这件事都无力改变
that he can't change the fact that two plus two equals four. 另一位哲学家笛卡尔
And another philosopher, Descartes, 在探讨上帝的全知全能时
in thinking about God's omnipotence, 认为上帝作为全能者却无法
thought that it wouldn't 改变数学的真实性
be good enough if God as omnipotent couldn't 这简直说不过去
change the facts of mathematics. 所以他猜想万能的上帝
And so he imagines that God, as omnipotent, 也许已经使二加二等于四
could've made two plus two equals five. 他这么说有点...
And so it's a kind of... 的确  我们无法摆脱
So, it is indeed a fact of our powerlessness 这种如影随形的无力感
that we're stuck with the necessities. 但上帝却不为此困扰
God isn't stuck with them. 所以陀思妥耶夫斯基承袭了
And so Dostoyevsky takes that 这个观点并作出延伸
thought and runs with it and says, "说死亡必然没有任何意义
"Yeah. It doesn't help to say that it's inevitable. 这样做只会使事情更糟"  这里有两面
It makes it worse." Well, there's both sides. 好比说  我自己  在不同的心情时
And as I say, I myself, in different moods, 被不同方面吸引
get pulled in both ways. 事实上
What about the fact 不仅我自己必然死亡
that not only is it inevitable that I'm going to die, 而且我们所有人都终将死去
it's inevitable that we're all going to die. 那么死亡的普遍性
Does the universality of death 是增加还是减少了死亡的坏处呢
make things better or worse? 同样  你可能感觉两方面都有可能
And again, you can sort of feel the pull both ways. 一方面你说  我将要死去是坏事
On the one hand you say, it's bad that I'm going to die, 但我不是怪物
but I'm not a monster. 然而  每个人都注定一死
It makes me feel even worse 这叫我更加难过
that everybody else is stuck dying-- 或者按照我们关于永生的讨论来说
or perhaps we should say dying too soon 就是我们死得太早了
in light of our discussion about immortality. 如果大多数人
It's a pity that most everybody, 或每一个人都死得很早  简直太可惜了
or perhaps everybody, dies too soon. 这样便增加了死亡的坏处
That makes it even worse. 另一方面  让我们坦诚一点
On the other hand, you know, let's be honest here, 大家都知道"同病相怜"这种说法
we also know the expression, "Misery loves company." 一旦发觉
And there's at least some comfort to be had, 我不是一个人
isn't there, in the realization that 我们多少都会感到点宽慰
this thing isn't just true for me. 并不是宇宙单独把我挑出来
It's not like the universe has singled me out 让我死得太早
for the deprivation of dying too soon. 每个人都如此
It's something that it does to everybody. 于是  我们对死亡的必然性有了一丝慰藉
So perhaps there's some comfort in the inevitability of death. 另一个有关死亡的思考是
Well, here's a different aspect of death worth thinking about. 死亡的差异性会对死亡产生什么影响
What about the variability of death? 毕竟问题不仅关乎我们都会死去
After all, it's not just the case that we all die. 我也不说什么死亡来得太快
And I'll stop saying die too soon. 假设大家都明白
Let's just suppose we understand that 那是我说这些话潜在的前提
clause to be implied in what I'm saying. 问题不仅关乎我们都会死去
It's not just the case that we all die. 同时我们的生命也因人而异
There's a great deal of variation in how much life we get. 有些人可以活到80岁  90岁
Some of us make it to the ripe old age of 80, 90 100岁或者更长
a 100 or more. 有人则可能在20岁  15岁
Others of us die at 20, or 15, 10岁或者更年轻就去世了
or 10, or younger. 即便死亡不可避免
Even if death were inevitable, 那也并不是非得死在不同岁数上
it wouldn't have to come in different-sized packages. 也就是说  差异性不是必须存在的
That is, it wouldn't have to have variability. 我们可以想象有这样一个世界
We could imagine a world in which everybody dies-- 每个人都在一百岁的时候死去
everybody dies at the age of a hundred. 人寿命的差异性
Does it make things worse or better 到底是好还是坏呢
that there's this kind of variability? 从道德上来说  我猜想
From the moral point of view, I suppose, 答案显然是更坏
it's fairly straightforward to suggest it makes things worse. 毕竟  我们大多数都倾向于认为
After all, most of us are inclined to think 人们很难从道德上接受不平等
that inequality is morally objectionable. 一些人无缘无故地贫穷
It's bad that, through no fault of their own, 另一些人却也无缘无故地富有
some people are poor and other people are rich. Or other people are rich. 如果人们无法在道德上接受不平等
If inequality is morally objectionable, 那我们很可能会认为这样极度的不平等
then it's very likely we're going to think it's morally horrendous 是道德上的灾难
that there's this crucial inequality: 即  有些人在5岁时夭折
some of us die a the age of 5 而其他人可以活到90高寿
while others get to live to 90. 但为了便于我们集中探讨死亡的害处
But in keeping with the focus of our discussion about the 我暂且把这些道德问题放到一边
badness of death, I want to put aside the moral question 转而想想  对我来说
and think about how good or bad for me 死亡的差异性有多好或者多坏
is it that there's variability in death? 让我们先从两个最基本的方面着手
Well, we might say, let's look at it from two basic perspectives, 即  寿命小于平均值的人
those who get less than the average lifespan 以及寿命大于平均值的人
and those who get more than the average lifespan. 对于那些寿命短的人来说
From the point of view of somebody who gets less, 死亡显然是件坏事
this is obviously a bad thing. 死得早实在是太糟糕了
It's bad enough that I'm going to die too soon. 我说过我不会再重复这样的话
I said I wasn't going to keep saying that remark, 但是现在我还是得说
and here I am saying it anyway. 人终将死去这件事已经够坏的了
It's bad enough that I'm going to die. 但更糟糕的是
But what's even worse is 我的寿命还低于平均水平
I'm going to get even less than the average amount of life. 这简直就是噩耗  但我们随后会怀疑
That's clearly an extra-bad. But we might then wonder, 对于那些寿命短于平均值的人来说
for every person who gets less than the average amount of life-- 如果我们取个中位数
suppose we take the median, 把人的寿命精确分成两部分
take the amount of life that's exactly, 百分之五十的人寿命长于中位数
50 percent of the people get more, 百分之五十寿命短于中位数
50 percent of the people get less. 对于每一个寿命短于中位数的人来说
For every person who has less than the median amount of life, 总有另一个人
there's another person 他的寿命大于中位数
who has more than the median amount of life. 那么这个人会说  嘿
That person gets to say, hey. Well, you know, 虽然人必有一死或者英年早逝挺遗憾的
it's a pity that I'm going to die or die too soon, 但至少我的寿命超过了平均值
but at least I'm getting more than the average. 我还是赚了
That's a plus. 所以也许这两方面就互相抵消了
So perhaps these two aspects balance themselves out. 这样一来  既有
There are people who are basically 因寿命低于均值而郁郁寡欢的人
screwed by the fact that they get less than the average amount 也有寿命高于均值
and people who are benefited 而受益颇丰的人
by getting more than the average amount. 所以或许从个人的角度来看
So perhaps in terms of the individual badness of death, 这种说法站得住脚  也许
that's a wash. Maybe, 除此之外  对我来说
except it seems to me 这是一个关于人类心理的深刻事实
it's a further fact about human psychology 我们更加关注短期变化
that we care more about being short changed 而轻视过度补偿
than we do about being, as we might put it, overcompensated. 我相当怀疑那些寿命
I rather suspect that people 小于平均值的人
who have less than the average of something, 所受到的伤害
it hurts them more 要多于超出平均寿命的人
than it benefits the people who have more 所获得的好处
than the average of something. 如果这话正确
And if that's right-- 那么情况也许是这样的
and that seems likely to be the case, 特别是像死亡这种...
especially for something like death-- 对于那些寿命小于平均值的人来说
the extra bad of the fact that there's variability 差异性带来的额外害处...
and so some people get less than average-- 我怀疑那额外的害处
that extra bad, I suspect, outweighs the extra benefit 可以把高于平均寿命人获得的益处抵消掉
of some people having more than average. 现在让我们考虑死亡的另一个特点
Well, let's consider a different feature. 我们探讨了死亡的必然性和差异性
We've had inevitability; we had variability. 对于不可预见性  情况又是怎样的呢
What about unpredictability? 不单说死亡无法避免
Not only is it inevitable that you're going to die; 也不仅仅是说一些人活得比其他人更长
not only do some people live longer than others, 而是你不知道你还剩下多少时间
you don't know how much more time you've got. 你会想  我们刚才讲差异性的时候
Now, you might think, well, didn't we already discuss that 不是已经讨论过这个问题了吗
when we started thinking about variability? 但事实上  至少从逻辑上讲  差异性
But in fact, logically speaking at least, variability, 虽然是不可预见性的必要条件
although it's a requirement for unpredictability, 但却不是它的充分条件
doesn't guarantee unpredictability. 完全可预见时  差异性可以存在
You could have variability with complete predictability. 想象一下当每个人出生的时候
Imagine that when everybody's born, on their wrist 手腕上都有一个天然的胎记
everybody's born with a natural 记录了他们将要死去的
birthmark that indicates the precise year, 准确年份  日期和时间
day, and time in which they're going to die. 我们想象这样一个具有死亡必然性的世界
We could imagine a world like this where it's inevitable; 每个人都有死亡日期
everybody's got some date on it. 但是依旧存在差异
And for that matter, there could still be variability. 有人活80年  有人则活20年
Some people live 80 years, some people live 20 years. 但这些都是可预见的
But there's no unpredictability. 因为这个胎记
Because of the birthmark, 准确地记录着每个人还剩下多长时间
everybody knows exactly how much longer they've got. 然而我们的世界不存在那样的胎记
Well, so in our world we don't have that. 在我们的世界  不仅仅存在差异性
In our world, not only do we have variability, 还有不可预见性  那么这使死亡更好吗
we've got unpredictability. Does that make things better? 还是让它更糟糕
Or does that make things worse? 预知死期到底好不好
Would it be better to know when you were going to die? 死亡的不可预知性所带来
Well, one way in which unpredictability 至少算得上潜在的害处正在于此
at least has the potential of making things worse is this. 由于你不知道自己还剩多少时间
Because you don't know how much more time you've got-- 你可以根据统计数据做个猜想
You can make a guess based on statistics, 但就像我们所看到的
but as we saw, 不可预知性十分强大  你可以想一想
there's wild unpredictability. You can think, look, "美国的平均寿命是
"The average lifespan in 随便说个吧  八十二岁
the United States is whatever it is, 82 years. 所以我大约有...
So I probably have, 你们现在都才二十多岁
you guys are in your 20s--you know 20-- 二十岁的话大约还有六十年可以活"
roughly another 60 years are going." 然后当你正忙着算计这些的时候
And as you're busy calculating all this, 你正穿过恰普街  然后一辆货车驶过
you're walking across Chapel Street and you get hit by a truck 把你撞死  对吧
and you die. Right? 由于不可预知性  你并不能真正去了解
Because of unpredictability, you can't really know. 而且因为你不能够确切了解
And because you can't really know, 所以就很难做出合理的计划
it's difficult to make the right kinds of plans. 特别是
And in particular, 很难知道应该如何安排自己的节奏
it's hard to know how to pace yourself. 你决定去医学院学习
You decide to go off to medical school, 成为一名医生
become a doctor. 那么你不仅需要花时间考大学
And so not only do you put the time into college, 花时间读医学院
you put the time into medical school, 花时间留校学习
you put the time into your residency 并且花时间实习
and you put your time into your internship. 这是一段非常长久的时期
And that's a very long commitment. 这是一个长期计划
It's a long-term plan, 如果你在二十岁英年早逝  那就全完了
which can go wrong if you get sick and die in your early 20s. 这是个相当戏剧性的例子
Well, that's a rather dramatic example, 但从理论上讲
but the same sort of thing in principle 我们所有人都有可能会遇到
can happen to all of us. 你制定了一个人生计划
You make a life plan, 你想要在人生中完成的事
what you want to accomplish in your life, 但很明显  有的人会死得太早
and well, obviously enough, some of us will die too soon, 太早的意思不只是说
not just in terms of, "噢  生命还可以更美的"
"Oh, well, life still could've had good things," 而是说你还没来得及得到
but too soon in terms of you didn't get 你人生计划中想要获取的东西
where you wanted to get in terms of your life plan. 如果你知道自己只有二十年的生命
If only you'd known you were only going to have 20 more years 而不是五十年
instead of 50 more years, 你也许就会选择一种截然不同的生活
you would've picked a different kind of life for yourself. 所以说  不可预知性让死亡变得更糟
The unpredictability makes it worse. 不可预见性的确还有其他的潜在影响
And indeed, less obviously, it can work the other way as well. 你制定了一个人生计划  然后
You make a life plan, and then, 你还没有死
you know, you don't die yet. 你还继续留在这个世上
You continue to stick around, 那么你的人生会有这么一种感觉
and then your life has this feeling of-- 至少我们可以想象
at least we can imagine this happening-- 有点虎头蛇尾的感觉
being sort of anticlimactic. 你过早攀上了巅峰
You peaked too soon. 如果你知道自己还有五十年
If only you'd known you had another 50 years, 你并不会英年早逝
that you weren't going to die young-- 或者是像詹姆斯·迪恩
or James Dean, 迅速燃尽生命逝去
going to burn out fast and die young-- 只有在你得知自己将活到九十七岁高寿
if only you'd realized you were going to live to the ripe old age of 97, 你才会为自己选择一种不同的生活
you would have picked a different life for yourself. 在说明这一点的同时
Now, in thinking about these points, 我其实是在暗示生命的价值
in effect I'm suggesting that the value of your life-- 我们之前一直
so ,we previously were 在探讨关于幸福的不同理论
talking about different theories of well-being 以及如何让生活圆满充实
and what makes for the best kind of life. 现在我们介绍一个
Here we have yet another 我们未曾谈过的死亡特点
kind of feature that we haven't talked about. 我们认为
We might think of it as, 生命的整体轨迹举足轻重
the overall shape of your life matters. 我们也可以把它称之为
What we could also call "生命叙事线"
"The narrative arc of your life" Matters. 让我用一些非常简单的图表来解释这一点
Let me illustrate the point with some very, very simple graphs. 这些不一定是真实的
These are not meant to be realistic, 但是它们可以帮助你理解
but they'll give you the idea. 我们都知道霍雷肖·阿尔杰的故事  对吧
So, we all know the Horatio Alger story right? 有些人出身贫寒但是通过勤劳的工作
Somebody starts out poor and makes his way 无私的奉献和勤奋的努力
through hard work and dedication and effort 最终收获了财富与成功
to riches and success. 麻雀变凤凰
Rags to riches-- 这是一种鼓舞人心的生活
that's a wonderful, inspiring life. 让我们画一下这种人生的图形
Let's draw the graph of that life. 纵坐标代表你的财富
So here's how well off you are, 横坐标代表时间
here is time, 然后你从开始一无所有到最后飞黄腾达
and you start with nothing and you end up incredibly well off. 这种人生太棒了
That's a great life. 霍雷肖·阿尔杰式的人生
That's the Horatio Alger life-- 我简写为H.A.
H.A. 完美的人生
Great life. 好的  来看看另一个故事
All right. Now, consider the following story. 还是这些横纵轴
Here are the axes again. 与麻雀变凤凰相反
Instead of the rags to riches life, 想象一下凤凰变麻雀
imagine the riches to rags life. 一开始什么都有  到最后却一无所有
Starts off with everything, ends up with nothing. 这是阿尔杰·霍雷肖式的故事
That's the Algers Horatio story. 完全相反
It's the reverse. 现在我很怀疑在座是否有人
Now, I doubt if there's anybody here 会认为这两种选择别无差异
who is indifferent between the choices, 二者半斤八两
indifferent with regard to the choice between these two lives. 我猜每个人都喜欢这种人生
I imagine that everybody here prefers this life. 但是注意站在生命内容方面
But notice that in terms of the contents of the life, 仅将注意力放在局部的内容上
at least the local contents, 想要弄清楚个中缘由  的确有点难度
it's a bit hard to see why that would be the case, right? 这里有相同时段的苦难
We've got equal periods of 然后逐渐变好
suffering and doing slightly better 逐渐变好变好
and slightly better and slightly better-- 同样时期的成功和痛苦
equal periods of success and suffering. 对于这边的每一段不好时期
For every bad period here 那边有一段相同的困难时期
there's a corresponding bad period here. 对于这边的每一段好时期
For every good period here 那边也有一段相同的幸福时期
there's a corresponding good period here. 在生命的内容方面
In terms of the contents of your life, 这么说有点粗糙但你看
being crude but you see the point, 就生命的内容而言  两种人生是一样的
in terms of the contents of your life--equally good. 即使我们接受了价值容器理论  然后说
And even if we accept the valuable container theory, and so we say, "活着本身也挺有意义的"
"Hah, you know, being alive per se is worth something as well." 因为好的时段和坏的时段相同
Well, you're alive for equal periods of time. 所以额外的点数加起来也一样
So the extra points get added either way. 你会说
You might say, look, 如果我们认为这两种人生有差别
if we're not indifferent between these two lives, 那是因为我们认为生命的整体轨迹
that's because we think the overall shape 也很重要
of your life matters as well. 像我说的  生命叙事线
The narrative arc, as I put it. 由坏变好的故事
The story "Bad to good" 是一种我们向往的情节
is the kind of story we want for ourselves, 而由好变坏的故事
while the story "Good to bad" 是我们抗拒的梦魇
is the kind of story we don't want for ourselves. 很有趣的问题  为什么呢
Interesting question. Why is that? 这当然使我们想起了
And this of course should remind us 卢克莱修的难题
of the puzzle about Lucretius. 相对于过去不存在的事物
Why do we care more about 我们为什么更加在意未来不存在的事物呢
future non-existence than past non-existence? 相比眼前的坏事
When the bad is behind us, 已经过去的坏事好像就没那么困扰我们了
that seems less bothersome than when the bad is in front of us. 你可能还记得德里克·帕菲特
You may remember the story from Derek Parfit 关于接受疼痛手术的故事
about having the painful operation. 它到底是发生在未来
Was it going to be in the future 还是今天早些时候就发生了
or did it take place earlier today? 你并不记得  我们没法保持客观的头脑
You don't remember. We're not indifferent. 我们想要把坏事抛到过去
We want the bad behind us, 而不是摆在跟前
not the bad in front of us. 不管解释是什么
So, whatever the explanation is, 我们关心的是生命整体的形状和轨迹
we care about the overall shape and trajectory of our life. 基于这一点  我们便不得不担心
Now, that being the case, we have to worry then 死亡的不可预见性
that because of the unpredictability of death 会使我们的人生脱离理想的轨道
that our lives may not have the ideal shape. 我们都会觉得那种人生
A lot of us might feel that a life like this, 那种先登上巅峰
where we peak 但是之后便徘徊不前的人生
but then we stick around-- 并不理想
you know, isn't-- 还不如至少能以华丽的陨落收场的人生
can at least fail to be as desirable in which we end with a bang. 如果你开始思考生命叙事线
If you start thinking about narrative arcs-- 把它想象成一部小说  可以吧
imagine a novel, right? 首先  并不是说那样就最好
It's one thing to have--it's not to say that the best-- 如果你想要自己的生活拥有精彩的篇章
if you want your life to be like the plot of a great story, 不是那种所谓的
it's not as though you think, "结局必须出现在最后一页"
"All right, the denouement must occur at the very last page." 停滞一会儿没什么大不了
It's okay to stick around for a while, 但是如果故事的高潮
but if the high point of the story 出现在第二章
occurs in chapter 2 而在这之后还剩六十七章
and then there are another 67 chapters after that, 你会觉得  这不是一部结构周密的小说
you think, this was not a well-constructed novel. 所以综观生命的轮廓时
And in so far as we care about the overall shape of our lives, 我们也许会因为
we might worry about 想要拥有完美的轨迹而焦虑
wanting it to have the right shape overall. 你想要在何时何地达到巅峰
Where and when do you want to peak, as it were, 以及取得怎样的成就
in terms of your accomplishments? 这对我们来说很关键
Well, that matters to us, 但问题是  如果不能够预测
but the trouble is, without predictability 你便不知道应该把这个巅峰放在哪里
you don't know where to put the peak. 因为如果你计划晚一点达到巅峰
Because if you try to aim for peaking later, 最终可能无法达成心愿
you might not make it to that. 如果你把它放到过早的位置
If you put it too soon, 你会徘徊得比较久
you might stick around for longer than that, 这样的话  巅峰就来得太早了
and then the peak has come too soon. 这些都说明
All of this suggests then that 死亡的不可预见性
the unpredictability of our death 是一个额外的消极元素
adds an extra negative element. 它使我们难于规划我们的美好人生
It makes it harder to plan what the best way to live my life would be. 从这个观点来看
And from that perspective it looks as though 如果知道还剩下多少时间
it would be better 或许我们会好过一点
to know how much time you've got left. 但是我们必须要问
But then we have to ask-- 我把这些问题留给你们
so I'll throw the question out 今天就讲到这里
and we'll call it a day, 下节课以这个问题开始  我们必须要问
start with this next time--then we have to ask, 掌握死亡时间真的更好吗
would it really be better to know? 你想要那样的胎记吗
Would you want the birthmark? 你想要确切知道自己还剩下多少时间吗
Would you want to know exactly how much time you've got left? 好的  我们下节课见
All Right. See you next time. 



 Chapter 20: 死亡的其它坏处（二）


上节课我们开始探讨
All right. Last time we started asking ourselves 到底是死亡的哪些因素
about what are some of the other aspects of death that 可能使它产生危害  或者说
might contribute to its badness, or 至少有些因素是值得我们去思考的
at least other features of death that are worth thinking about. 可以想见  有些因素会
Conceivably, some of them might 在某种程度上减少死亡带来的危害
reduce the badness of death, in some way. 我们讨论了死亡的必然性
We talked about the inevitability of death; 以及不同的
we talked about the variability, 生命长度所带来的变数
that people have different lengths of time before they die. 现在我们来讨论死亡的不可预见性
And we turned to a discussion of the unpredictability of death, 我们不知道  也不能预测
the fact that because we don't know--we can't predict-- 我们将活多久
how much more time we've got, 我们似乎也无法完全掌控自己的生活
we may, as it were, pace ourselves incorrectly. 你可能壮志未酬
You may take on a long-term project and then die 身先死
before you've been able to complete it; 也可能过早的功成名就
or alternatively, you may peak too soon and then 而后看着自己
continue to stick around 慢慢老去
in an anti-climactic way. 这种不幸本可避免
These are bads of life 如果我们知道
that could presumably be avoided if only we knew 我们到底可以活多久的话
how much exactly we had--how much longer we had. 另一方面  我们必须诘问自己
On the other hand, we have to ask ourselves-- 上节课我留的那个问题
and this the question that I left us with last time-- 如果我们确切了解我们活在世上的时间
whether it would really, all things considered, be better to know 是不是更好
how much time you had. 假设我们身上有这么一种胎记
After all, if you knew--suppose we had the 它能告诉你  你什么时候会死
birthmarks that told you when you were going to die-- 如果真有这么一块胎记
if you had that kind of a birthmark, 你会时时生活在它的阴影之下
you would face your entire life with the burden of knowing, 我还剩48年  47年  或是50年
I've got 48 years left, 47 years left, 50 years left. 我会这样一直倒计时下去
I should've been counting down-- 35年  30年  25年  等等
35, 30, 25 and so forth. 许多人会发现  正如我所说  是个负担
Many of us would find that was, as I say, a burden-- 就像有什么东西始终悬在心头似的
something hanging constantly over us 以至于影响我们享受生活的能力
interfering with our ability to enjoy life. 设想有这么一种基因标志
Suppose that there were some sort of genetic marker 尽管我们并不能
and, although we didn't have 把它纹在身上  想看就看
a tattoo that you would just have to look at, 但你可以做基因咨询  检测你的DNA
but you could have genetic counseling--have your DNA examined 通过DNA测试  你会知道
and you could tell, if you had the DNA testing, 你还会活多久
how much time you had left. 你愿意去做这种测试吗
Would you want to get that testing done? 当然  这仅仅是像科幻小说一样
Now, that's of course science fiction, 而且我想一时半会儿这也不可能实现
and I presume it's going to stay science fiction-- 尽管我们的认知
though we're on the cusp of 至少已经越来越接近
having something at least approximating that 随着我们越来越多地了解不同的基因
as we learn more and more about the various genes that 会导致不同的疾病
carry various diseases, 但越来越多的人还是要
we--more and more of us 面临这个问题
face the question of whether or not we want to 即  我们是否想被检测是否患有这些疾病
get tested for those diseases. 假定有这么一个测试
Suppose there was a test. 某人偶然间
Indeed, one occasionally 在报上读到
reads in the newspaper about this sort of thing 可以对这些疾病如此检测
where you can get tested for such and such a disease. 你得知自己有50%的概率会得这种病
You might know already that you've got a 50 percent chance of having it, 但你还是不能确认你是否一定会得
but you don't know whether you yourself have it. 如果你确实会得
If you do have it, 这种病通常会
the disease will always 在你40岁  50岁或者什么时候发作
have onset by age 40, 50 or what have you. 你希望早早得到这样一种信息吗
Would you want to have that kind of information? 言归正传
Closely related question. 如果你们现在知道你们将不久于人世
If you did know how much time you had left, 那么你们会做出何种改变呢
how would you act differently from what you're doing now? 它能否把你的注意力都集中到
Would it focus your attention on 你认为是对你来说最重要的事情上呢
making sure you did the things that were most important to you? 这是个很值得...
And it's worth-- 这是个很有效的测试
it's sort of a useful test for asking yourself 反问自己  生命中哪些事是有价值的
what are the things you must value in life--to ask, 如果你知道自己还有
what would you choose to do if you knew you had 5或10年的活头  你将如何去活
five years, ten years, what have you? 《周六夜现场》节目中有段老掉牙的故事
There's an old Saturday Night Live routine 说的是一名演员去看医生
where one of the actors is in the doctor's office, and the 医生告诉他一个非常不幸的消息
doctor gives him the very sad news that he's got 他的生命只剩下两分钟了
two minutes left to live. 这名演员说  "那我就尽情享受
And he says, "I'm going to pack a lifetime of enjoyment 生命的最后两分钟吧"
into those two minutes." 可以想见  故事的笑点出现了
And then of course, the point of the skit is 这名演员按下了电梯的按钮
he presses the down button on the elevator and 就在他等待电梯上来的时候
a minute and a half goes by 一分半钟已经悄然间逝去了
while he's waiting for the elevator to come. 如果你知道你的生命还有一年或者两年
If you knew you had a year left or two years left, 你将如何去度过剩余的时光
what would you do with that time? 你会选择上学    还是外出旅行
Would you be in school? Would you travel? 还是花更多的时间
Would you spend more time 与你的朋友待在一起
hanging out with your friends? 对我来说  有一件刻骨铭心的事情
A very, for me, extremely striking example 就发生在我讲这门课的时候
of this question occurred in this very class. 许多年前
There was a student 有一位听我这门课的学生将不久于人世
in this class some years ago who was dying. 他知道他就要死了
And he knew that he was dying. 他在大一时就被诊断出患有癌症
He'd been diagnosed with, 如果我没记错的话
if I recall correctly, cancer as a freshmen-- 他的医生告诉他基本没有治愈的可能
and his doctor had told him that he pretty much had no chance 他只剩下两年多的时间了
of recovery and indeed had only a couple more years to live. 面对此情此景  他只能问自己
Faced with that question, he had to ask himself, "我该如何度过我的余生"
"Well, what should I do with my remaining years?" 他做出了一个令人惊异不已
It was astonishing enough that somebody-- 但又合乎情理的决定
but perhaps understandable--that somebody in that situation would 继续求学  并且逼迫自己
decide to take a class on death and then have himself, 周复一周地来听我的课
submit himself, to my getting up here week after week, 讨论灵魂的缥缈
talking about how there's no soul, 亦无来生
there's no prospect for an afterlife, 人终有一死是件好事
it's a good thing that we're all going to die. 但是要他直面这一问题  他将如何去做
But faced with the question what should he do, 如何去度过这剩下的两年时光
what did he want to do with his remaining couple of years, 他选择了去攻读耶鲁的学位
what he decided he wanted to do was finish his Yale degree-- 并在临终前实现了他的夙愿
thought he'd set himself the goal of 顺利完成了学业
graduating college before he died. 他是大二第二学期上的这门课
And he was taking this class second semester of his senior year. 至少坚持上到春假之前
At least, he was taking it until Spring Break. 但到了春假期间他就病得很重了
By Spring Break he'd gotten sufficiently sick that 医生说他不能再在校读书了
his doctor basically said, "You can't continue in school anymore. 他必须回家静养
You've got to go home." 这基本上是说  他要回家去死
Basically, "You've got to go home to die." 的确
And indeed, 他当时病情日益恶化  后来又急转直下
he got progressively and then rapidly deteriorated at that point. 所有那学期教过他课的老师
The faculty members who were teaching his classes that semester 都面临着一个行政难题
then all faced the question posed to them by the administration, 基于他已学习了大半个学期这一情况
based on the work he's done so far this semester, 将给他怎样的一个成绩呢
has he--what kind of grade are you prepared to give him? 因为  根据他的课程通过情况来看
Because, depending on which of his classes he passed 这个问题也就演变为
and which of his classes he failed, the question was going to be, 他到底可不可以毕业
was he going to graduate or not? 当然  事实上  他还是毕业了
In fact, of course, he did manage to graduate. 我想  这对耶鲁来说实在是一种荣光
And Yale, to its, I think, real glory and credit 在他临终之时亲自
sent a member of the administration down 到他的病榻之前
to his deathbed to award him his degree 授予他学位
before he passed away. 如我所说  这是个令人难忘的故事
So, as I say, it's a very striking story. 我并不能确定我们当中有多少人会决定
I'm not sure how many of us would decide the last thing we wanted 临终之前最想做的事是在校读书
to do with our remaining years is to spend it in college. 那么你想做的是什么呢
Well, what is it that you'd want to do? 我们再来问自己一个再大点的问题
And again, to move back and ask ourselves a larger question, 知道你将还活多久是会
would knowing how much time you have be something that 让你面临种种选择早做决定
would allow you to actually embrace those choices, 还是仅仅是一种负担
or would it instead just be a burden? 这就是当我们去考虑
That's the kind of question 我们并不清楚自己还能活多久这一事实时
we have to face when we think about the 所要面临的一类问题
fact that we don't know how much time we've got. 这会增加死亡带给我们的害处
Is that something that increases the badness of death, 还是会稍微减轻些死亡的重要性呢
or does it reduce its significance somewhat? 下面谈谈死亡的另一个特征
Here's another feature. 谈到了死亡的必然性  可变性
In addition to the inevitability, in addition to the variability, 死亡的不可预见性
in addition to the unpredictability, there's the fact that 还有一样  我喜欢称之为死亡的普遍性
death is, as I like to think of it, ubiquitous. 我的意思不是说我们周围总有人即将离世
I don't just mean the fact that people are dying all around us, 而是我们会随时与死神相遇
but I mean rather, you yourself could die at any time. 谁也不能保证我们
There's never any getting away from the possibility 不会立马就死
that you'll die now. 即使是有所征兆
Even if we didn't have unpredictability, 当然  即使我们没有征兆
I mean rather, even if we had unpredictability, 也不必按着有无征兆来探讨死亡的普遍性
it wouldn't necessarily follow that death was pervasive in this way. 我想说的重点是
The point I've got in mind here is this-- 即使我们认为自己十分安全的时候
even when you think you're perfectly safe, 你也可能会死于中风
you could of course die of a stroke. 或者死于心脏病突发
You could die of a heart attack. 即使是年轻人也会死于动脉瘤
Even somebody who's young could have an aneurysm. 或者像我喜欢的一个案例那样
Or one of my favorite examples, 你可能正坐在...
you could be sitting in your-- 你正像往常一样读着报纸
you read this sort of thing in the newspaper periodically-- 你可能正呆在你的卧室里面
you could be sitting in your living room 这时一驾飞机突然撞向你的房子
when suddenly an airplane crashes into your house, 杀死了你
killing you. 事情就这样发生了
These sorts of things happen. 你原以为自己很安全
You thought you were safe. 你正在看电视节目重播
You were watching reruns on television-- 然而下一分钟  你就死了
the next minute, you're dead. 人终有一死
The fact that you could die 以及你无法得知自己何时会死
and you don't know when you're going to die 的事实并不能得出
doesn't yet entail that 你会在任何时间  任何时点死去这一结论
you could die at any minute, at any moment. 但事实上  对我们也是如此
But in fact, that's true of us as well. 再举个身边的事例
Yet another example close to heart. 我记得...  在我到这里教书之前
I remember--before I taught here I used to teach 我曾在芝加哥的伊利诺斯大学教书
at the University of Illinois at Chicago. 有一次我驾车顺路行驶
And once I was driving down the highway and a car pulled in 有辆车没看路就冲了过来  撞上了我的车
without looking and clipped my car, and caused my car-- 从入口直接冲过来
you know, so pulled in from 我的车被斜着撞出
the entrance--caused my car to go careening 三条行驶道之外
across three lanes of traffic spinning out of control. 我十分清楚地记得
And I remember quite 当时所发生的事情
clearly thinking to myself as that happened-- 一切只发生在一瞬间
the whole thing lasted only a few moments-- 但我还是清楚地记得自己当时的想法
but I remember thinking quite clearly, "我要完了"
"I'm going to die." 巧了  我居然没死
Now, as it happens, I didn't die. 我安然无恙地躲过了这场事故
I walked away from the accident, 车子也仅仅受了点小伤
and the damage to my car was rather minimal. 但是事实也可以是另一个样子
But it could've have happened like that. 死亡的可能性是无处不在的
Death is--the possibility of death--is ubiquitous. 遍布在各个角落
It's pervasive. 于是我们必须自问
We have to ask ourselves then, 这会不会使事情变得更糟
does this make things worse? 它一直在我脑子里打转转
It certainly feels, to my mind, 仿佛它是死亡所带来的特别害处
as though it's an extra bad about the nature of death. 现在应该让紧绷的神经休息一下
It would be nice to get a breather. 想像一下  如果世上有个地方
Imagine, if you will, that there were certain locations, 有处度假圣地
certain vacation spots, 只要你呆在那儿就不会死
where as long as you were there you couldn't die. 如果能到达那个地方
Wouldn't it be nice to be able to go someplace 让自己住上一段时间  心里想
and just for a period think to yourself, "现在再也不用担心死亡的问题了
"Well, you know, right now I don't have to worry about that. 甚至连一丝这样的担忧都不用再去烦恼了"
It doesn't even have to cross my mind." 如果有这样一处不死地带
Maybe if there were these sort of death-free zones, 一定为人满为患的
they'd get rather crowded. 或许我们应该把这个事例改变一下
So perhaps we should change the example. 不是存在这么一个不死的地带
Instead of having death-free zones, 而是存在一段不死的时间
imagine that there were death-free times. 假想一下  别管什么理由
Just suppose, for whatever reason, 没有人会在12点到1点之间死去
nobody could die between twelve and one. 你可以在那段时间逍遥自在
You could just put it out of your mind. 这会是件好事吗
Wouldn't that be nice? All right, 一点钟一到  你又要面临死神的挑战
one o'clock, you take the mantle back on. 但是每天都有这么一个固定的时段
But wouldn't it be nice to just have a certain period of time 你不必去考虑死神的降临
every day when you didn't have to even have it 难道这不是一件好事吗
be so much as a remote possibility? 再假定有一种免死的活动
Or suppose there were certain death-free activities. 或许是读哲学书之类的
Maybe reading philosophy would be something 只要你去做它就可以免死
that as long as you were doing it you couldn't die 或者是某些宗教传统
or, as perhaps some religious traditions might've taught, 只要你不停地祈祷就不会死去
as long as you were engaged in prayer you couldn't die. 这样好吗
Wouldn't that be nice? 或者  我们反过来看整个事例
Or turn the entire thing the other way around. 假定大多数的时间
Suppose that most times and 大多数的活动都是可以免死的
most activities were death free, 但是有些活动
but certain activities 却带有致死的可能性
introduce the possibility of dying. 换句话说  只要你不去
So you couldn't die 从事那些活动  你就不会死
unless you were engaged in certain activities. 你会长生不老  只要你不认为
So you would be immortal but 长生不老有违你的意愿
not in the sense of immortal against your will. 或许有这样的情况存在
There'd be certain activities perhaps, 比方说  有一支枪顶着你的脑袋
for example putting a gun to your head, that would 它会了结你的性命
put an end to your life. 即使长生不老是件坏事
So even if immortality would be bad, 也一定有办法去结束长久的生命
there would be certain things you could do that could end it. 反问自己  什么活动
Ask yourself, what sorts of activities 你会参与
would you engage in 如果你知道这些活动
if you knew that those activities 带有致死的危险性
carried with them the risk of dying? 当然  大多数时候你不会死
So most of the time you couldn't die. 有什么事情能重要到
What things would be so important to you that you'd be willing to 让你甘心冒着死去的风险去做呢
suddenly risk death for the sake of doing those things? 你喜欢艺术
You like art. 艺术会不会重要到你明知
Is art important enough to you that you'd be prepared to watch, 自己只要欣赏它就会死去
look at a masterpiece, 不看的话就没事
if you knew that while you were enjoying it you could die, 你还会不依不挠地去端详一件艺术杰作吗
but that wouldn't happen otherwise? 性爱是否重要到
Is sex great enough that you'd be prepared to 让你甘心冒死去做爱呢
run the risk of dying while you were engaged in sex? 这是一个很好的机会  可以反思一下
Again, it's a nice lens for asking yourself, 什么事情对你最有价值
what are the things that are most valuable to you? 你会问
By asking, which of them 哪些事情会重要到
are so valuable you'd be prepared to do them 即便这些事情会带你走上一条极端的路
even if they would introduce what isn't otherwise there, 即  冒着死的危险去做呢
namely, the risk of death? 现在  通过引出种种问题
Now, in the posing the question that way, 我一直假设有些事情是你
I've been assuming that these are things you'd do 会冒死去做的
despite the fact that they run the risk of death. 我假定还有个更进一步的问题要问
I suppose there's a further question we have to ask, 有没有些情况
are there things that would be 恰好是因为
worth doing precisely because of 它要冒死去做才选择去做呢
the fact that they introduced the risk of death? 我不得不承认现在抛出这么个问题
Now, I've got to admit that when I pose that question, that 听起来实在是匪夷所思
sounds rather bizarre. 至少  先将这种可能性抛在一边
At least, putting aside the possibility 即  我们在世上活了几十万年
that we've now lived our hundred thousand 已经被如此长久的生活折磨得疲惫不堪
years and have exhausted all that life's got to offer for us, 现在一定要做点什么
certainly to engage in activities now, 尽管生活依然还能给予更多
while life still has so much more to offer-- 一定要马上行动
to engage in activities now where, 恰恰是为了冒死一搏
precisely for the chance of dying, 这种想法依然十分怪异
that strikes me as bizarre. 然而  对我来说
And yet, it seems to me that 有许多行为
there are many activities, 即使不多  至少也有那么几种
and if not many at least several activities, 诱使人们为此而冒险
that people do precisely for that reason. 比方说
For example, let me tell you 我来跟你们说个比较惊人的例子
something I know that's going to shock you. 你们都知道有人从空中跳伞吧
Did you know there are people who jump out of airplanes? 无可否认  当他们跳出机舱的时候
Now, admittedly they've got this little piece of cloth 他们只靠降落伞这么点布料
that gives them a decent chance of not killing themselves 来保证他们所谓的生命安全
when they jump out of airplanes. 但是事情总有例外
But these things do fail. 我们不时会看到这样的新闻报导
Every now and then you read in the newspaper about somebody 某人因降落伞无法打开而被摔死
whose parachute failed to open and so they died. 于是我会问我自己  为什么
And I ask myself, why? 是什么驱使一个人
What could possibly drive somebody to 仅带着几块布料  除此之外别无长物
jump out of an airplane with 毅然跳下飞机
nothing but a little piece of cloth between 将生命悬于一线呢
them and death? 最可能说服我的答案
And the answer that strikes me 就是这样的一个事实
as most plausible is, it's the very fact 只有死亡本身的极大诱惑能有助于解释
that there's a significant chance of death that helps explain 为什么有人会这么做
why people do this. 我知道  如果现在有人去问这些人的动机
Now, I know if you talk to some of these people, they'll often 他会说  "不不不
say, "Oh, no, no, no. 这实在是太抬举我们了"  诸如此类
The views are so glorious," or something like that. 但我想这更是一种貌似不合情理的暗示
But I think this is rather an implausible suggestion, 因为你本就是
because, of course, you could have 怀着这样一种堂而皇之的想法登上飞机
these glorious views just by going up in the airplane 俯瞰大地的
and looking down from the safety of your airplane. 在我看来  这种战栗部分是源自
Part of the thrill has got to be--or so it seems to me-- 这样一个事实
part of the thrill has got to be the very fact 即  这些行为增加了死亡的可能性
that they now have an increased risk of death. 死亡的可能性是促使他们
The chance of dying is part of what drives somebody to 跳下的重要原因
jump out of an airplane. 如果这种解释是对的
Well, if that's right, 那我们是否就能死亡的广泛性
then should we say that the pervasiveness of death, 死亡的普遍性
ubiquitousness of death-- 以及我之前提到的那些沉重的东西
the thing that I was earlier suggesting was oppressive-- 即  存在免死时段
wouldn't it really be nice 或者不死地带
to have a death-free time or a death-free 是一件幸事
location or death-free activities? 或许我这样表述是错的
Maybe I was wrong in suggesting that. 如果死亡的偶然性会加些趣味的话
If the chance of death would add a kind of zest, 那么也许死亡的普遍性就是一件好事
then perhaps the ubiquity of death is actually a good thing 而非坏事
rather than a bad thing. 我倾向于认为  至少在我举的这些事例中
Well, I'm inclined to think, at least in my own case, that 这种结论并不正确
that's not right. 或许可以这样解释
And perhaps the explanation 死亡的普遍性
has got to be the ubiquity of death is 就像背景音乐  余音袅袅
this kind of background, constant hum. 这使得我们要冒死一搏显得不是
And the fact that we're always facing some risk of death 那么重要  我们大多数人对
recedes into the background in the way that most of us don't hear 跳出机舱时的这种"背景音乐"充耳不闻
background noise--that what jumping out of an airplane 也就是被摔死的危险
does for you is it spikes the risk of death. 冒死的行为并不是真正的好
So, it's not really good enough to just have some risk of death-- 它较平时有着更大的危险  如果冒死正确
it's got to be greater risk than usual. If that's right, 如果存有那种心理
if that's the psychology, 甚至对那些寻求死亡刺激的人
then even for those death thrill seekers, 死亡的普遍性
the ubiquity of death 将不再是一件幸事
won't necessarily be a good thing because of 因为它被常态化了  它变得黯然无光了
it being constant. It just recedes into the background. 好了
All right. So again, 我再请大家进行思考一下
what I've been asking us to think about are various aspects 究竟哪些方面能够加剧死亡之害
of death that might contribute to either increase or 哪些方面可以相对化减死亡之害
perhaps in certain ways reduce somewhat the badness of death. 我先花几分钟说点其他
There's one more aspect that I want to take a couple of minutes 值得我们思考的问题
and have us think about, and that's this. 在近期讨论之前
Previously to this most recent discussion, 我们曾谈到生命的价值
I talked about the value of life. 介绍过某些探讨生命意义的对立学说
Some rival theories about what makes life worth living. 上节课我们又介绍了
And for the last lecture or so I've been talking about, 剥夺说
in addition to the deprivation account, 以及影响死亡之害的其他因素
the additional things that contribute to the badness of death. 你也许会想
So you might think, well, 能否从人的整个境况去思考呢
what about the human condition as a whole? 不去将目光局限于生
What about the fact that it's not just that we live, 也并非单单拘泥于死
or for that matter it's not just that we die. 事实上  人都要经历由生到死的全过程
What's true about humans is that we live and then we die. 那才是是所谓的人类境况  由生至死
That's the human condition--life followed by death. 你也许会问
You might ask, 这两者结合起来究竟有何意义
what's the value of that entire combination? 我们最先会想到
Now, the most natural thing to suggest would be, 答案就藏在
well, you get clear on 最具信服力的生命价值理论中
your favorite theory about the value of life, whatever that is. 你能从中找到我们之前
You get clear about the kinds of questions we've just been asking 关于死亡之害的所有问题的答案
about the badness of death, whatever that is. 评判人类境况的总标准是什么
What's the overall assessment of the human condition? 你也许会说
You might think, well, 直接把生命之善叠加起来
that's just a matter of adding up the goodness of 再抵减掉死亡之害
life and subtracting the badness of death and 然后汇总其结果即可
summing whatever it comes to. 我猜想  乐观主义者会说
I suppose, again, the optimist says, "诚然  死亡很糟糕
"Yeah, death is bad, 但生命却是美好的
but life is good, 其美好足以抵消死亡的丑恶
sufficiently good to outweigh the badness of the fact that we're going to die. 总之  能来到这世上便是件好事"
On balance, it's a good thing to be born." 而悲观主义者便会反驳道
And pessimists might be those who say, "不  不是这样  从整体上看
"No, no. On balance, 生命的消极成分居多"
the negative of death outweighs the positive-ness of life." 我无意深究双方孰对孰错
But I want to pause for a moment 我只关注正反两方在探讨生死意义时
and note that this assumption that the way to think about the value of the combination as just 采用善恶抵减法时所基于的前提假设
a matter of adding the goodness of life and the badness of death and just 善恶可以简单相抵  也许并不成立
summing them that way,that may not be right. 因为有时结合体的价值
Because sometimes the value of a combination 并不等同于
is different than the value you would get 各组成部分的价值
by just thinking about each one of the parts in isolation 累加的结果
and then adding them up. 机械叠加法对于整体价值的评估
A kind of addition approach to values of wholes 往往并不适用
may not always be correct. 我想通过一个简单的例子来阐述这点
Here's a nice simple example to make that point. 我最喜欢的两种食物
My two favorite foods in the world are probably 就是披萨和巧克力
pizza on the one hand and chocolate on the other. 我曾在课堂上说过我喜欢巧克力
I know I've shared my love of chocolate with you before. 但好像还没提过我也爱吃披萨
I don't recall having shared my love of pizza with you before, 但这两种食物的确是我的最爱
but there it is--two favorite things I love-- 我爱披萨  因为它美味
love pizza, delicious, 我爱巧克力  因为它可口
love chocolate, delicious. 现在我们把它们
Take these two delicious things and 混在一起  做一个巧克力披萨
combine them into a chocolate covered pizza. 老天  这主意听上去真恶心
Oh my God! The whole idea just sounds disgusting. 但我们真就这么做了
And it is, 假设我正托着它  比较恶心
I take it, disgusting. 倘若分别思考披萨和巧克力
But you wouldn't notice the disgustingness 各自的价值
if you just thought about the value of pizza in isolation 你是不会联想到"恶心"这一词
and the value of chocolate in isolation. 所以说巧克力披萨的价值并不是
The value of chocolate-covered pizza is not just a matter of 由其成分的自身价值单纯叠加而来
summing up the value of the parts taken in isolation. 你也许会联想到
You've got to think about 所谓的"交互作用"
what we might dub "The interaction effects." 我们不禁要问  人类的境况
So let's ask ourselves, are there any interaction effects 是否也存在交互作用呢
when we talk about the human condition that it's life followed by death?" 我们曾专门思考过生命的价值
We've thought about the value of life in isolation; 实际上  我们也曾
we've been, in effect, 专门探寻过死亡的价值
thinking about the value of death in isolation. 在由生到死整个过程中
Does the fact that death follows life-- 这两者之间是否存在某种交互作用
does that produce any interaction effects between the two, 需要我们
which need to be added 把它加入到等式里呢
into our formula--added into the mix as well? 乍看上去  似乎存在两种可能
Well, there's obviously, I suppose, two possibilities. 而实际上  有三种
Well, really three. 情形一  交互作用不产生任何实质影响
Possibility number one is, no it doesn't make any difference-- 对于这点我们无需赘述
uninteresting possibility. 剩下那两种才是我们关注的焦点
More interestingly--two remaining possibilities. 生与死的结合的确可能
Yeah, there are actually some ways in which the combination 以悲剧收场
ends up becoming worse. 这种情形下  交互作用产生的负面效应
The interaction effects make things even worse, 不容我们小觑
and we can't overlook those negative interaction effects. 与此相反  也许我们最终会迎来
Also, the possibility that there might be some positive 圆满的结局
interaction effects. 我们先来简单谈谈
Let me start briefly by mentioning a possibility 这种乐观的情形
for a positive interaction effect. 由于人固有一死
Because of the fact that you're going to die, 这点显而易见
obviously enough, it's not 人类无法掌控生命的长短
just that you'll get whatever life you get, 只能拥有有限的生命
but there's a finite amount of life that you're going to get. 生命由此变成一种稀缺资源
Life is a scarce resource. 异常宝贵
It's precious. 于是我们便容易推知
And we might be attracted to the thought 生命的价值与其稀缺性成正比
that the value of life is increased by its very preciousness. 当我们觉得某物
There's a kind of aspect of value 短暂易逝  脆弱易损  或是稀少罕见
for many of us where we feel that something's especially valuable 我们便认为其具有一定价值
if it won't endure, if it's fragile, or if it's rare. 稀缺性提升了它的价值
This can enhance the value of something. 所以我们可以说
And so, arguably, 生命短暂  生命珍贵
the fact that life is precious, that it won't endure, 生命的价值斐然
could actually increase its value for us. 科幻小说家奥森·斯科特·卡德
There's a short story by the science fiction writer 曾写过这样一个短篇故事
Orson Scott Card, 大意是说
where the basic point of the story is that 假定宇宙的所有生命形式中
of all the life forms in the universe, 只有我们地球居民会死亡
we, here on Earth, are the only ones that are mortal. 而这一点使我们
And because of this we are the envy 为宇宙其余万物所妒
of the rest of the universe. 对它们而言  不朽
It's not so much that immortality, what the rest of them have, 简直稀松平常到惹其生厌的程度
is unattractive or boring. 长生不老固然很好
It's perfectly fine, 但它们却艳羡我们有限的生命
but they envy us for our finite lifespans, 因为我们拥有
because what we've got 它们无法拥有的短暂人生
and they don't have is something 它们眼里弥足珍贵的短暂人生
that's for each individual rare-- 无法持久的事物
something that's not lasting, 在它们看来反倒成了珍品
something that's precious in that way. 好了  这是一种可能
All right, it's a possibility. 也许注定的死亡
So, it's possible that the very fact that we're going to die 与生命发生交互作用
causes an interaction effect with our life 其结果反倒成为我们的优势
so there's an upside to it. 我们的生命脆弱不堪
It makes our life fragile, 愈是昙花一现便愈发珍贵
ephemeral, and as a result of that, more precious. 但也可能
But it's also possible-- 存在与上面的情形相调和的
actually compatible with accepting that fact--there are 另两种可能
two additional possibilities, 也许交互作用会带来负面效应
that there might be some negative interaction effects. 在对生与死结合本质的探究中
It could be that in thinking about the nature of the combination 我们可能发现
we're led to see that in certain ways the combination-- 这种作用是消极的  有害而无益的
the interaction effects--are negative, are bad ones. 由此衍生出两种可能
Well, here are two possibilities for that thought. 可能情形一  我称之为
First possibility I think of under the heading "玩笑体验"
"A Taste is Just a Tease." 在有限的时间内
It's as though we live life for a while, 我们体验生命中的各种愉悦  但随后
getting a feel for all the wonderful things life could offer us, and then 它又从我们手中夺走一切
a moment later, as it were, it's snatched away from us. 有点雪上加霜的意味
It's sort of adding insult to injury 初尝甜头旋即一切消失殆尽
that we're offered just a whiff. 好比有人在饿汉面前放上一道佳肴
It's as though somebody brought in this delicious meal 正中饿汉下怀
to a hungry--before a hungry person-- 允许他们观赏
allowed them to see what it looked like, 允许他们嗅闻
allowed them to smell the delicious aromas, 或许也允许他们品尝一小口
perhaps gave them just one little tiny forkful to see just how 以便他们能全方位体验美食
beautifully delicious the food was. 但随后  一切都被撤走了
And then they snatched the whole thing away. 可以想象  有人嘟囔
You can imagine somebody who says, "既然不让我们吃
"Look, it would be better never to have had the taste at all 与其这样浅尝辄止
than to have the taste 还不如一口不尝呢"
and then not be allowed to have the entire meal." 如果你仅专注于品味的本质
That's something that you might not notice if you just focus on 也许会忽略一点
the intrinsic nature of the taste. After all, 品味的本质始终是正面积极的
the intrinsic nature of the taste was positive. 相反  倘若你只把目光定格在
Or, if you just focused on the intrinsic character 没能享用美食上
of the not-having the meal. 吃不了  不过是缺失某种体验而已
After all, not having the meal is just an absence of a certain experience. 想要比较这两点谁更恶劣
To capture what's excruciatingly undesirable about the two, 你必须将它们联系起来
you need to think about the two in combination. 这就是交互作用
It's an interaction effect. 我们也许认为
And we might think, look, 体验便是生命消逝前
this is one of the negative things about 对人类境况的
the human condition that we get a taste of life-- 一种否定
nothing more--before it's snatched away. 这是可能情形之一
That's one possibility. 关于消极的交互作用
The second possible thought that comes to mind 我能想到的另一种情形是
for me, in thinking about the negative interaction effects, 我给它取名叫做
I call under the title--I think about under the title-- "贵族落寞"
"How the Noble Have Fallen." 先来说些神奇的事情
Right now, there's something amazing about us. 我们是人类
We are people. 不论宇宙中存在着怎样的生命形式
In the universe we--who knows what is out there 但至少
in the universe but at least on Earth 我们是地球上唯一的人类
we may well be the only people there are. 谁了解这一真相呢
Now, who knows? 也许海豚  或是猿猴知道
Maybe dolphins or certain--some of the great apes. 不管怎样  这是个适者生存的地方
But at any rate, it's a rather select club. 在本学期开始时
We are, as I said, early 我便说过  我是个物理主义者
in the semester when I said I'm a physicalist, 所以我相信人类有如机器
I believe that people are just machines, 但又并非等同于
but we're not just 那些古老陈旧的机器
any old machine. 我们是神奇的机器
We're amazing machines. 我们能够相爱  能够作诗
We're able to love. We're able to write poetry. 能够思索宇宙最遥远的距离
We're able to think about the farthest reaches of the universe 能够了解我们身处宇宙何处
and ask what our place is in the universe. 人类真是不可思议
People are amazing. 我们的肉体终将腐烂  变成死尸
And we end up rotting. We end up corpses. 但对我们大多数人来说
There's something-- 尽管我们人类
for many of us, there's something horrifying about the thought 有着惊人之处
that something as amazing as us, 坐拥尊贵显赫的地位
as exalted and valuable as us, 但终究
could end up something as 将幻化为腐朽的尸骸
lowly and unimportant as a piece of rotting flesh. 请再想想
Again, think about it. 我们脑海中浮现一个画面
The image here that comes 某位落寞的国王
to mind for me is one of these deposed kings 站在餐桌一旁
who ends up waiting on tables 当侍应  以此在纽约谋生
to make a living in New York. 你也许会说  "这没什么
And it's--you might think, "All right. 当侍应又不是这世上最悲惨的事情"
The life of a waiter is not the worst thing in the world." 但注意  此处又有些雪上加霜的味道
But there's extra, again, insult to injury, 此人仍然保留着
when the person's got to remember that 过去那段掌控一切唯我独尊的美好记忆
he used to be something extraordinary, a ruler. 我请你们
Again, if you just thought about life as a ruler, 将当事人先前的那段记忆隔离开来考虑
well pretty good thinking about it in isolation. 诚然  单就侍应生活而言
Life as a waiter, not so bad 那人的遭遇并不悲惨
thinking about it in isolation. 但倘若需要深究问题的本质
To see the nature of the 你就不得不将前前后后联系起来
problem you've got to think about the fact that it's a combination package. 国王落魄为侍应
There is something especially insulting 这的确比较悲惨
about having gone from king to waiter. 权柄轰然倒塌  形势由盛及衰
How the mighty have fallen. 而那将是我们所有人都无法摆脱的宿命
And that fate is waiting for all of us. 人类境况的优越
It's a fact about the human condition that the amazing 荡然无存
things we are don't stay amazing. 我们变成一群尸骨  消失殆尽
We turn into pieces of rotting flesh, decaying. 综上所述  可能存在的两个消极结果
So two possible negative effects-- 玩笑体验
the taste is just a tease, 以及贵族落寞
the how the noble have fallen--on the one hand. 而积极的结局便是  生命变得格外珍贵
One possible positive effect, the extra preciousness of life. 总的说来  我并不确定
I'm not quite sure where, on balance, we should say 这三种可能到底孰对孰错
how these things play out. 假设我们拥有各自不同的观点
Again, I suppose we could have different views. 一方面
On the one hand, 乐观主义者坚持
the optimists might say, "即便我们把交互作用列入考虑范畴
"Even when we throw in the extra interaction effects, 即便存在消极的交互作用
even the negative interaction effects, 但人类境况的整体本质
the overall nature of the human condition 仍是积极的
is positive. 所以尽管我们终究会死
So that it's a good thing to be born, 但能来这世上走一遭也是好的"
even though your life is going to be followed by death." 另一方面  悲观主义者
And against that, we could have the pessimists 表示  "一旦我们遁入
who say, "The negative side, 消极的交互作用
especially once we throw in the negative interaction effects, 苦痛即朝我们袭来
the negative side is so great 与其这样还不如没活过呢"
that it would be better never to have been born at all." 这就是悲观主义者的观点
That's the pessimist view. 死亡的必然性
Given that we're going to die, this fact seeps back in 荼毒了生命的本质
and poisons the nature of life 甚至荼毒了生命的全部
or perhaps poisons the nature of the whole, 即由生到死的全过程
life followed by death, 由是得到否定全盘的结论
so that on balance the whole thing's negative. 在悲观主义者眼中  不曾拥有生命
Better to have not had any of it, 抑或根本从未出生
better to have not been born at all, say the pessimists, 都比经历生死
than to have this combination package of life 更加明智
followed by death. 我个人绝对奉行乐观主义
Now, for myself, I'm sufficiently optimistic 所以我还是倾向于认为
that I'm inclined to think 生命很精彩
life's wonderful. 我们刚刚谈到的消极交互作用
The negative combination effects 的确存在
that I was talking about are certainly there, 但总体而言  我认为
but on balance I think the 人类境况还是很明朗的
human condition for must of us is a good one. 尽管死亡的结局早已注定
It's better to have been born 但能降临这世上
than never to--even though that's followed by death-- 比未曾来过要好
than never to have been born at all. 但我也要强调一点
But I do want to emphasize 即便我们接受
the point that even if we were to accept the 悲观主义者的观点
pessimist's conclusion that 我们不该来到这个世界
it would be better never to have been born at all, 也并不意味着
it doesn't follow, 至少我们没有深究的必要
at least doesn't follow without further argument, 如果我们赞同悲观主义的观点
that the right response to the realization-- if it is the correct realization 认为我们本不该来到世上
that it would be better never to have been born at all 也不表示我们因此要选择自杀
doesn't follow that the right response is to commit suicide. 听上去无懈可击  对吗
It's a tempting thought right? 从哲学的角度看
To go philosophically from 人类境况导致生命如此糟糕
life's so bad given the nature of the human condition, 我们最终必将死亡  与其浅尝辄止
life followed by death, that better to never have had any of it 还不如从未体验
than to have just had a taste and a tease and so forth. 于是我们想当然地认为
But it's a tempting philosophical thought to say, "因为不出生还好些
"Once I've shown it's better never to have been born, 所以我理应选择自杀"
it follows that suicide is the appropriate response." 但其实这点在逻辑上根本说不通
But in fact, as a matter of logic, that doesn't follow at all. 因为你想想
Because if you think about it, 自杀并未能改变
suicide doesn't change 人类境况的本质
the fundamental nature of the human condition, 我们依然注定要死去
life followed by death. 并不是说如果你把自己结果了
It's not as though if you kill yourself 你就没有来过这世界了
you somehow bring it about that you've never been born at all. 问题其实还是集中于浅尝
It's still the case that if there's something horrible about 到底有利有弊
having just a taste-- 其实  如果你选择自杀
Well, indeed, if you commit suicide 你只不过是缩短了品尝的时间而言
you've made it an even shorter taste. 如果说最终的死亡结局
If there's something sort of degrading or unnoble about 带来某些羞耻或不洁的感觉
being a person who is going to become a corpse, 自杀其实并不能解决问题的本质
committing suicide doesn't alter that fundamental fact either. 它只不过将侮辱提前了
It just makes the insult come sooner. 所以说  即便我们支持
So, even if we were to agree 悲观主义者的观点  认为
with the pessimists that it would be better 我们不曾出生其实更好
never to have been born at all, 如同一个古老的玩笑所说
as the old joke goes, 如此幸运的家伙还真是百里挑一啊  对吧
show me one person in a thousand who's so lucky, right? 但我们都已在这世上了  所以
We have all been born. And from the fact, 即便我们赞同
even if we were to agree with it, that it would've been better 人本不该出生
if we hadn't been 从而不再为未出生的拉里感到遗憾
born--instead of feeling sorry for unborn Larry, 甚至嫉妒拉里
perhaps we should envy unborn Larry; 如果循着悲观主义者的思路
that's what the pessimists say-- 即使以上都成立
even if that were true, 也无法证明自杀的合理性
it wouldn't follow that suicide was an appropriate response. 证明自杀合理
It doesn't mean of course that suicide isn't ever 显然也不是其初衷
an appropriate response. 在本学期期末
We're coming on toward the end of the semester, 我们探讨的最后一个主题
and the last topic we'll be 将是自杀
talking about is indeed the topic of suicide. 是否在某种情形中
When, if ever, is suicide 自杀符合理智道德双重标准
an appropriate, rational or moral response to one's situation? 我们到时候再展开讨论
Let's hold off on thinking about that question a bit further. 你也许会说  在这之前
Before we get to suicide, you might say, 数周时间中
the question that's going to entertain us for the 我们的话题仅仅局限于
remaining few weeks is this. 面临死亡  我们应该如何生存
How should one live, in light of the facts 正如你们学期计划表上显示的那样
about death that I've been laying out in the semester up to this point? 面临死亡  我们该如何生存
How should we live, in light of the facts about death? 有人会说
And one possible response, the last one we'll look at, is, 最起码  你不能自杀
what you should do, at least sometimes, is kill yourself. 这点我们待会儿再谈
We'll come to that. 接下来几周  我们
We're going to spend the next couple of weeks 会从各个方面思考
asking ourselves different aspects of the question, 如何应对死亡
what should our response be to the fact of our death and the 了解死亡的特性  以及
specific features of death and the nature of death that 死亡的本质
we've been exploring? 但我想我们还是先来考虑一下
But the very first question i suppose we really need to ask is this. 我们是否应该思考这些问题
Should we be thinking about all this at all? 也许你们觉得这问题提得太晚了  对吗
Well, I realize that for you guys it's too late, right? 对于那些花费整学期的时间
It's sort of late in the day for students who have been through the better part of a semester 论证死亡本质的学生来说的确为时已晚
thinking about the nature of death to argue, maybe, 但对将这课作为基础入门的你们而言
it wasn't such a good idea for you 也许为时尚早
to take this class in the first place. 但我们可以站在理论层面
But as theorists, 以理论家的身份
we could be interested in 思考就理论上而言
the theoretical possibility that the right response 关于回避死亡的反应有哪些
is to not think about the facts of death at all. 大体上
Look, in principle 有三种不同的反应
in principle I suppose there are three different reactions. 我会把它们一一列举出来
So, I make various claims of the sort that I've been making about, "我们只不过是实体而已
"Well look, you know, we're just physical objects. 当实体瓦解  我们便不复存在
When these objects break, we cease to exist. 而这些实体也无法再重新组合"
The objects don't get put back together," 等等
and so forth and so on. 这是第一种与我观点相悖的反应
One possibility, of course, is simply to disagree with me about the facts. 当然
And so you--of course, 如果你不认为自己的立场错误
if you do disagree I think you're mistaken, 我就默认你们持否定态度
so I'll think of you as denying the facts, 但不管怎样
but all right, 这的确是一种可能的情形
that's a possibility. 另一种情形  我待会再展开
Another possibility, the one I'll turn to a little bit later, 则是赞同我的看法并继续活下去
is admit the facts and live accordingly. 当然  我们至今还未问自己
Of course, we haven't yet asked ourselves, how should you live 如果赞成并接纳这些观点
if you recognize and take into 又该怎样生活
account those facts? 我们待会再讨论
That's the question we'll turn to. 而介于这两种之间还存在一种情形
But there's the middle possibility, 既不赞成也不反对
which is not so much think about them and deny them, 不去深入思考  只是一味地接受并施行
not so much think about them, accept them and act accordingly, 但不去思考个中玄妙
but simply don't think about them. 也许面对死亡的最佳方式
Maybe the best response to the facts 便是不去想它
of death is just put it out of your mind. 完全把它抛到九霄云外
Don't give it any thought at all. 于是你也许会想
Now, on the one hand you might think, 那根本不是什么正确的方式
that can't possibly be the right response, 更谈不上合理不合理
the appropriate response. 毕竟  你怎么可能
After all, how can it be appropriate 不去想它  无视其存在呢
to disregard, to put out of your mind, facts? 听上去似乎不无道理
Well, that all sounds very nice, 但我认为这种想法其实是错误的
but I think that claim has got to just be mistaken. 忽视某些往昔所了解的事实
There's nothing unacceptable or inappropriate or misguided about 其实并不怎么难以接受
not thinking about all sorts of facts that you might have learned 或不合时宜
at some point or the other. 下面我来举个我最喜欢的例子
Here's my favorite example of 我小时候被强制要求
stupid facts I was forced to learn when I was younger-- 记熟各州首府
state capitals, right? 儿时的记忆已经很遥远了
I've gotten pretty far in my life, 印象中我似乎从未
and as far as I can tell I've never, ever, ever had to 记全50个州的首府
remember the capitals of the 50 states. 所以我就一直回避它
So, I just don't think about it. 只是每次我给学生上这门课的时候
Pretty much I think about it only once a year, 就会回想一次
when I'm giving this very lecture. 我问自己  还记得多少个州首府
I start asking, how many state capitals can I remember? 答案是  真记不全了
And the answer is, really not all that many of them. 不去回想我曾一度了解的事实
Not thinking about those facts that I knew at one point-- 并无大碍
just not all that objectionable. 所以  仅关乎事实
So, the mere fact, 如果这也算得上是事实的话
if it is a fact, 假设关于生死的事实
suppose the facts about 同我所描述的一致
life and death are as I've described them. 在我们做进一步的了解之前
Until we say something more, 我们并不确定是否应该
it's not clear that we shouldn't just, 记录  珍藏  然后忘却
all right, note it, store it away, and forget about it, 如同我刚才所举州首府的例子那样
just like the facts about the state capitals. 这种说法看上去很奇怪  容易产生误导
That seems odd; that seems misguided. 那是为什么呢
But why? 为什么我们一旦将有关生死的事实
What is it about the facts about life and death that 放在一边  进而置若罔闻
seem to make it misguided to think we should just put them aside 就容易误入歧途呢
and pay no attention to them? 也许是因为我们被引导到这个想法上
Presumably because we're led to the thought, 我们为死亡的本质所吸引
we're attracted to the thought, that the nature of death, 为死亡的事实所吸引
the facts about death--whatever they are-- 进而在生活中发生微妙的变化
should have an impact on how we live. 适当的生存方式由是勾勒出来
The appropriate way to live gets shaped, 至少部分已然成形
at least in part, 而这皆因死亡所致
by the fact that we're going to die, 因我们无法永生所致
that we won't be around forever. 如果真是如此  那么反对接受死亡事实
If that's right, then it seems as though there'd be 似乎又显得不够理智
something irrational and inappropriate 不大合适
about simply disregarding those facts. 在我介绍另几个故事之前
Let me tell you two stories that might-- 还是先讲这两个故事吧
well, look, before I tell you the stories here's the other side. 有人说  "是啊
Suppose somebody said, "Yeah, it's true 如果我思考死亡的本质
if I thought about the nature of death, 思考我将于50  80或是90年后
the fact that the 50, 80, 90 years I've got on this Earth 就要离开人世  如果我总想着这事儿
is all I'm going to have. If I thought about that fact, 迟早会崩溃的
it would just be overwhelming. 话题太沉重
It would be crushing. 以至于我无法继续生活下去了"
I'd be unable to go on with my life." 人们时常会道出这种感慨
People sometimes claim that that's the case and, 正因为此
because of that, 回避亦为上策
the right thing to do is to not think about it. 想必你们之前就已读过
You've read at this point, long since, 托尔斯泰的《伊万里奇之死》
Tolstoy's Death of Ivan Ilych. 托尔斯泰故事里的人们好像都把
The people in the Tolstoy story seem to have put facts 死亡抛到脑后了
of mortality out of their mind. 为什么呢  也许是因为他们
Why? Presumably because they 觉得直面现实过于沉重
think that facing it is just too crushing and overwhelming. 所以他们选择一种温和的方式来对待死亡
So the way they cope with it--they think 即  对死亡
the appropriate response is put it aside, 置之不理
disregard the facts about death. 在我看来  这种应对似乎
Well, as I say, there seems to be something amiss 有些不妥
about that reaction. 那也正是托尔斯泰想要告诉我们的
That was certainly the point that Tolstoy was trying to get us to see. 无论应对死亡的正确策略究竟为何
There's something 无法正视生命的尽头
wrong about lives, something inauthentic about lives 生命终将
that are lived without facing the facts of our mortality and living accordingly, 显得飘渺虚无
whatever the appropriate responses might be. 再来讲两个与死亡无关
Here are two stories not having to do with death per se 但可以帮助我们体察到
that may help us get a feel for the oddity 摈弃死亡的异样
of trying to disregard these facts. 假设你有一个重要约会
Suppose that you're on a hot date, 或是即将赴约  约会对象是佩姬·苏
or about to go out on a hot date, with Peggy Sue 或谁谁谁  比如比利·鲍勃
or, depending on your preferences, Billy Bob. 室友手里拿着一个信封
And your roommate holds up an envelope 告诉你说
and says, "里面有关于佩姬·苏
"Written in this envelope are certain facts 或是比利·鲍勃的一些真相
about peggy Sue or Billy Bob. 我就不亲口告诉你了
I'm not going to tell you what these facts are yet. 一切都在信里
They're in the envelope. 我只负责把它交给你
But I'll give you the 由你自行拆开
envelope and you can open it up and read them. 但我一定要提醒你
But I do want to tell you this one thing. 一旦你拆开信封
It is indeed the case that if you were to read these facts, 一旦你了解事情的真相
if you were to think about these facts, 一旦你读完信的内容
if you were to know the things written down in the envelope, 你就绝不会再萌生
you would not want 约会佩姬·苏的念头了"
to go out with peggy Sue." 然后你喃喃自语  容我想想
And you say to yourself, well, let's see. 我现在正想跟佩姬·苏约会
Right now i want to go out with Peggy Sue, 但是  倘若我了解真相
but if I knew these true-- 并非像你们想象的那样
It's not that you think, 你室友欺骗了你
oh your roommate has made it up, 一切都是谎言  一切都是诽谤
that these are lies; these are slander. 你确实相信
You really believe, and it 且信上的内容
is in fact the case that the things written down 都是事实
in the envelope are true. 所以你明白
And so you know 只要你读了信
that if only you were to read these things in the envelope, 你就会改变主意
you would change your mind 不愿再约她出去
and no longer want to go out with her. 所以你会说  "把信拿走"
And so what you say is, "Don't show me the envelope." 看上去太诡异了  似乎有些不合情理
That seems odd. It doesn't seem like it makes sense. 倘若有些事物果真能改变你的心意
If there are things that would change your mind 而你也知道自己的言行会受其左右
and you know that they would change your mind about your behavior, 忽视它们根本算不上是非理性的处理方式
how can it be rational to disregard them? 还有一个例子
Here's another story. 你想喝杯奶昔
You're about to drink a milkshake, 室友匆忙走进来说
and your roommate comes rushing in and says, "我这里有份实验报告
"I've got the lab report. 我之前对这份奶昔忧心忡忡
I had my suspicions about the milkshake, 所以我暗地提取样品并已送往实验室检查
and so I took a sample and I rushed it down to the lab. 现在实验结果出来了"
I've got the lab report." 你当时正要一饮而尽  对吧
You're about to drink it, right, 天气酷热
because you're thirsty, 你饥渴难耐  十分喜爱奶昔饮品
it's a hot day, you love milkshakes. 而你室友却说
And your roommate says, "这信封里装有这杯奶昔的检查报告
"Inside the envelope are facts about this milkshake that 我敢向你保证
if--I promise you it is indeed the case-- 你了解实情后
if you knew these facts, 绝对再也不想碰这杯奶昔了"
you would not drink the milkshake anymore." 而你会说
And you say, "感谢上帝  还是别打开信封好了"
"Oh, thank God. Don't open the envelope," 然后你便喝下奶昔  无视真相
and you drink the milkshake, disregarding the facts. 听上去似乎挺荒诞
That seems inappropriate. 如果唯有正视死亡
Well, if it really was true then 我们才能
that if only we faced the facts about our mortality 更加自如地生活
that we would live life rather differently, 完全忽略真相又怎能说是合乎合理呢
how could it be reasonable for us to disregard those facts? 这的确是个难题
Well, that's the puzzle. 也许我们本不该称之为难题
Or maybe we shouldn't call it a puzzle at all. 也许答案正表明
Maybe the answer is, 回避并不见得有多高明
that just shows the disregard option is not really all that reputable. 我们要么全盘否定
What we either have to do is deny the claims I'm made 关于死亡本质的主张  要么问自己
about the nature of death, or else go on to ask-- 假设那些主张成立  我们又该如何生存
supposing they are true--how should we live in light of them? 也许回避
Maybe the disregard option just is one that 仅仅只是我们
we can't actually take on as an intellectually 预备方案中不够成熟的一项
acceptable alternative. 但我觉着这么说也许过于仓促
But I suspect that that's probably a little bit too quick, 因为其实死亡可以通过两种方式
because really there are two different ways in which 来影响我们的行为
facts could influence our behavior. 如果我们不注意的话
And if we're not careful 我们也许会漠视其中的差异
we'll disregard this distinction, even though 这个差异在我看来极其重要
I think it's an important one. 下面介绍这两种方式
Here's the two ways. 方式一
On the one hand, it could be that 如果你了解真相
certain facts, if you knew them, would cause you 你可能会
to behave differently 毫无缘由地
without actually giving you any reason 作出异常的表现
to behave differently. 这是一种情形
That's possibility number one. 方式二  死亡凭借一个合理的理由
Possibility number two is the facts change your behavior 重塑你的行为
by giving you a reason to behave differently. 先来举个方式一的例子
Let me show you an example of the first possibility, 因为在我们假定忽视真相
because that's the one I think we may be overlooking 并不明智时可能很容易漏掉它
when we assume that disregarding can't ever make any sense. 假设你
So, there you are kissing, 正跟佩姬·苏
making out with Peggy Sue 或是比利·鲍勃接吻  随便是谁
or Billy Bob-- whoever it is--and your 你室友突然又蹦出来说  "我这里
roommate bursts in and says, "I have in the 有个信封  如果你看看的话
envelope certain facts such that if you were to think about them 你就再也不想跟佩姬·苏
you would no longer 或是比利·鲍勃继续吻下去了"
want to kiss Peggy Sue, Billy Bob." 容我先来透露信里的内容
Let me just tell you what the facts in the envelope are. 主要是些关于佩姬·苏
They're certain facts about the nature of Peggy Sue's 消化系统的真相
digestive system. 好了  你们用完晚餐开始亲热
Now, well, you're making out after having had dinner, 正打得火热
and while you're sitting there making out, 食物从佩姬·苏的消化道滑下
food is making its way down Peggy Sue's digestive tract, 转瞬变成粪便
being turned into shit. 最终排出体外
And eventually it's going to be excreted. 假使你在脑海中浮想
And if you started picturing to yourself 佩姬·苏消化道内废物的画面
the feces inside Peggy Sue's digestive tract, 并且她最后竟然
and the fact that she's eventually going to be wiping 果断就地解决
the feces off of her behind, 你也许很难
you might find it difficult to 跟她继续亲热
continue to engage in making out with Peggy Sue. 眼前并非如此
It's not so, 但那只是些事实  对吗
now these are just facts, right? 我并未胡编乱造
I didn't make any of these up, 但在我讲述的过程中
but there you are, as I'm talking about them, you're just being 你们的确屡屡作呕
grossed out as I describe them. 好了  消化系统
Now, do any of these facts about the digestive system 是否使得接吻行为不合情理
make it inappropriate to kiss another human being? 当然没有
Well, of course not. 但随之引起的联想还是阻碍了接吻
But for all that, thinking about those facts make it rather difficult, 脑海里浮现那些画面
while you're thinking about the facts, 遏制了你亲吻对方的冲动
to continue enjoying kissing the person. 所以我们可以说关于消化道的联想
So there are certain facts about the digestive tract 阻止了你行动的步伐
such that if you think about them you can't do something, 你不再想要亲吻对方
kiss the person. 尽管如此  并非是因为你获得任何
But for all that, it's not because you've got any good reason 不去亲吻对方的正当理由
not to kiss the person. 并非是人类的消化过程
It's not that the facts about the human digestive 致使你不去吻她
process give you reason not to kiss her. 它们只是毫无缘由地
They cause you to change you behavior 改变了你的行为
without giving you any reason to change your behavior. 所以  当室友兴冲冲跑进来
So, when the roommate comes running in, 手上拿着信封  然后说
holding the envelope, and says, "这个信封里藏有一些事实
"I have in this envelope certain facts 读完它们之后  只要你回想起它们
such that if you read these facts, and thought about these facts, 便不会再想要亲吻某某"
you would stop kissing this person," 你需要向你室友提出的问题是
the question you should put to your roommate is, "究竟是这些事实直接
"Are these facts that would merely cause me 阻止我的行为
to change what I'm doing, 还是因为它们赋予我
or are these facts things 停下来的合理理由"
that would give me some good reason to change?" 如果那些事实仅关乎
If these are facts about 佩姬·苏多么喜欢接吻之后
how Peggy Sue likes to kiss and tell, or then 大肆向周围宣扬
goes around and talks about 谁是接吻高手  谁的技术很烂
who's a good kisser and who's a bad kisser, 也许那会给予你一个停下来的理由
maybe that gives you a reason to not continue what you're doing. 因此  事实可能
So the facts could be things 提供你做出改变的原因
that would give you reason to change your behavior. 但纯粹的事实
But the mere fact that they 则不会在改变你行为时
would change your behavior doesn't yet tell you 表明它们到底是否事出有因
whether they're reason-generating facts. 如果它们仅仅是缘由而非理由
If they're mere causes and not reasons, 那我们大可无视它们
then maybe it's perfectly okay to disregard them. 如果你室友走进来
If your roommate comes in 想要跟你谈谈人类消化系统的事情
and starts trying to tell you facts about the human digestive system, 你可以说  "我们改日再谈"
you say, "Not now." 回避有时也是一种明智的选择
Disregarding is sometimes the appropriate thing to do. 好了  那么我们对于死亡
Well, what about the facts about death? 采取漠视的态度
Are the facts about death 究竟是否合适呢
things that it's appropriate to disregard? 也许有人呼喊道  "当然合适"
A bold claim would say, "Yes." 他会说
A bold claim would say, "我一想到死亡
"The facts about death, if I thought about them, 就会立即改变自己的行为
would change my behavior, 但并非因为它为我提供一个合理的理由
but not because it would give me a reason to change my behavior-- 只不过它直接影响了我的行为"
simply because it would influence my behavior." 基于这种回答
And, given that, 我们也许会说  还是不去想它们为好
we might say, better to not think about them. 以上是呼喊者得出的结论
That would be the bold claim to make at this point. 假设  比方说
Suppose, for example, that, 面对死亡  正确的生存方式
the right way to live, in light of the facts about death, 是充实人生
is to live life to the fullest. 但假设你认为死亡使你过于压抑
But suppose if you think about death you just get too depressed 以至于你无法使你的人生充实起来
and you can't live life to the fullest. 死亡并没有给予你
It's not that the facts about death give you reason 窝在家里生闷气的理由
to stay in your room and sulk. 它们直接
It's just that the facts about death cause you 促使你宅在家里生闷气
to stay in your room and sulk. 这样一来  回避
If that was the case, then disregarding, 长久地回避死亡也许
always disregarding, the facts about death might well 的确比较合适
be the appropriate response. 但也可能存在另一种声音
Well, that would be a rather bold claim. 跳出来反对前者
I'm not inclined to believe that the bold claim is right. 我们是否就能因此得出
Should we conclude therefore that, 我们要时常惦记着死亡
no, you should always be thinking about the facts about death? 不  我反对刚才那个观点
No, i'm inclined to think that that other bold claim, 从另一角度来看
on the other side, 它可能也是错误的
is probably mistaken as well. 那么好  再一次  最后一次了
So there you are, one more time, one last time, 你正要跟佩姬·苏
making out with Peggy Sue 或是比利·鲍勃亲热
or Billy Bob and 你室友又跳出来  想要跟你讲讲
your roommate comes in and starts trying to tell you 他在雪莱·卡根的死亡课
about the fact that he's taken Shelly Kagan's class on death 或是在某堂生物课上学到的
or he's been studying in some biology class, 想要告诉你
and he wants to tell you about 人类的肉体如何腐烂
how human bodies decay when they turn into corpses. 当他开始对你滔滔不绝地讲述这些时
As he begins to tell you this story, 你脑海里不断浮现
you start picturing 佩姬·苏如何演变成即将腐烂的尸体
Peggy Sue as a rotting corpse. 突然  你不再想去亲吻她了
Suddenly, you don't really feel like kissing her anymore. 这跟消化道的故事有些类似
It's sort of like the digestive tract story. 就我看来
It's not that, as far as I can see, 并不是她即将
the fact that she's going to be 成为死尸给予你任何不去亲她的理由
a corpse gives you any reason not to kiss her. 只不过是联想到
It's just that thinking 她即将要腐烂
about the fact that she's going to be a corpse 你便不愿再亲她
causes you to not want to kiss her, 你无法沉浸在接吻之中
not be able to enjoy kissing her. 所以我倾向于认为
So, I'm inclined to think that the right position here 这是一个事实  温和的事实
is a kind of moderate one, a modest one. 你有足够的时间和场合思考死亡
There are times and places for thinking about the facts of death. 当你在错误的时间错误的地点亲吻某人
When you're kissing somebody-- that is not the time and that is not the place. 于是乎
The position that says, 你必须随时谨记
you should always have the fact of your mortality 生命是短暂的  我觉得这也不正确
forever before your mind's eye--I think that's misguided. 类似地  尽管别人说
Similarly, though, anybody who says, 你永远也不要
you should never think about 思考死亡及其本质
the facts of mortality and the nature of death 这也是误人子弟的说法
I think that's misguided as well. 这其中仍存在时间和地点的问题
There's a time and place. 但我们仍留有一个问题
But that still leaves us with the question. All right, 假设现在时间地点都正确
so suppose this is the time and place. 如果存在一个便于思考死亡的时点跟地点
If ever there was a time and place for thinking about the facts of death 它又会如何影响我们的生活
and how it should influence our life, 现在  在死亡的课堂上
it's right now, 我们就可以来思考死亡
in a class on death. 因此  我们仍旧不得不面对这个问题
So, we still have to face the question, 你该怎样生存
how should you live? 我们应该如何正确
What is the appropriate response 看待生死
to the facts about life and death? 这个问题我们留到下节课再讨论
That's the question we have to turn to next time. 



 Chapter 21: 对死亡的恐惧


上节课
Last time, 我提到了对于死亡性质的思考
I distinguished between two ways in which thinking about 可能影响我们行为方式的
the facts about the nature of death 两种不同途径
could influence our behavior. 一方面  它可能给我们理由
On the one hand, it could give us reasons 让我们改变行为方式  另一方面
to behave or respond differently, and on the other hand 它本身就使我们改变行为方式
it could merely cause us to behave differently. 如果这种改变
Insofar as it just happens to be 只不过是人类心理学中的
some fact about human psychology 一些现象而已
that we behave this way or that way, 或许面对死亡最恰当的方式就是
perhaps the appropriate way to deal with the facts of death would be 完全忽略它
to simply disregard them. 但我总是认为
I'm inclined to believe, however, 思考这些事情
that there are ways in which thinking about the facts 并不仅仅改变我们的行为方式
would not merely cause us to behave one way rather than another 而是给我们理由
but give us reason 让我们改变行为方式
to behave one way rather than another. 这就是我现在想探讨的问题
And that's the question that I want to then explore from here on out. 在什么情况下  通过什么途径
In what circumstances, or in what ways, 我们应该改变行为方式
should we behave one way rather than another? 所以我不仅要研究
So, I'm not merely going to draw on 我们的行为会怎样
facts about how, as it happens, we behave. 有可能你想到死亡的时候
It could be that if you dwelled upon the facts about death, 会一直尖叫不已  直到死亡
you would scream interminably until the moment you died-- 借用托尔斯泰的说法
taking a tip from Tolstoy. 但这一行为本身
But that doesn't itself 说明不了它是恰当的行为
show that that's an appropriate response; 也许它仅仅出于我们的本能
that might just be a mere causal fact about how we're built. 我想问的是  如何才是恰当的
The question I want to ask is, how is it appropriate, 有什么理由
in what ways is there reason, 做出这种反应而不是另一种反应
to react one way rather than another? 我之前提到过
Now as I say, 我们大部分人都认为
the thought seems very compelling for most of us that 有令人信服的理由说明
there are ways in which it makes sense 死亡影响了我们的生活方式
for the facts about death to influence how we live, 我们的观念  我们的情感
what our attitudes are, what are emotions are. 例如  卡夫卡说过
Kafka, for example, said 生命的意义在于其终将陨落
the meaning of life is the fact that it ends. 隽永的警句  卡夫卡经典风格
Nice little cryptic saying, as is typical of Kafka. 但它的含义  我想却很平常
But the suggestion, I suppose, is a fairly common one, 我们必有一死  生命最终会抵达终点
that it's something deep about how we should live, 对我们如何生活有着深刻的影响
that we're going to die, that our life will come to an end. 那么我们下面的问题就是
And the question we want to then explore is how should the fact, 意识到自己必有一死
how should recognizing the fact, that we're going to die, 会怎样影响我们的生活方式
influence how we live? 我们应该如何应对这一事实
How should we respond to that fact? 实际上  最初的一种行为
Now actually, the very first kind of behavior, 带引号的行为
quote/unquote behavior, that I want us to think about 或许严格说来不能算作一种行为
perhaps isn't strictly speaking a form of behavior at all. 我认为只是一种情绪反应
I rather have in mind our emotional response, 因为实际上
because indeed one of 对死亡最平常的反应  我认为
the most common reactions to death, I suppose, is 就是惧怕死亡
fear of death. "惧怕"在很多时候词义偏弱
Indeed, fear may in many cases be too weak a term 一种程度很深的惧怕
an extremely strong form of fear-- 对死亡的畏惧  我认为
terror of death is, I suppose, 是对死亡最常见的反应
a very common emotional response to death. 我接下来要做的是
And what I want to do next 让我们想一想
is have us ask ourselves, well, 惧怕死亡是一种理性的
is fear of death a rationally 恰当的反应吗
appropriate response? 这里的关键词是"恰当的"
Now, the crucial word here is "Appropriate." 我不否认经验告诉我
I don't want to deny at all what I take to be the empirical fact 很多人都害怕死亡
that many people are afraid of death. 这种反应有多平常
How common a reaction that is, 这种恐惧有多强烈  我认为这是
and how strong the fear is, I suppose that would be something 心理学家或社会学家研究的课题
for psychologists or sociologists to study. 我对这个问题不感兴趣
And I'm not interested in that question. 我认可恐惧死亡很普遍
I take it that fear of death is very common. 我想弄清楚的是
I want to know, 对死亡的恐惧是不是恰当的
is fear of death an appropriate, 理性的情绪
a reasonable emotion? 提出这个问题  我已经假设了
Now, in raising that question, I'm obviously presupposing 更多的哲学理论说明
the larger philosophical thesis that 可以将情绪分为
it makes sense to talk about emotions as being 恰当的  或者不恰当的
appropriate or inappropriate. 我们不仅可以探讨一个人有什么情绪
We can ask not only what emotions does somebody have, 也可以探讨一个人该有什么情绪
but we can also ask what emotions should they have? 这一点也许不那么明显
Now, this point perhaps isn't an obvious one, so 所以花点时间研究一下也是值得的
maybe it's worth dwelling on for a moment or two, 然后我们再探讨对死亡的恐惧
before we turn to fear of death per se. 还有什么别的例子
What's another example of an emotion 对情绪有恰当性要求
that's got some appropriateness conditions? 过一会儿我再分析
So, in a moment I'll turn to asking, 在什么情况下
what are the conditions under which it's 害怕某事是恰当的
appropriate to be afraid of something? 但从宽泛的角度来说
but to make the more general point, 比如说自豪吧  自豪是一种情绪
look, take something like pride; pride's an emotion. 在什么情况下
Under what conditions does it make sense 为一些事感到自豪是合理的
to be proud of something? 我认为至少有两个条件  首先
Well, I suppose at least two conditions jump out. First of all, 你为之自豪的事情是某种成就
the thing that you're proud of has to be some kind of accomplishment. 如果你现在告诉我
If you were to say to me right now, 我很自豪我正在呼吸
"I'm really proud of the fact that I'm breathing," 我会不解的看着你
I'd look at you in a noncomprehending fashion 因为我没觉得
because it doesn't seem to me 呼吸是件多么困难的事
that breathing is difficult in any way, 不能称为一种成就
doesn't count as an accomplishment, 所以我不能理解你如何以及为何
and as such I can't understand how or why you would be proud 对能呼吸感到自豪
of the fact that you're breathing. 不过  也许你是位哮喘患者
Now, maybe if you suffered from asthma and 你必须经受极度痛苦的物理疗法
you had to have gone through excruciating physical therapy 才能在意外发生后
in order to learn how to use 学会用自己的肺呼吸
your lungs after some accident or something; 如果我们听到类似的情况
maybe if we told a story like that 我们就会了解为什么平平常常
we could see how breathing naturally 自然流畅的呼吸是一项成就
and normally would be an accomplishment, 是件值得自豪的事情
something to be proud of. 但对全体同学来讲  我估计
But for all of us, I presume, 这算不上一项成就
it's not an accomplishment; 所以为它感到自豪是不恰当的
hence it's not something that it's appropriate to be proud of. 即使我们获得了成就
Even if we've got an accomplishment, 也不一定就能自豪
that may not be enough. 一件事成为
For something to be something 一件你可以为之自豪的事
that it makes sense for you to be proud of it, 它必须是某种
it's got to be in some way 包含了你贡献的成就
an accomplishment that reflects well on you. 最容易举出来的例子就是
Now, the most straightforward cases are cases 那些你自己的成就
where it's your accomplishment, 为何你会自豪呢
and the reason that pride makes sense 因为你是那个攻克难关的人
is because you're the one who did this difficult thing. 比如  你的哲学作业得了A
So, you got an A on your philosophy paper 你告诉我你很自豪
and you tell me that you're proud 我可以理解
and I understand that; 哲学作业得A是一项成就
getting an A on a philosophy paper is an accomplishment, 如果是你写的作业
and if you wrote the paper 我理解你为什么会感到自豪
then I understand why you're proud. 当然  如果你上互联网
Of course, if what you did was go on the Internet 找到那些网站花钱雇用枪手
and go to one of those sites where you pay money and somebody else 写了一篇作业得了A
writes an A paper for you, well, 那我可以理解那些枪手会自豪
I understand why maybe they should be proud 因为他们写了完美的
that they've written a great 哲学作业  但我看不出来
philosophy paper, but I don't see how this 这会对你造成何种正面影响
reflects especially positively upon you. 所以  自豪需要某种恰当性条件
So again, there's a kind of appropriateness condition for pride, 那个目标或者事件
where the object or the event 或者你为之自豪的行为
or the activity that you're proud of, 或者一些特色  是出于你的贡献
or the feature, has to somehow reflect on you. 这里并不是说一定要是你的成就
Now, that's not to say that it's got to be your accomplishment, 至少不这么狭隘
at least not in any straightforward, narrow sense. 同样合理的是  比如你对
It makes sense, for example, to be proud of 你孩子的成就感到自豪  因为
your children's accomplishments because 你们之间存在恰当的联系
there's the right kind of connection between you and your children. 所以在某种意义下
So, in some sense 这项成就和你相关
it's connected to you. 而在某些情况下
And we can have cases where 我们会考虑这份联系是否足够紧密
we wonder about whether or not the connection is tight enough 或者这种联系的性质到底是什么
or what exactly the nature of the connection has to be. 或许作为美国人你很自豪
Perhaps as an American you took pride 美国人赢得奥运冠军
when the Americans win some event at the Olympics 或者环法冠军  你说
or the Tour de France or what have you, and you say to yourself, 虽然我不是骑手
"Well look, I didn't ride the bicycle 但作为美国人
but for all that I'm an American 美国人赢了  我很自豪
and an American won, I'm proud." 这说得通
And that makes sense; 我们可以理解
we can understand 为什么你认为这份联系足够紧密
how you think the connection there is tight enough. 另一方面  如果你说
On the other hand if you say, 看  德国人在
"Look, the Germans won the 奥运比赛里赢了  我很自豪
event in the Olympics and I'm really proud," 那我会问  你是德国人吗
and I ask, well, are you yourself German, 你有德国血统吗
do you have German heritage, 你为德国奥运代表团做过后勤工作吗
did you contribute to the German Olympics support team? 如果不符合以上条件
If none of that's true, 那就不满足恰当性条件
then again the appropriateness condition doesn't seem to be satisfied. 你感到自豪是不合理的
It doesn't make sense to be proud. 好了  我们还可以花更多的时间探讨
All right, look, we could spend more time worrying about the 感到自豪需要的条件
conditions under which it makes sense to feel pride. 但这当然不是我的目的
But of course that's not really my purpose here. 我引入这个讨论的目的
My purpose of bringing that in was 是要解释清楚
just to try to make good on the thought 情绪确实需要条件
that emotions do have requirements; 并不是非要存在这些条件
not necessarily requirements for what 你才能够感到这种情绪
you have to have in place in order to feel the emotion. 这是个更艰深的问题
It's a harder question 是不是这些条件都要满足
whether all these things need to be in place 才能感到这种情绪
in order to feel the emotion. 但是至少这些条件都要满足
But at least these things need to be in place 你产生这种情绪才是有意义的
in order for it to make sense for you to have the emotion, 才是合理的
in order for it to be rational 产生这种情绪才说得通
or reasonable to feel the emotion, 这种情绪反应也才是
in order for that emotional response to be 对你所处境况的恰当反应
an appropriate response to your circumstances or situation. 所以  让我们问问自己
So, let's ask ourselves, then, 恐惧需要什么恰当性条件
what are the appropriateness conditions for fear? 了解了这些条件
Because armed with that set of conditions, 我们就能进一步思考
we'll then be able to go on and ask, 对死亡的恐惧是否恰当
is it appropriate to feel fear of death? 当我思考这个问题时
Now, three conditions come to mind 我想到了三个条件
when I think about this question, 我已经思考这个问题好多年了
when I've thought about this question over the years. 第一个条件是  我认为
The first is this--and I suppose 第一个条件最没争议
this first one's going to be fairly uncontroversial 要惧怕某事
--in order to be afraid of something-- 即使我没有严格地讲
even though I slipped in this, to talk about 你需要什么条件才会感到害怕
what you need to have in order to feel fear, 我真正的意思是
what I really mean is 为了使害怕成为合理的情绪
in order for it to make sense to feel fear-- 你害怕的事情一定要是件坏事
the thing that you're afraid of has to be bad. 如果有人告诉我
If somebody were to say to me, 我害怕下课后
"I'm afraid that after class 有人会给我圆筒冰淇淋
somebody's going to give me an ice cream cone", 再一次  我会不解的看着他们  说
again I'd look at them in noncomprehension. I'd say, 你为什么害怕呢
"Why are you afraid of that? 这件事怎么会让你害怕呢
How could it make any sense to be afraid?" 当然  有些人可以给你答案
And again, it's not that somebody couldn't give you an answer. 他们会说  哦  我正在减肥
They'd say, "Oh I'm trying to lose weight 但我意志薄弱
but I'm so weak 如果他们给我圆筒冰淇淋
and if they give me an ice cream cone 我就会吃的
then I'll just eat it 我这周就白节食了
and that'll ruin my diet for the week," 那么  我就懂了
Well, then I'd understand. 从这个角度来讲
From that point of view 圆筒冰淇淋是件坏事
an ice cream cone is a bad thing 所以产生恐惧的第一个条件就满足了
and so that first condition on fear would be satisfied. 但如果你没有做出这样的解释
But if you don't have a story like that, 如果你和我们大家一样
if you're like most of us, 大多数时间  冰淇淋都非常不错
most of the time, and an ice cream cone's a pretty good thing, 乐趣有点短暂但确实不错
a source of some passing but at least genuine pleasure, 你会说  你怎么会害怕
then you say, "How can you be afraid of 享用或者吃一个圆筒冰淇淋呢
having or getting or eating an ice cream cone?" 这说不通  害怕某事
It doesn't make sense. To be afraid of something, 这件事必须是坏事
it's got to be bad. 这就是其中一个原因为什么我们
It's one of the reasons why we 有时另眼看待那些
sometimes look askance at people who have 患上各种恐惧症的人  害怕蜘蛛
various kinds of phobias-- fear of spiders or 或者灰尘  或者什么别的东西
fear of dust or what have you, 害怕兔子
fear of bunnies-- 你会想  这怎么说得通
and you think, how does this make any sense? 这个可爱的小兔子
It's this cute little bunny; 它一点也不危险
it's not dangerous. 或许有的蜘蛛有毒
And maybe there are poisonous spiders, 但大多数
but most of the spiders 在康涅狄格州这里的蜘蛛都没毒
we run across here in Connecticut are not poisonous. 害怕蜘蛛并不恰当
Fear of spiders doesn't seem appropriate. 并不是说人们不能有这种情绪反应
It's not that people can't have this kind of emotional reaction, 而是说这种反应不合理
it's that it doesn't make sense. 但如果你在澳大利亚  情况就不同了
Maybe it's another matter if you live in Australia, 那里四处都是毒蛇
where there's poisonous snakes 毒蜘蛛和其它昆虫
and spiders and other insects everyplace. 所以  条件一
All right. So, condition number one: 惧怕的事情需要是坏事
Fear requires something bad, as the object of your fear. 我会害怕偏头痛
I can fear getting a migraine, 如果我被它折磨着
if I'm subject to migraines. 我不会害怕欣赏落日
I can't fear the pleasure of looking at a beautiful sunset. 这就是条件一
That's condition number one 坏事情  造成伤害的事情
-bad object, something harmful. 条件二
Condition number two is, 应该有不可忽视的可能性
there's got to be a nonnegligible chance 这些坏事会发生
of the bad state of affairs happening, 会对你造成伤害
of the bad object coming to you. 只有逻辑上的可能性并不足以
It's not enough that it's a logical possibility 说明恐惧是合理的反应
for fear to be a reasonable reaction. 如果认为我最终可能死于
There's nothing logically inconsistent or logically incoherent 被孟加拉虎撕成碎片
about the possibility that I will face my death 这在逻辑上没有不一致或不连贯的地方
by being ripped to pieces by Siberian tigers. 这不是件自相矛盾的事情
It's not as though that's an inconsistent state of affairs. 在逻辑上当然有可能
It's certainly logically possible, 但太难发生了
but it's so unlikely, 可能性太小了
it's so negligibly small a chance, 如果在座诸位有谁
that if anybody here 害怕自己被老虎撕成碎片
is afraid that they'll be ripped to pieces by tigers, 那我只能说
then I can only say 这种害怕不合理  不恰当
the fear doesn't make any sense, it's not appropriate. 当然  我们可能会听到些特殊的情况
Again, we can tell special stories where that might be different. 假如你告诉我  你来上学以前
Suppose you tell me that, oh, when you're not a student, 勤工俭学的工作是
your work study program, what you do is, 一名驯兽员
you work as an animal trainer, 或者你打算去马戏团工作
or you're planning to work in the circus 训练老虎  那么我会说  好的
where you'll be training tigers, then I'll say, all right, 现在你被老虎撕碎吃掉的可能性
now I suppose there's a nonnegligible chance you'll be mauled 不可忽视
and killed by tigers. 我理解这点
I understand it. 但对我们其他人  我认为
But for the rest of us, I suppose, 被老虎杀死的可能性
the chance of being killed by tigers is, well, 就算不是零也接近零
it's not literally zero, but it's close to zero, 可以忽略不计
it's negligible. 所以  害怕被老虎撕咬吃掉
And so, fear of being eaten by tigers or mauled to death by tigers 不合常理
doesn't make any sense. 当你了解了这一点
And once you get the point, 就很容易探讨
of course, it would be easy to talk about 其它一些小概率事件
a variety of other things that the chances are so small 害怕被半人马座阿尔法星的生物劫持
fear of being kidnapped by space creatures from Alpha Centauri, 被带回实验室  他们用针扎我
where I'll be taken back to the lab and they'll prod me before 然后不打麻药把我活体解剖
they dissect me alive without anesthetic. 我承认存在这种可能性
Yes, I suppose there's some possibility of that. 逻辑上这不是不可能的
It's not logically impossible. 但这种可能性太小了
But again it's so vanishingly small a chance, 谁要真的为此感到害怕
and anybody who actually is afraid of that, 那我们合适的说法就是
the appropriate thing for us to say is 他们的恐惧不恰当
that their fear is not appropriate. 好了  所以坏事必须有可能发生
All right, so you need to have a chance of the bad thing, 而且要有足够大的可能性
and it's got to be a large enough chance. 当然我认为  我们有空间去探讨
And I suppose again there would be room for us to argue about 多大的可能性才够大
how large a chance is large enough, 但如果可能性接近于零
but when you have vanishingly small chances then 那么恐惧就没有意义
the fear doesn't make any sense. 这就是第二个条件
That's condition number two. 第三个条件  我认为会有些争议
Condition number three, I think, is somewhat more controversial, 但不管怎么说  我认为它是对的
but for all that it still seems correct to me, 它说的是
and that's this. 需要有足够的不确定性
We need to have a certain amount of uncertainty 恐惧才会是恰当的
in order to have fear be appropriate. 你需要一些
You need to have some-- 不一定是多少
it's not clear how much-- 但至少要有不少的不确定性
but at least some significant amount of uncertainty 不确知那件坏事是否会发生
about whether the bad thing will occur, 以及/或者  它会坏到什么程度
and/or how bad the bad thing will be. 注意  第三个条件和前面的关联
To see the point, to see the relevance of this third condition, 假设一件坏事
imagine that a bad thing 有不可忽视的可能性发生
was going to happen to you with a nonnegligible chance. 实际上  不是那种可能性很小
Indeed, far from being so small that 小到不值得考虑的事情
it's virtually not worth even considering, 假设它必然会发生
imagine that it's guaranteed 这件坏事一定会发生
that the bad thing is going to happen. 所以  一件坏事一定会发生
So, there's a bad thing that's going to happen, 而且你确切知道它有多坏
and you know precisely how bad it is. 所以你很确定
So you've got certainty with regard to the fact 这件坏事会发生
that the bad thing is going to happen, 也确知它有多坏
and certainly with regard to the size of the bad thing. 我希望你们同意  在这种情况下
I put it to you that in circumstances like that, 恐惧不是恰当的情绪反应
fear is not an appropriate emotional response. 假设事情是这样的
Suppose that what happens is this. 每天你来上学  上班  如此这般
Every day you come to school, to the office, whatever it is, 你带着便当
and you bring a bagged lunch, 你把它放进办公室的冰箱里
and you put it in the office refrigerator. 连同午饭  你还带了
And you include, along with your lunch, 一块甜点  比如一块饼干
a dessert; let's say a cookie. 每天中午一点钟
And every day at one o'clock, 你从冰箱里取出午饭
when you go to grab your lunch out of the refrigerator, 你打开一看
you look inside 发现有人偷了你的饼干
and you see somebody has stolen your cookie. 这是件坏事
Well, it's a bad thing; 不是世界上最坏的事
it's not the worst thing in the world, 但有人偷了你饼干仍然是件坏事
but it's a bad thing to have somebody steal your cookie. 不光如此
And furthermore, 这种事发生的几率不容忽视
this is more than a negligible chance. 所以  我们满足了条件一  条件二
So, we've got condition one, condition two in place-- 坏事情以及不可忽视的可能性
bad thing and a nonnegligible chance of it happening. 但实际上  还不仅是
In fact, not only is it 不可忽视的可能性
not a negligible chance that it's happening- 这件事天天发生  肯定发生
-guaranteed, it happens day after day after day after day. 坏事情  肯定发生
Bad thing, guaranteed. 而且你非常清楚它有多坏
And you know precisely how bad it is. 我希望你们同意
I put it to you, 在这种情况下恐惧不合情理  请注意
fear in that case doesn't make any sense. Mind you, 这时其它负面情绪或许合情合理
there are other negative emotions that probably make sense, 比如愤怒以及怨恨
like anger and resentment. 这个可恶的贼  甭管他是谁
Who does this thief, whoever it is, 以为他/她是谁  竟敢偷我的饼干
think that he or she is, to be stealing your cookie? 他们没权利这样做  你可以愤怒
They don't have the right to do that! You can be angry, 你可以怨恨
you can be resentful. 你天天吃不上甜点可能会沮丧
You can be sad that you don't have a dessert, day after day after day. 但你不会害怕
But you can't be afraid, 因为没有事情
because there's nothing here 让你有理由害怕
that it makes sense for you to be afraid of. 当然  我们可以假设
Again, being a little sloppy, 你会感到害怕
maybe you are afraid, 但如果这样  这种害怕不合理
but if so, fear doesn't make sense, 当你确知这件坏事会发生
when you know for a certainty that the bad thing is coming 而且知道它有多坏
and how bad it is. 假设这个贼随意行窃
Suppose that the thief strikes at random, 从不同人的饭盒里偷甜品
taking different people's desserts from different bags 在一周不同的时间里行窃
at different times of the week, 你根本不知道
and you never know who 他或是她下一个偷谁
he or she is going to steal from. 那么你可能害怕自己成为下一个
Then you might be afraid that you'll be the person 饼干被偷的人
whose cookie got stolen. 如果你们觉得饼干的例子太傻了
Or if cookie seems to you too silly an example, 那么假设有人闯入宿舍
imagine that what happens is somebody breaks into dorm rooms. 有个贼在校园宿舍间游逛
There's been a thief going around various dorms on campus 从宿舍里偷计算机
and stealing the computer from the dorm room. 那么这时  恐惧是有道理的
Well there, fear makes sense; 你会害怕他们下一次偷你的计算机
you're afraid that they'll steal your computer. 坏事情  不可忽视的可能性
Bad thing, nonnegligible chance, 以及不确定性
and lack of certainty. 但是  如果事情是这样的
On the other hand, suppose what happens is, 就像你在电影里经常看到的一样
this is one of those thieves like you always have in the movies, 他是个神偷  或者她是个神偷
where he's such a master thief, or she's such a master thief, 他们为自己的工作感到自豪
that they take pride in their work, 所以他们提前预告
and so they announce it. 他们在耶鲁日报上刊登声明  他们说
They take out an ad in the Yale Daily News and they say, 四月27日  星期三  我会去偷
"On Wednesday, April 27th, I shall steal 某某房间里的计算机
the computer from so-and-so's room." 然后不管你做了多少预防准备
And it doesn't matter what precautions you take, 该发生的总是发生
something always happens, 那个人的计算机被偷了
and that person's computer gets stolen. 那么你可以愤怒
Well, again, you could be angry, 你可以怨恨  你可以发火
you can be pissed, you can be annoyed, 你觉得自己没做好防备真是愚蠢
you can feel stupid that you didn't take adequate precautions. 但是当声明登出
But when the ad appears, 上面有你的名字  时间
with your name, and that date, 而且这个贼全年都按照
and all year the thief has always carried through 声明行窃
on the announced theft, 我希望你们同意  恐惧就没有道理了
I put it to you, fear doesn't make any sense, 因为如果你确知
because if you know exactly 伤害有多大
what the size of the harm is going to be, 而且你确知伤害将会发生
and you're guaranteed that the harm is coming, 恐惧就不再是恰当的
fear is no longer appropriate. 假设我有一个小型拷问机
Suppose that I have a little torture machine, 小型疼痛产生仪
a little pain generator, 我把你的手放进去
where I put your hand down 把它连上电极
and I hook it up to the electrodes 我转动手柄打开开关
and I crank the dial and I pull the switch, 你会感到一阵电击
and you feel an electric shock. 如果每次电击的强度都不一样
It makes sense to feel fear 你担心下一次电击会多难受
what the next shock is going to feel like, 是合情合理的
if the shocks vary in their intensity. 但如果这台机器只有一档
But if the machine's only got one setting, 开或者关
on and off, 每次电击造成的痛楚都一样
and all the shocks feel exactly the same, 而且我让你尝试过  看
and I've done it for you, "So look, okay, 让你试一下电击的滋味  就这样
let me show you what it feels like; it feels like that." 哦  不舒服
Oh, not comfortable. 让你试一下电击的滋味  就这样
Let me show you what it feels like, it feels like that; 一遍一遍  五  六  七  八次
over and over, 5, 6, 7, 8 times; 我们在做一些古怪的心理学实验
we're doing some sort of weird psychology experiment here. 你明确知道下一次电击会怎样
Well, you know exactly that it's coming, 你明确知道会有什么感觉
you know exactly what it's going to feel like. 我希望你们同意
Fear, I put it to you, 这时恐惧是没有道理的
doesn't make any sense. 假设当实验结束
Suppose the experiment's over now, 你得到了十块钱报酬
and you think--you've gotten your ten dollars 但我不让你走  我说
and I refuse to let you go and I say, 我还会再做一次
"I'm going to do it one more time, 不会比前面的更疼
no worse than before." 你可能信不过我
Well, you might not believe me 那么这时会出现不确定性
and that might introduce the element of uncertainty 那么这时产生恐惧就是恰当的
and then perhaps fear would be appropriate. 但如果你信任我
But if you believe me that 你会感到和前面一模一样的疼痛
one more pain exactly like the ones you felt before is coming, 这时愤怒是合理的
fear--anger makes sense, 怨恨是合理的
resentment makes sense, 又要忍受疼痛让你感到沮丧是合理的
sadness that you're going to feel this pain perhaps makes sense-- 但是恐惧不合理
but fear doesn't make sense. 所以  三个条件
So, three conditions. 这件事必须是坏事
You need to have it's something bad. 这件事一方面
You need to have on the one hand 需要有不可忽视的可能性发生
nonnegligible chance that the bad thing's going to happen, 一方面需要有一定的不确定性
and you have to have a lack of certainty. 如果你明确这件坏事的性质
If you've got certainty as to the nature of the bad 以及它肯定要发生
and certainty that it's coming, 那么恐惧就没有道理
then fear doesn't make sense. 有个观点在这里值得一提
One of the points probably worth mentioning in passing-- 即使恐惧是合理的
even when fear does make sense, 这里还有一个程度合适的问题
there's a kind of proportionality condition 我们也需要注意
that we need to keep in mind as well. 即使伤害有不可忽视的可能性发生
Even if there's a nonnegligible chance of the harm coming, 那么恐惧是恰当的
and so fear is appropriate, 但怕的要死
it doesn't make fear appropriate if it's obsessive fear, 惶惶不可终日也不恰当
horrendous fear, tremendous fear. 或许"稍微注意"是对
Maybe some mild concern is all that's appropriate 低概率事件的适度反应
if the chances are small. 同时  恐惧程度要符合
Similarly, the amount of fear needs to be proportioned to 事情糟糕的程度
the size of the bad. 这就是为什么饼干的例子
That's perhaps why the cookie example, 你们会认为恐惧过度是不恰当的
you might think a lot of fear there's not appropriate 因为即使发生了
because even if it comes, 能有多糟糕  丢了块饼干而已
how bad is it? Loss of a cookie. 好了  所以需要满足一些条件
All right, so there are some conditions that need 恐惧才是恰当的
to be met before fear is appropriate at all, 而且  即使恐惧是恰当的
and on the other hand even when fear is appropriate, 我们仍然需要关注
it's still legitimate to ask, 多大的恐惧是适度的
how much fear is appropriate? 明白了这些以后
So, armed with all of this, 让我们来探讨恐惧死亡是否恰当
let's now turn to the question, is fear of death appropriate, 如果恰当  多少是适度的
and if so, how much? 马上  我们就会看到
And immediately we see 我们需要做些区分
we need to draw some distinctions. 当我们惧怕死亡时
Well, what are we supposedly being afraid of 我们惧怕的是什么
when we are afraid of death? 有两到三种情况需要分清
And two or perhaps three things need to be distinguished. 第一种情况  你可能害怕死亡的过程
The first thing you might worry about is the process of dying. 一些人发现
Some people find that 他们生命终结的时候
the actual process at the end of their life 痛苦不堪  难以忍受
is a painful and unpleasant one. 我曾提到过被老虎撕咬
Yes, I've given the example of being mauled to death by tigers or 或者生吃的例子
eaten alive by tigers. 我估计这样死去很不愉快
Well, I imagine that would be a pretty unpleasant way to die. 而且如果有不可忽视的可能性
And so insofar as there is some nonnegligible chance that 你会这样痛苦地死去
you will die a painful death, 那么我认为
then I suppose there's 适度的恐惧是恰当的
some room for some--an appropriate amount--of fear. 当然  我们会问
Of course, we then have to ask, 你这么痛苦地死去  可能性有多大
well, what is the chance that you'll die painfully? 我已经指出
I've already indicated for 我认为这间教室里的人
people in this room I rather imagine the chance 被老虎撕咬致死的可能性微乎其微
of being mauled to death by tigers is vanishingly small. 所以我认为  对这样死去的
So, I think, no fear of that 任何恐惧都是不恰当的
form of painful death is appropriate. 就此而论  我认为
And for that matter, I've got to suggest that 害怕自己痛苦地死于
I suspect that fear of dying through 半人马座阿尔法星外星人之手
a painful operation by the aliens from Alpha Centauri 也是不恰当的
is not appropriate either. 不过  令人悲伤的是
Still, the sad fact of the matter is 世界上确实有些人
that there are people in the world 经历了死亡时的痛苦  特别是
who do suffer painful deaths, in particular, of course, 一些疾病
because the number of diseases 在晚期夺去我们生命的时候
that might kill us off in their final stages 会造成痛苦
are sometimes painful. 如今  让人感兴趣的是
Now, one of the interesting facts is 我们可以给病人足够的止痛药
that we could of course minimize or eliminate the pain 帮助他们减轻或消除痛苦
by giving people adequate pain medication. 所以  如果得知
And so, it comes as a rather unpleasant bit of news 大多数医院在病人临终之时
that most hospitals do not provide 并不提供充足的止痛药
adequate pain medication, 会让人感到不快
in many, many instances, at the end of life. 为什么
Why? 这是另一个完全不同的复杂问题
That's a whole other complicated question. 但我认为要是有人告诉我  看
But I suppose if somebody were to say to me that--look, 我在报上看到  有些定期的研究
I read the newspaper, there are studies done periodically 调查在生命的最后阶段
about whether or not there's adequate pain medication 是否能获得足够的止痛药
at the end of life 年复一年  这个调查都表明  没有
and the studies suggest, year after year, that no, 我们在大多数情况下仍然
we still don't in general 不能获得充足的止痛药
provide adequate pain medication. 如果你对我说
If you were to say to me, 考虑到这一点
"In light of that 我害怕自己也会碰到这样的事
I've got some fear that this may happen to me," 那么  我会理解的
Well, I'd understand that. 但是  如果你对我说
Again, if you said to me, 我因为这事吓得睡不着觉
"I can't sleep for fear that this is going to happen to me," 我会说
I'd want to say, well, 这么害怕在我看来不适度
that sort of fear strikes me as disproportionate. 但不管怎么说  我认为
But at any rate, I suppose that when 当人们说他们害怕死亡时
people say that they're afraid of death, 虽然一些人  在一些时间
although some of them, in some moments, 可能认为
might have in mind, 他们的意思是他们害怕死亡的过程
what they mean is that they're afraid of the process of dying, 但我认为这不是
I take it that that's not actually 人们谈论恐惧死亡时的核心意思
the central fear that people mean to be expressing. 人们的意思是他们害怕死亡本身
People mean to suggest that they're afraid of death itself, 他们害怕会死去
they're afraid of being dead. 但是关于这一点  我觉得
And with regard to that, I want to suggest, 相关的条件并未满足
I don't actually think the relevant conditions are satisfied. 好了  让我们复习一遍它们都是什么
Look, let's think about what they were again. 需要一定程度的不确定性
There was a certain amount of uncertainty. Well, 而讲到死亡
of course, with regard to being dead 这里没有任何不确定性
there's no uncertainty at all. 你必有一死
You're guaranteed that you're going to die. 另外  条件一
And indeed, condition number one, 坏事情
that the bad thing-- 让我有道理害怕的事必须是坏事
for fear to make sense the object of my fear has to be a bad thing. 那么让我们问一下
Well, let's ask ourselves, 死亡在本质上是坏事吗
is being dead intrinsically a bad thing? 我认为它不是
It doesn't seem to me that it is. 当然  这都基于
Of course, this all presupposes the 这学期前半部分
positions about the nature of death 我已经阐述过的死亡本质的观点
that I argued for in the first half of this semester. 死亡中没什么神秘未知的事情
There's nothing mysterious or unknown about death. 看  假如你觉得有
Look, suppose you thought there was. 假如你相信来世
Suppose you believe in the afterlife, 或者至少相信这种可能
or at least the possibility of an afterlife, 你担心自己会下地狱
and you're worried that you might go to hell. 那么  恐惧就合理了
Well, then fear makes some sense. 如果你觉得有不可忽视的可能性
If there's a possibility, nonnegligible in your mind, 你死后会经历痛苦
that there'll be a painful experience after you die-- 但并不必然发生
not guaranteed 不过要是你罪孽深重
-if you're a bad enough sinner so that you're 那么你一定会下地狱
certain you're going to hell, 那么我认为条件三又不满足了
then again I think condition number three isn't satisfied. 但是如果像大多数人一样
But if like most of us 你不知道自己是否罪孽深重
you wouldn't know if you were a bad enough sinner or not, 那么这时就有不可忽视的可能性
and so there's some nonnegligible chance of this bad thing, 以及不确定性  那么
without certainly, well, 如果这样的人说他们害怕死去
somebody like that who says they're afraid of being dead, 因为他们害怕进地狱
for fear that they might find themselves in hell, 至少我能理解
at least I understand that. 但是从物理主义的角度看
But on the physicalist picture 死亡就是终点
where death is the end, 当你肉体腐烂
where when your body decays 你不会有任何感受
there's no experience at all, 那么在我看来
then it seems to me that 恐惧的第一个条件
the first condition on fear 就不满足
isn't satisfied. 毕竟  死亡造成的伤害
The badness of death after all, 根据剥夺理论
according to the deprivation account, 仅仅是它剥夺了美好的事物
is the mere absence of a good. 在我看来  仅仅失去美好事物
And it seems to me the mere absence of a good 不是需要害怕的事情
is not the right kind of thing to be afraid of. 假设我给了你一个圆筒冰淇淋
Suppose I give you an ice cream cone, 你很喜欢它
and you like it. 你希望得到第二个
You wish you could have a second ice cream cone. 但我没有第二个圆筒冰淇淋给你了
But I don't have a second ice cream cone to share with you. 所以你知道
So you know that 在第一个圆筒以后就没有了
after the first ice cream cone is over, 你不会得到第二个圆筒冰淇淋
you won't have a second ice cream cone. 这很遗憾
That's a pity, 这就是失去了一些好东西
that's a lack of something good. 这时你告诉我  我很害怕
And now you're telling me, "I'm afraid; 我很害怕会有这段时间
I'm afraid of the fact that there will be this period 当第一个圆筒冰淇淋吃完以后
after the first ice cream cone is done 得不到第二个圆筒冰淇淋了
in which I'm not getting a second ice cream cone. 我害怕是因为
I'm afraid because of 失去冰淇淋对我造成了伤害
the badness of deprivation of ice cream." 我告诉你  没得到一些东西
I say to you, deprivations per se 不是应该害怕的事情
are not the kind of thing to be afraid of; 它造成的不是需要害怕的伤害
they're not bad in the right kind of way. 所以  如果死亡造成的伤害
So, if death is bad 只是或者主要是
only or most centrally insofar as 它剥夺了生活中的美好事物
it's a deprivation of the good things in life, 那么这里就没有可以害怕的坏事
there's nothing bad there to be afraid of. 当然  这并不意味着
Well, that doesn't mean 死亡就没有其它可怕之处了
there isn't anything here in the neighborhood. 毕竟  我们担心的并不是
After all, we have to worry not just about the fact that 我们会死
we're going to die, 而是我们什么时候会死
we have to worry about when we're going to die. 我们确知自己必有一死
We might be certain that death is going to come, 但我们不知道死亡
but what we're not certain that death 离得很遥远还是很紧迫
is going to come a long time from now, as opposed to soon. 所以  你害怕的事情或许该是
So, perhaps the relevant thing to be afraid of is 你可能死得太早
the possibility that you'll die soon. 想象一个类比
Consider an analogy. 假如你参加一个聚会
Suppose that you're at a party, 一个非常棒的聚会
it's a great party, 你希望一直呆下去
you wish you could stay and stay and stay, 但这个聚会发生在你高中年代
but this is taking place back in high school, 你妈妈会打来电话
and what's going to happen is your mother is going to call 在某个时候叫你回家
at a certain point and tell you it's time to go home. 现在  我们假设回家没什么不好的
Now, let's just imagine there's nothing bad about being at home; 不好不坏
it's neutral. 你希望能留下来但你知道不行
You just wish you could stay but you know you can't. 如果你知道电话会在午夜打来
If you know the call is going to come at midnight, 百分之百肯定
guaranteed, 那么就没什么好害怕的
then there's nothing to be afraid of. 你可能对你妈
You might resent the fact that 在午夜时打电话叫你回家很生气
your mother is going to call you at midnight, 对她不让你
be annoyed at the fact that 像其他朋友那样呆到一点钟
she won't let you stay out till one o'clock 心怀不满
like your other friends, 但没什么好害怕的
but there's nothing to be afraid of. 现在  11点了
There, it's 11 o'clock 你说  我非常害怕
and you're saying, "I'm terrified of the fact that 害怕那个午夜打来的电话
the call's going to come at midnight; 我知道它肯定会打来
I know it's going to come." 看到了  这时恐惧不合常理
See, fear there doesn't make sense, 因为这里没有不确定性
because it doesn't have the relevant degree of uncertainty. 你确切知道会发生什么
You know exactly what's coming 也确切知道它会发生
and you know for a certainty that it's coming; 恐惧不是恰当的情绪
fear isn't appropriate. 那么  假设这件事不是肯定发生
Well, suppose instead of what happens is a guarantee 你妈不是在午夜打来电话
that your mother's going to call at midnight, 现在的情况是
what we've got is 你妈会在11点到1点之间打来电话
your mother's going to call sometime between 11 and 1. 那么  有些担心是合理的
Now, some fear makes sense. 大多时间
Most of the time 她在12点  12点半打来电话
she calls around 12, 12:30; 有时在1点打来
sometimes she calls at 1 for parties; 偶尔在11点打来
occasionally she calls at 11. 你现在担心
You're worried now, 她在11点打来电话的可能性
there's a nonnegligible chance she'll call at 11 比12点或者1点打来的更大
rather than sometime later, 12 or 1 o'clock. 有件坏事情
There's a bad thing, 一些不可忽视的可能性
some nonnegligible chance, 以及不确定性
and the absence of certainty. 现在  一定程度的恐惧是合理的
Now some degree of fear makes sense. 这也许和我们对于死亡的恐惧一样
And perhaps that's what we've got with regard to death. 如果是这样  我们可以说
If so, we might say 关键是因为
the crucial ingredient here, 死亡的不可预测性
by virtue of which death is something that it's appropriate for us 所以我们惧怕死亡是恰当的
to be afraid of is because of the unpredictability. 即使生命长度因人而异
Even if we had variability 死亡也未必不可预测
we might not have unpredictability. 这个观点我们前面讲过
That's a point that we touched upon previously. 因为不可预测
It's the unpredictability 所以你不确知
that leaves you in a position of not knowing 死亡何时降临
whether death will come soon, or death will come late. 你会在20岁死去  还是50岁
Will you die at 20, will you die at 50, 还是80岁死去
will you die at 80, 还是100岁死去
or will you die at 100? 在我看来  如果没有不可预测性
It seems to me that if it weren't for the unpredictability, 对死亡的恐惧就毫无意义
fear of death wouldn't make any sense at all. 但是因为死亡确实不可预测
Given that we do have unpredictability, 所以对死亡有些恐惧是合理的
some fear of death might make sense; 虽然我们仍要搞清
although again it's important to be clear about 我们害怕的到底是什么
what it is that it makes sense to be afraid of. 它不是死亡本身
It's not being dead per se. 我坚持我的观点  死亡本身
I remain of the opinion that being dead per se 不是一件应该害怕的事情
is not the sort of thing it makes sense to be afraid of, 如果你断定死亡就是终点
once you've concluded that death is the end. 唯一你有理由害怕的事情就是
The only thing that it might make some sense to be afraid of 你可能死得太早
is that you might die too soon-- 太早而不是太晚
earlier rather than later. 当然  了解这一点以后
Of course, having noted that point, 我们需要问一下
we then have to ask, 多大的恐惧是适度的
well how much fear is appropriate? 有多大的可能性你会死得太早
How great is the chance that you'll die too soon? 你的恐惧要和这种可能性成比例
Your fear needs to be proportioned to the likelihood. 你明年死的可能性有多大
How likely is it that you will die in the next year, 或者五年以后  十年  二十年以后
or five years, or for that matter 10 or 20 years? 事实是对大多数同学来说
The fact of the matter is for most of you, 或者对全部同学来说
almost all of you, 这种可能性非常小
the chances are very unlikely indeed; 不是说可以忽略不计
not quite negligible, 但确实很小
but rather small. 一个20岁左右的健康人
For a healthy 20-year-old, for example, 过五年或者十年就死的可能性微乎其微
the chances of dying in the next five or ten years are extremely small, 这种情况下
in which case 或许会有些小小的不安
even if some slight fear might be called for, 但不需要很害怕
no significant amount of fear seems called for. 所以  如果有人告诉我
So, if somebody were to say to me, 看  死亡如此可怕
"Look, the facts about death are so overwhelming 所以我怕得要死
that I'm terrified of death," 我会说  我不是不相信你
all I can say in response is not, that I don't believe you, 而是  如此畏惧死亡
but for all that it seems to me terror of death 不是一种适度的反应
is not an appropriate response. 在这种情况下不合理
It doesn't make sense given the facts. 这样说并不意味着
Now, having said that, that doesn't mean that 不能有一些其它的情绪
there may not be some other emotion, 其它恰如其分的负面情绪
some other negative emotion that is appropriate. 惧怕死亡  在我看来
Fear of death strikes me as, 很多时候都过分了
for the most part, overblown; 它很普遍
it's widespread, I suppose, 但大多时候都不恰当
but for the most part inappropriate. 但这不意味着  像我前面假设过的
But that doesn't mean that--As I suggested before in 在一些例子里说过的
working through some of these examples, 有时愤怒是合理的
sometimes anger makes sense; 有时怨恨  悲伤  遗憾  沮丧
sometimes resentment makes sense; sorrow, regret, sadness, 是合理的
that may make sense. 所以  我论证了大多数对死亡的恐惧
So, in having argued that for the most part fear of death 都是不合理的
does not make sense, 但我并未给出理由
I haven't yet given us any reason 证明其它情绪
to think that there might not be other emotions, 其它的负面情绪是合理的
negative emotions, that do make sense. 让我们问一下
So let's ask. 还可能有什么其它的情绪
What about some of those other possible emotions? 其它的负面情绪  如果有的话
What negative emotion, if any, 是我们面对死亡本身
does it make sense to feel about death itself, 合理的情绪反应
the fact that you're going to die? 当然  同样值得注意的是
Well, of course, look, it's also worth bearing in mind, 因为我论证过永生是件坏事
since I've argued that immortality would be bad, 所以你会死去不是件坏事
the fact that you will die is not actually bad. 而是件好事
It's good 因为它使你避免了
because it saves you from the unpleasant aspect 永生带来的永远的乏味和痛苦
of an eternal, dreary, dreadful immortal existence. 不过  我们仍然会说
Still, we might say, 大多数人
most of us, 差不多所有人都死得太早了
almost all of us, die too soon. 那么  这是什么意思呢
So, what about that? 我们还没等到生活给出它可以给出的
We die before life has yielded up all the goods 全部美好事物之前  就死了
that it could have given us. 那么  什么负面情绪是恰当的呢
So what is the appropriate negative emotional response here? 或者有这样的情绪吗
Or is there one? 我认为第二种很自然的想法就是愤怒
I suppose the natural second suggestion is anger. 你可能说  看  也许恐惧不合理
You might say, look, maybe fear isn't right, 不合适  但我会愤怒
isn't appropriate, but anger. I'm angry. 我想对宇宙晃晃拳头
I want to shake my fist at the universe 诅咒它只给我了50年
and curse the universe for giving me only 50 years 或者70年  80年甚至100年的生命
or 70 years or 80 years even 100 years, 而世界如此富饶
when the world is such a rich, 如此美妙  要花上几千年
incredibly fantastic place that it would take thousands of years 甚至更长时间才能尝尽滋味
or longer to exhaust what it has to offer. 所以  愤怒难道不是恰当的反应吗
So, isn't anger an appropriate response? 同样  我认为回答是"不一定"
And again, I think the answer is not so clear that it is, 因为和其它情绪一样
because, like all the other emotions, 愤怒本身需要恰当性条件
anger itself has appropriateness conditions. 为了使愤怒是合理的情绪
In order for anger to make sense, 需要的第一个条件是
well, here's condition number one. 在我看来  愤怒应该是指向人的
It seems to me it's got to be directed at a person, 应该指向肇事者
it's got to be directed at an agent, 应该指向那些有能力选择
it's got to be directed at some thing that had some choice over 发生在你身上事情的人
what it was doing to you. 所以当你同屋  比如说
So, when your roommate, whatever it is, 在你电脑上洒了咖啡
spills coffee on your computer, 把硬盘弄坏了  等等
destroying the hard drive or whatever it is, 因为他们很粗心
because they were careless, 即使你提醒过他们要小心
even though you told them previously to be more careful, 愤怒是合理的
anger makes sense. 它指向你的同屋  一个人
It's directed at your roommate, who's a person, 他有一定的能力控制他做的事情
who had some control over what they were doing. 你的同屋是始作俑者
Your roommate's an agent. 如果你对我很愤怒
If you want to get angry at me 因为我没给你好成绩  那么
for the grades that you receive in this class, well, 至少满足第一个条件
at least condition number one makes sense; 你的愤怒指向肇事者
you're directing your anger at an agent, 指向有能力控制
at an individual person who has some control 我如何行动  他如何行动的人
over how I behave, how they behave. 第二个条件
Condition number two, 这个条件不是所有负面情绪都要满足
I suppose--this may not be all the conditions, 但至少第二个条件是
but at least a second one is-- 愤怒只有在
anger makes sense when, and only when, 肇事者对你做了错事以后  才成立
the agent has wronged you, 他对你做了些
has treated you in a way 道德上不恰当的事情
that it was morally inappropriate for them to treat you. 如果你同屋做了些
If your roommate has been 你不喜欢的事情
doing things that you don't like, 但不是什么错事
but they haven't done anything wrong, 愤怒也不合理
anger doesn't make sense. 当你对他们发火  你是在表明
When you are angry at them, you are revealing the fact 他们没有善待你
that you think they've mistreated you. 没有善待意味着
Mistreatment requires the notion of 他们对你做的事情
they've behaved toward you 违反道德
in a way that morally they shouldn't. 好了  这就是我认为的两个条件
All right, these strike me as two conditions that need to be 要满足它们  愤怒才合理
in place in order for anger to be an appropriate emotional response. 当然  我们在其它情况下无疑也会愤怒
Of course, again, we no doubt feel anger in other cases, 尽管通常
although typically 我们对无生命的东西发火
when we're angry at inanimate objects 是因为我们把它们拟人化了
it's because we've personified them. 你该交作业了  你冲出教室
Your paper is due, you're rushing off to class, 你想把它打印出来  但你电脑坏了
you're about to print it out, and your computer crashes, 于是你对电脑发火
and you get angry at the computer. 我认为  这时发生的事是
Well, what's going on there, I suppose, 你把电脑拟人化了
is you've personified the computer. 你犯了常见的错误
You have fallen into the trap, 可以理解  很平常
understandable, natural, 你把电脑看成人了
of viewing the computer as though it was a person 故意在这个时候坏掉
who had deliberately chosen to fail right now, 让你交不上作业
letting you down yet again. 我理解这类行为
And I understand this sort of behavior; 也做类似的事情
I do this sort of thing as well. 但当你事后一想
But of course you can step back. 至少  当你平静下来
At least, once your anger has subsided, 转念一想  看
you can step back and say, look, 对电脑发火
getting angry at your computer 实在没有意义
doesn't really make sense, 因为你的电脑不是人
because your computer is not a person; 你的电脑不是肇事者
your computer is not an agent; 你的电脑没任何选择
your computer didn't have any choice 控制不了任何事情
or control. 假设
Suppose that-- 根据那两个条件  我们问一下
take those two conditions and now ask ourselves, 我们对自己必将死去
does it make sense then to be angry at 感到愤怒是合理的吗
the fact that we're going to die? 我认为答案会是
And I suppose the answer is going to be, 看  你认为谁或者什么
well, look, who is it, or what is it that you think is 造成了你难逃一死
the cause of our mortality, 或者造成了我们只能活50或者80岁
or the fact that we only get our 50 or 80 years? 大致的  粗略的看来  有两种选择
Here's two crude, basic alternatives. 你或许相信上帝
You might believe in God, 经典的  有神论的上帝
classic, theistic, conception of God, a kind of 上帝像人一样决定应该做什么
according to which God is a person who makes decisions about what to do. 上帝宣判我们会死
And God has condemned us to death. 这是《创世纪》里描述的
That's what happens in Genesis, 上帝用死亡惩罚亚当和夏娃
God punishes Adam and Eve by making them die. 好的  这是第一个选择
All right, that's picture number one. 第二个选择是
Picture number two is 你认为宇宙是客观的
you just think there's this impersonal universe, 原子在虚空中旋转
atoms swirling in the void, 通过各种方式组合
coming together in various combinations, 但没人在背后操纵
but there's no person behind the scene controlling all of it. 让我们讨论这两种可能性
Let's consider the two possibilities. 第一种可能性
Possibility number one, 上帝  如果你抱有这一观点
God. Well, look, if you've got the God view, 那么至少我们满足了第一个恰当性条件
at least we satisfy the first of our appropriateness conditions. 我们会说 看
We can say, look; 我们会说  我们对上帝发怒
we can say, I'm angry at God 因为他给我们的生命太短暂
for condemning us to a life that's short, 太不够了
that's so inadequate, 而世界却如此丰富多彩
relative to the riches that the world offers us. 这是第一个条件
That's condition number one. 那么第二个条件呢
But what about condition number two? 第二个条件需要的是
Condition number two, after all, requires that 上帝没有善待我们
God has mistreated us 因为他只给了我们50年
in giving us our 50 80年或者100年的生命
or 80 or 100 years. 就是这样吗  上帝做错了什么吗
And is that the case? Has God wronged us? 上帝对我们做了什么不公正的事情吗
Has God treated us in some way that isn't morally justified? 如果不是  那么对上帝的愤怒怨恨
If not, anger at God, resentment of God, 就都没道理了
wouldn't make sense. 假设你的同屋
Suppose your roommate 回到房间  拿了一盒糖果
comes into the suite and has a box of candy, 他给了你一块  你很喜欢
and he gives you a piece of candy, and you enjoy it. 然后他给了你第二块  你很喜欢
And he gives you a second piece of candy and you enjoy it. 然后他给了你第三块  你很喜欢
And he gives you a third piece of candy and you enjoy it. 然后你问他要第四块
And you ask for a fourth piece of candy, 他没给你
and he won't give it you. 他对你做错了什么吗
Has he wronged you? 他对你做了什么不道德的事吗
Has he treated you immorally? 他欠你更多的糖果吗
Does he owe you more candy? 并不清楚他/她是不是欠了你的
It's not clear that he or she does. 但如果不是  你对他发火
But if not, then being angry--again, 当然  我很理解如果你感到愤怒
I would certainly understand it if you got angry, 这是一种很平常的反应
in the sense that it's a perfectly common enough response. 但愤怒是恰当的吗  对你同屋
But is anger an appropriate response to your roommate 先给了你些东西然后又不给了 而发火
for giving you something, and then not giving you more? 我们不能确定这是恰当的反应
It's not clear that it is an appropriate response. 在我看来  恰当的反应不是愤怒
The appropriate response actually seems to me to be, not one of anger, 而是感激
but gratitude. 你同屋根本不欠你任何糖果
Your roommate didn't owe you any candy at all, 他给了你四块糖
and they gave you four pieces, 或者多少块糖
or whatever it was, the number just was. 你可能希望你能得到更多
You might wish you could have more, 没得到更多你可能会沮丧
you might be sad that you can't have more, 但愤怒是不恰当的
but anger doesn't seem appropriate. 就我而言  上帝并不因为
God doesn't, as far as I can see, owe it to us 没给我们更长的生命而亏欠我们
to give us more life than what we get. 那么  假设我们不相信上帝理论
Well, suppose we don't believe in the God theory 而是相信宇宙理论
but the universe theory. 那么  甚至条件一都不满足了
Well then, of course ,even condition number one isn't satisfied. 宇宙不是一个人
The universe is not a person, 不是一个肇事者
is not an agent, 没有选择  不能控制
has no choice and control. 同样的  在我看来  愤怒
And as such, again, it just seems to me that anger then-- 我可以对宇宙晃着拳头并诅咒它
I can lift my fist and curse the universe; 当然  我这样做的时候
of course, what I'm doing then is, 我是把宇宙拟人化了
I'm personifying the universe, 把宇宙看成
treating the universe as 一个做决定的人  他的决定
though it was a person that deliberately decided 使我们过早死去
to make us die too soon. 但不管这种反应多普遍
But however common that response might be, 如果宇宙不是一个人
it makes no sense rationally 这种反应都不合理
if the universe is not a person. 它只是些旋转的原子
It's just atoms swirling, 以各种形式组合
forming various kinds of combinations. 因为我会死或我死得太早而愤怒
Anger at the fact that I'm going to die, or die too soon, 都不合理
doesn't make sense either. 那么  我们会感到悲伤吗
Well, what about sorrow? 或许我只会为
Maybe I should just be sad at the fact 我死得太早而悲伤
that I'm going to die too soon. 我认为有些这类情绪是合理的
And I think some emotion along that line does make sense. 世界是美好的
The world's a wonderful place. 能多活一段时间会更好
It would be better to have more of it. 我很遗憾我不能活得更久
I'm sad that I don't get more, 不能活得更长
that I'm not going to get more. 但我这样想的时候
But having had that thought, 我马上发现我有了另一个想法
I immediately find myself with another thought. 虽然我不能活得更久让人遗憾
Although it's a pity I don't get more, 但我已经非常幸运
I'm extremely lucky 能够得到这么多东西了
to have gotten as much as I get. 整个宇宙只是一堆旋转的原子
The universe is just this swirling mass of atoms, 组成各种各样不同的东西  然后消融
forming clumps of various kinds of things, and dissolving. 大多数原子
Most of those atoms 根本没有过生命
don't get to be alive at all. 大多数原子没有成为人
Most of those atoms don't get to be a person, 没有谈过恋爱
falling in love, 看过落日
seeing sunsets, 吃过冰淇淋
eating ice cream. 我们非常幸运
It's extraordinarily lucky 能在这个幸运儿的小圈子里
of us to be in this select, fortunate few. 让我用一段表达了
Let me close then 这一思想的段落来结束这堂课
with an expression of this thought. 这段话来自库尔特·冯内古特的
This is from Kurt Vonnegut's book, 《猫的摇篮》
Cat's Cradle. 这段话是书中一个人物的
This is a kind of prayer that one of the characters in the novel says- 临终祷告
-is supposed to say--at the deathbed. 上帝制作了泥人  上帝烦了
God made mud. God got lonesome. 所以上帝对一些泥人说  站起来
So God said to some of the mud, "Sit up." 上帝说  看我创造的一切
"See all I've made," Said God. 高山  大海  天空  星辰
"The hills, the sea, the sky, the stars." 我就是那种坐起来环顾四周的泥人
And I, with some of the mud, had got to sit up and look around. 幸福的我  幸福的泥人
Lucky me, lucky mud. 我  一个泥人坐了起来
I, mud, sat up 看见了上帝创造的奇迹
and saw what a nice job God had done. 你太棒了  上帝
Nice going God! 世界上只有您上帝才能做到这一切
Nobody but you could have done it God! 我当然不能
I certainly couldn't have. 和您相比  我感到自己十分渺小
I feel very unimportant compared to You. 一想到还有许多泥人
The only way I can feel the least bit important 未能坐起来环顾四周
is to think of all the mud 我便感到自己还有一点重要
that didn't even get to sit up and look around. 我已经得到这么多
I got so much, 而大多数泥人却一无所获
and most mud got so little. 感谢您的垂顾
Thank you for the honor! 现在泥人又躺下睡了
Now mud lies down again and goes to sleep. 泥人有多少值得回忆的事啊
What memories for mud to have! 我曾和多少有趣的坐起来的泥人
What interesting other kinds of sitting-up mud 见过面啊
I met! 我爱我看见过的一切
I loved everything I saw . 在我看来  正确的情绪不应该是恐惧
It seems to me that the right emotional response isn't fear, 不应该是愤怒
it isn't anger, 而应该感激我们能够拥有生命
it's gratitude that we're able to be alive at all. 



 Chapter 22: 如何面对死亡


上节课结束前
At the end of last class, 我引用了库尔特·冯内古特的一段话
I quoted some words from Kurt Vonnegut, 这段话类似临终祷告
a kind of deathbed prayer confession 取自他的一本小说
that he'd written in one of his novels 祷告的基本主旨
in which the basic gist of the prayer 是表达感激之情
is to express gratitude. 不管你生活的如何
Whatever the content of your life, 至少你曾经生活过
the fact that at least you've been able to live at all 就像他所说的
--As he put it, 并不是所有泥人都能坐起来
most mud isn't lucky enough to sit up. 他作为能坐起来的泥人感到幸运
He feels lucky to have been some of the sitting-up mud. 他热爱他所见到的一切
He loved everything he saw. 当我读这段话时
When I read that quote, 我并不知道库尔特·冯内古特
I did not know that Kurt Vonnegut 刚刚在前一晚去世
had died the night before. 就在课后
Immediately after the class ended, 有位听课者告诉了我这件事
a visitor to the class brought this fact to my attention. 所以  我很想对他的逝世说句话
So, I can't pass without commenting on that death, 我希望
and just remark that I hope that 库尔特·冯内古特  在他临终之时
to the very end, Kurt Vonnegut, 这位活到84岁的老人
who lived until he was 84, 能够为他成为
realized how lucky he was to be 坐起来的泥人而感到幸运
some of the sitting-up mud. 我们下面要探讨的问题是
The question I want to turn to now is this. 我们已经研究了很多
So, we've been going over the various facts 生命和死亡的本质
about the nature of life and death. 那么问题是  既然我们将会死去
And the question then is, how should we live, 我们应该如何生活
in light of the fact that we're going to die? 前面  我们讨论了
Previously, we've talked about 对待死亡应持何种态度
what emotional response we should have to that. 我论述了
And I've argued, 正如我刚刚提到的
as I just reminded us, 虽然面对死亡最常见的反应是
that although perhaps the most common reaction is 害怕或恐惧
one of fear or terror at death, 但事实上我们应该心存感激
it may in fact be that we should be grateful 应该把自己当成幸运儿
and consider ourselves lucky that 因为我们曾经生活过
we were able to have had life as well--life at all. 但是  因为我们必将死去
But how, then, should we live 我们又该如何生活呢
in light of the fact that we're going to die? 最直接的回答
And the immediate answer that comes to mind 听上去像是个玩笑
seems almost like a joke. 我想说  既然我们将会死去
I want to say, well, we should be careful, 所以我们应该多加小心
given that we can die, that we will die. 曾经有个电视节目
There used to be a TV show, 肥皂剧  叫做《希尔街警察》
a cop show called Hill Street Blues. 每天节目开始时都会有一个警官
The show began every day with the sergeant 将今天要发生的
going over the various crimes and investigations 案件及调查评点一遍
that were going to fill up the day's episode. 在结束时  他派出警员
And he'd always end, as he sent off his police, the cops. 并说  小心些
He'd end by saying, "Be careful" 或者  注意安全
Or "Be careful out there." 但我说的小心谨慎
But the particular kind of care that I have in mind 并不这么简单
isn't just this pure fact, 如果你不留神
that if you're not careful, 你可能没注意到路上来车
you won't notice that the car's coming down the street 可能会被撞身亡
and you'll hit by the car and that'll be the end. 我说的是  我们必有一死
The fact that we're going to die 要求我们加些特别的小心
intuitively seems to require a particular kind of care, 因为  这么说吧
because, as we might put it, 你只能活一次  对吧
you only go around once, right? 你不可能活第二次
You don't get to do it again. 因此  我们终有一死
And so, it seems as though the fact that we're mortal, 我们寿命有限
the fact that we've got a finite lifespan, 要求我们面对这种可能
requires us to face the fact that 我们会搞砸生活
intuitively we can blow it. 我们可能荒废一生
We could do it wrong. 严格来说  我想指出
Now, the nit-picky part of me wants to point out 并不是生命有限
that it can't be mortality, per se, 所以我们才可能虚度光阴
that has this implication. 即使我们是永生的
Even if we lived forever, 我们仍可能荒废生命
we could still do it wrong. 毕竟  不管你如何度过
After all, whatever it is you've filled your life with, 你漫长无限的一生
with an immortal infinite life, 你仍然需要生活在某种
there's still going to be the particular pattern of 行为和活动模式中
actions and activities that you engage in. 而这种生活模式仍然有可能
And that particular pattern could still be one 不是你可以拥有的最好的生活模式
that wasn't the best pattern that was available to you. 因此  搞砸生活
So, the possibility of having blown it, 虚度光阴
of having lived the wrong kind of life, 仍有可能发生
is a possibility that's going to be true of us, 不管我们的生命是否有限
whether or not we're mortal. 然而  尽管如此
And yet, for all that, 有限的生命增加了额外的风险
it seems as though mortality adds an extra risk, 搞砸生活的额外风险
an extra danger of blowing it. 假设我们可以永生
Look, suppose we lived forever 假设一个最简单的例子
and just have a kind of simplistic example. 比方说  有人用他无限的生命
You might say, imagine somebody who spends his eternity 数整数  一二三四五六
counting the integers--1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. 这可能没有用无限的生命
Well, that might not be as valuable as 做其它事那么有价值
an eternity spent doing something else, 比方说  做更复杂的数学研究
let's say, doing more complicated math. 然而
But still, 如果你花了上万年
if you've spent a million years 或者上亿年数这些整数
or a billion years counting the integers 并最终意识到这是无意义的
and then realized that was sort of pointless, 你总是可以重新开始做更有趣的
you could always start over by doing more interesting, 更深入的  更有价值的数学研究
more deep, more worthwhile math. 永生给了你重新来过的机会
The immortality gives you a chance of starting over. 给了你从头再来的可能
It gives you the possibility of do-overs. 我们这时可能觉得
We might then worry that 死亡特别可恨
what's especially bad about death, 因为我们生命有限
the fact that we're mortal, 所以死亡夺走了我们重新开始的机会
is that it robs us of the chance of do-overs. 但是当然  这也不完全正确
But of course, that's not quite right either. 即使你无法永生
Even if you don't live forever, 你活了80岁或100岁
you live 80 years or 100 years, 你仍然可以在你20岁  30岁
you have the chance to reappraise your life 或50岁时  重新审视人生
at the age of 20 or 30 or 50 并换一种生活方式
and decide you need to change course. 所以  丧失重新来过的机会
So, it's not exactly as though the possibility of do-overs disappears 并不仅仅因为死亡本身
by death itself, 不是死亡本身造成的
via death itself. 但是  死亡来临
Still, the thought that death comes 一切就都结束了
when it does 使我们更加意识到
seems to push us in the direction of thinking 我们要非常小心  因为
we've still got to be very careful because, 我们生命有限
of course, given that we're mortal, 我们仅有有限的时间
we have only a limited period of time 重新来过
in which to do the do-overs. 有两种错误
There are two kinds of mistakes, 我们需要避免
really, that we might catch ourselves in. 我们可能发现
We might discover, 一方面
on the one hand, 我们会做出错误的选择
that we made some bad choices 错误地设定了目标
in terms of what we were aiming for. 另一方面
And on the other hand, 即使我们
we might find even if we made 设定了正确的目标
the right choices in terms of our goals, 我们也可能无法完成
we flubbed it in terms of actually accomplishing 我们要达到的目标
what we were trying to accomplish. 因此我们只能重新来过
And so we literally have to start over again, 再试一遍
and try again. 所以  我们需要注意两方面的事情
So, there's two kinds of care that we have to take. 我们需要注意目标是否正确
We have to be careful in our aims 我们也要注意完成目标的方式是否正确
and we have to be careful in our execution of our aims, 因为  事实如此
because we have, as it were, 我们只有有限的时间重新来过
a rather limited amount of time to do it over. 再次
Now, again, 如果挑剔些  严格说来
the nitpicky part of me wants to say strictly speaking, 并不是因为我们生命有限
it's not the fact that we are mortal, per se, 所以我们必须特别谨慎
that all by itself means we have to be especially careful. 假如没有多少事值得去做
After all, suppose there just weren't all that many things worth doing. 假如做完它们不是特别复杂
And suppose they weren't all that complicated, 不是特别困难
all that difficult to do well. 假如只有五件事值得做
Suppose there were only five things worth doing. 即使每件事
And even if you couldn't necessarily 你都无法一次做好
do every single one of them right the first time out, 你也最多需要两到三次就能搞定
at most it would take two or three tries. 而且每次尝试也仅需一两个小时
And by a try I mean maybe an hour or two. 当然  这会是一个非常贫乏的世界
Well, that would be a pretty impoverished world 我们只能做这点事情
that could only offer us that much. 但如果世界就是这样
But after all, if that was the way the world worked 而我们有一百年的寿命
and we had a hundred years, 那我们就不需要特别在意
we wouldn't really have to worry all that much 是否要小心谨慎了
about being careful. 我们有足够的时间
We'd have plenty of time 致力于这五件值得做的事
to aim for each of the five things worth having 并且有足够的时间
and plenty of time to get 做完每件事
each one of the five things right. 一百年的时间太长了
A hundred years of life would be more than enough. 我们不需要小心什么
We wouldn't have to be careful. 因此  不是因为生命有限
So, it's not just the fact that we're mortal 所以我们才要小心谨慎
that requires us to be careful. 而是因为
It's the fact that 我们的生命相对有限
we have a relatively short span of life 相对于那些值得做的事情
relative to how much there is worth aiming for, 相对于完成那些事情
and how complicated and difficult it can be 需要克服的困难和障碍
to get those things and get them right. 因为我们有
It's because of the fact that 如此多的事情需要做
there's so much to do 而且需要做好
and doing it properly 所以我们需要非常谨慎
that we have to be careful. 我们没时间四处出击
We just don't have enough time to flail around, 试一试这事  试一试那事
try a little of this, try a little of that. 如此生活的人将发现
Somebody who lives like that may well find 他们做的事
that the things they aimed for 总也不是最佳选择
weren't really the best choices. 你不必去证明
You don't have to decide that 那些事是否值得做
these things weren't worth having at all, 我们时间相对有限
given the relatively short period of time we've got. 我们会有额外的负担去认定
We've got the extra burden of deciding 什么事最值得去做
what are the things most worth going after. 我们必须面对这样的可能
And we have to face the prospect, the chance, 当回首往事时
that we'll look back and 会发现我们没有做出最佳选择
discover that we didn't make the best choices there. 我们设定了错误的目标
We aimed for the wrong things, 并不一定是做了不值得做的事
not necessarily things that weren't worth having, 只是基于有限的时间
but given the limited number of things 我们能做的事情来说
we were going to be able to fill our lives with, 可能是个错误的选择
in that sense, the wrong choices. 我们也可能发现
And we may discover as well that 我们没有足够谨慎地
we were not sufficiently careful, attentive in 选择完成这些事情的方法
how we tried to achieve these things. 虽然我们的生活
Because it's not as though--although given the way life is, 允许我们重新来过
you've got the chance for do-overs, 但我们没有时间全部重新来过
you don't have time for a whole lot of do-overs. 因此  死亡迫使我们去做的
And so what death forces us to do is, 就是更加谨慎
to be careful. 举个例子  比如一位艺术家
An analogy that comes to mind here is an artist 一位音乐家  来到录音棚
who goes--a musician who goes into a recording studio. 他准备开始
And look, he can start trying to 灌制自己的唱盘
record his songs to cut an album. 或许他只需要唱几首歌
And he may only have a certain number of songs in his repertoire. 所以  如果他有足够长的时间
And so if he's got a long enough period of time, 在录音棚里呆一个月
a month in the recording studio, 他/她就有足够的时间
he's got plenty of time, or she's got plenty of time, 唱那几首歌
to sing a couple of songs. 也许这几次唱得都不是最好的
Maybe these wouldn't be the best things to record. 那我们接着试试看
Let's give it a try and we'll see. 第一次没录好
Didn't get it right the first take. 我们就再录一次
Let's record it again. 再录第三次
Let's try it a third time. 再录第四次
Let's try it a fourth time. 如果你有足够的时间
If you've got enough time, 那么在你开始之前或者录制过程中
it's less pressing to get clear before you start, 你就没有很大的压力
or as you're going along, 去考虑我要录制哪首歌
what are the songs I should try to record, 我第一遍能不能录好
and can I get it on one take, 最多录两遍行不行
or at most two? 但如果你在录音棚里不能呆一个月
But if instead of having a month in the recording studio, 你只能呆一周
you've got only a week in the studio, 或者一天
or a day in the studio, 突然间所有事情都急迫起来
suddenly everything's much more pressing. 时间变得宝贵了
Time is much more precious. 你必须尽早决定
You've got to decide early on 录哪首歌最好
just which are the songs that it makes sense to record? 虽然还有其它歌
And yeah, there are some other songs, 但这些歌看来是更好的选择
but these seem to be the better choices. 当你录制它们时
And when you record them, 你不能像以前那样
you can't be as careless and inattentive 漫不经心  随随便便了
as you try to get them down. 你必须尽量一次录好
You've got to try to get it right the first time, 最坏情况  两次也要录完
or at worst, the second time. 在我看来  这就是我们的处境
That's, it seems to me, the situation we find ourselves in, 并不仅仅是因为我们将会死去
not just given the fact that we die, 而是  我们会说
but, we might say, 这么活色生香的世界
given how incredibly rich the world is, 这么多姿多彩的生活
how many things it offers us, 无数值得追求的目标
how many choices we have in terms of what's worth going after. 但这些目标
But for many of these things, 大多难于实现
given how difficult they are to accomplish, 虽然我们有机会重头再来
although we've got the chance for do-overs, 不论我们调整努力的方向
both in terms of changing our mind about what we should be aiming at, 还是努力的方式
and trying again, for the things we have aimed at, 但我们都必须小心谨慎
we've got to be careful. 死亡提醒我们要留意
The fact about our death requires paying attention. 要小心
It requires care. 当然  说到这里
Well, having said that, 马上会碰到的问题是  好了
of course, the immediate question then, is all right, 我加小心了
so I'm paying attention. 我会谨慎的
I'm trying to be careful. 但我应该如何生活呢
What should I do with my life? 我应该怎样度过一生
How shall I--What should I fill it with? 在前面的课程中
We've, previously in the class, 我们讲过  活着本身
talked about the possibility that being alive, per se, 可能就有价值
may have some value. 但不论我们是否同意这个观点
But above and beyond whatever stand we take on that, 毋庸置疑的是
it's certainly also the case that 我们生命的价值同时体现在
part of what adds to the value of our lives 生活的内容上
are the contents of our lives. 所以我们要问
And so we need to ask, well, 我们的生活
what kinds of contents 应该包含什么内容呢
should we try to fill our lives with? 我不会回答这个问题  这个问题
Now, I won't try to answer that. To ask the question, 生活中真正要追求的是什么
what are the things really worth going after in life? 就相当于在问
is to come up to the edge of asking, well, 生活的意义何在
just what is the meaning of life? 什么是真正值得追求的
What's really worth going after? 虽然这是个很重要
And although that is indeed an important, 也许是最重要的问题
perhaps the important question, 但这个问题
it's the question, 我认为  是其它课程的话题
I think, for a different class. 所以  尽管已经触及了这个问题
And so having come close to the edge of that question, 我还是会到此为止
I'm going to now back away from it. 然而
But still, 我们也许可以说
it seems we might say, 从宏观角度
in broad strokes, 我们有两种策略可以选择
there are two different strategies that we could adopt. 大致思考一下
And it's worth at least pausing to 这两种策略还是值得的
think about these two strategies. 第一种策略认为
Strategy number one says 因为你只有
given that you've only got 有限的时间  实际上
a finite amount of time--Actually, 这两种策略的出发点是一样的
the basic underlying thought behind both strategies is just this. 我们没有太多的时间
We haven't got much time. 所以应该尽量充实生活
Pack as much as you can into life. 尽量去做所有想做的事
Pack as much as you can in. 但是有两种不同的策略
But there are two basic strategies about 来实现这一想法
how do you put that idea into practice. 第一种策略说的是
And strategy number one says 由于目标越高  失败的风险就越大
given the dangers of failure if you aim too ambitiously, 所以你应该瞄准一些
you should settle for the kinds of goals 你肯定能完成的目标
that you're virtually guaranteed that you'll accomplish. 享受美食
The pleasures of food, 伙伴  性  冰淇淋
company, sex, ice cream. 有个论文题目就是让你们
One of the paper topics asks you 从哲学上阐述
to reflect on the philosophy, "吃喝玩乐  时不我待"这个观点
"Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow you die." 这就是第一种策略
Well, that's one of the strategies. 我们可能活不到明天
We're going to be dead tomorrow. 所以趁我们还活着
And so while we're here, 就应该尽情享受人生
let's try to pack in as much as we can, 去追求那些
by going for the things that 有很大机会完成的事情
we've got a very high chance of actually accomplishing. 策略二认为  这样也许不错
Strategy number two says that's all well and good. 我们有很大机会完成些事情
You've got a pretty high chance of succeeding at that. 但策略一的问题在于
The trouble with strategy number one is 你获得的那些成就
the goods that you can achieve, 那些肯定能完成的事情都太小了
the sort of sure thing goods are small. 都是些不值一提的事情
They're rather small potatoes, as things go. 生活中最有价值的事情
Some of the most valuable goods in life 大多不会这样轻易得到
are things that don't come so readily, 不会这样如探囊取物一般
don't come with guarantees of achieving them. 你或许想写部小说  谱首交响乐
You might want to write a novel, compose a symphony, 或者结婚建立家庭
or for that matter raise--marry and raise a family. 这一类事情
Some of these things, 策略二的拥护者会说
strat--fans of strategy number two argue, 这才是生活中最有价值的事情
these things are the most valuable things that life can offer us. 生活中包含这些成就
So that a life filled with these larger goods 比包含那些不值一提的小事的生活
is a more valuable life than a life 更有价值
filled with the small potatoes goods. 我估计"吃喝玩乐"的支持者不喜欢
I suppose fans of the "Eat, drink, and be merry" Strategy don't like 把那些称为"不值一提"的小事
to call those "Small potatoes goods," 但很可能
but that's the kind of language that might be 策略二的拥护者就会这样说
offered by fans of strategy number two. 在我看来  要说哪一种生活
And it seems to me that as a claim about which life, 如果你拥有的话
if only you had it, 如果你肯定能拥有的话
if you had a guarantee-- 如果上帝说
If God were going to say, 看  你想要哪种生活
"Look, which life do you want? 我保证你能得到
I promise you'll get it. 是那种吃喝玩乐的生活
The life filled with food and drink 还是那种充满成就的生活
or the life filled with accomplishment?" 估计大多数人都会说
--perhaps most of us would say well, 充满成就的生活
it's the life filled with accomplishment 是更有价值的生活
that's the more valuable life. 但问题是
The trouble, of course, is, 拥有更大成就的生活
the life with the greater accomplishments, 追求更大成就的生活
the life aiming for greater accomplishments, 也是更容易失败的生活
is also a life with a greater chance of failure. 你想写一部伟大的美国小说
You aim for writing the great American novel 十年过去了  你还没写完
and ten years later, you still haven't finished it. 二十年过去了
Twenty years later, 你发现你命中注定
you decide you don't have it in you 写不出来美国最伟大的小说
to write the great American novel. 你尝试经商  但是破产了
You try to produce a business and it goes under. 所以  正确的策略应该是什么
So, what's the right strategy to take? 我估计很多人会说
I suppose many of us would be inclined to say, 还有第三种策略
well, the third strategy. 第三种策略指出
There's a third strategy that's 明显正确的做法是
the obviously right thing to do, 要适当多元化
which is, get the right mixture. 追求一些  怎么说呢
Aim for a certain number of--what should we call them? 高层次的目标
Large potatoes. 追求一些高层次的成就
Aim for a certain number of the large accomplishments, 因为如果你实现了这些目标
because if you do manage to get them, 你的生命将很有价值
your life will have more value. 但同时也要掺杂一些
But also throw in a certain sprinkling of 低层次目标
the smaller things, 这样  你至少保证
where you're at least assured of 你的生活获得了一些成就
having gotten something out of life. 这样的生活确实不错
Well, that's all well and good as well, 但这又引起了下一个问题
but it just now brings us to the next question. 到底多大的比例是合适的
What is the right mixture, after all? 这个问题我仍然不会回答
Well, I'm not going to try to answer that one either. 但是  那些选择
But again, those of you who choose the topic, "吃喝玩乐"这个题目的同学
the "Eat, drink, and be merry" Question, 我希望你们
basically I'm inviting you, 在论文中仔细探讨一下这个问题
in that topic, to reflect on that question. 还有另外一种想法
Here's a different thought. 如我所说  两个策略的背后
The entire, as I said, the underlying thought behind the 追求大目标
go-for-the-big-things, 追求小享受  都是得到某些东西
go-for-the-small-things, was pack it all in. 它们的潜台词是
The underlying thoughts seem to be, 看  只要你的生活
look, as long as you've got a life 含有有价值的内容
that's got valuable contents, 价值越多  就越好
the more, the better. 这两种策略都有同样的内在逻辑
You might say here's common ground between the two strategies-- 越多越好
the more, the better. 前面的课程里
Now previously, 我论证过永生
we've--I've argued that immortality 实际上不是件好事
would not actually be a good thing. 尽管世界丰富多彩
Eventually rich and incredible as the world is, 但最终  生活不再有新内容
eventually, the goods of life would run out 永生就是可怕的
and immortality would be dreadful. 但这样说
But having said that, 并不意味着
that's not to suggest that 我们大多数人能望其项背
we--most of us--come remotely close to that condition. 对大多数人来说
For most of us, it's certainly true that 30岁去世  你失去了
dying at 30 deprives you of goods 如果你能活到40岁
that would have come to you, 可以得到的美好事物
if only you'd lived to 40. 40岁去世  你失去了
And dying at 40 deprives you of goods 如果你能活到50  60或者80岁
that would have come to you 能得到的美好事物
if only you'd lived to 50 or 60 or 80. 所以  我们比较认可的是
So, one thing that we're inclined to agree is, 当其它条件相同
other things being equal, 活得越长越好
the longer your life, the better. 现在  这是一个50岁的人生
So here's a life, 50 years long. 假设你一生
And suppose you live it 以一定的生活品质生活
with a certain amount of value in your life, 100个价值点
100 value points, 不论单位是什么
whatever that is, 用我们衡量幸福的单位
whatever the--however our units of measuring just how good a life is. 我们会说  看  同样的得分
We'd say, look, better to have a life at that value, 活100岁比活50岁要好
instead of going through 50 years, went for 100 years. 很有道理  我们会说
Fair enough. We might say, 我们都同意  是吧
we all agree, don't we, 生命的数量是件好事
that quantity of life's a good thing. 这看起来很有道理
And that does seem plausible. 但我们又要说
But at the same time we'll want to immediately say 尽管生命的数量很重要
quantity of life may matter, 但它不是唯一重要的事情
but it's not the only thing that matters. 生命的质量也很重要
Quality of life matters as well. 这同样简单明了
And again, that point's fairly uncontroversial. 如果你要选择
If you had to choose between your life 50年100分的生活
of 50 years at 100 value points 还是50年
or 50 years 比如说
at whatever that is, 130分的生活
130 value points, 你当然会选第二个生活
you'd rather have the second life. 生命的长度不是我们唯一考虑的事情
The length of life isn't the only thing we care about. 生命的整体质量
The overall quality of your life 也是我们考虑的事情
is something we care about as well. 这同样是我们之前
And this, of course, is another topic 谈过的一个话题
that we've talked about previously. 是什么使得
Just what is it that goes into 一种生活好于另一种生活
making a life better than another? 所以  我们现在看到
So, we now see, 把它们综合起来
summing it up, yeah, 注意质量
got to pay attention to quality, 同时注意数量
got to pay attention to quantity 或者说持续时间
or duration. 我刚才换了种说法
Of course, the reason I just corrected myself 是因为  你看
is because you might say, 如果我们从数学上考虑
if you want to think about it mathematically, 所有问题都是数量问题
it all is just a matter of quantity. 所以当我们计算数量时
As long as when we measure quantity, 我们不仅要考虑生命的长度
we bear in mind we need to measure not just the length of the life, 还要考虑生命的质量
but the height of the box. 所以这个方形面积是
So, the area of the box here 50乘100个单位
is 50 x 100 units, 所以是5000个单位
so whatever that is, that's 5,000. 我又要吹毛求疵了
I'm going to get another giggle here, right. 想一下这个单位
Imagine our little units. 它是质量单位
It's a quality, 一年里的生活品质
one unit of quantity--one unit of quality for a year. 所以  这个单位是每年的质量
So, it's a quality year unit, 反正是5000个单位
whatever it is, 5,000 units. 这里是6500个单位
Here 6,500. 你可能会说  看
You might say, look, 我们可以综合
we can capture the thought that 生命长度的重要性
the duration of your life matters, 和生命质量的重要性
the quality of your life matters, 把它们乘起来就行了
by multiplying the two together. 不用对这些数字斤斤计较
And without getting hung up on the numbers, 它们不是精确的度量
as though there was any kind of precision here, 但它们的内在逻辑很清楚
the underlying thought's fairly clear. 这个方形面积代表了
The area of the box represents 全部的生命质量
the overall quality-- 全部的数量
the overall quantity 它代表了你这50年可能获得的
that you managed to cram into your life 全部收获
in your 50 years. 现在我们可以开始衡量不同的人生
And we could start measuring different kinds of lives. 你可能开始考虑  看
We might start worrying about well, look, 假如我可以活50岁  每年130分
suppose I could live 50 years at 130 或者活100岁
or I could live, whatever it is, 100 years 质量数字稍小一点
at some other number that's a little bit less. 我们会说
We might say, 质量低一点  但时间长一点
oh, less quality, but longer quantity, 持续时间更长
longer duration, 后面这个生活里
more valuable life 包括更多有价值的内容
filled in that last box. 它的原理就是这样
We see how it goes. 但我们要问
But the question we need to ask is--so, 如果我们扩展数量概念的内涵
if we've got this more rich sense of quantity, 把生命长度和
where we multiply the duration of the life times 生命质量的乘积作为对象
the how good a life you're having while you've got it, 这样就能衡量
does that give adequate place 生命的价值了吗
to what we think is valuable? 这样就能描述生活的品质了吗
Does that give adequate place to quality in life? 让我再画几个不同的生活
Let me draw some different boxes, 让我们从中选择
some different possible lives to choose between. 假设这是个快乐长寿的人生
Suppose you had a nice long life, 150岁
150 years. 为了使例子更形象
Again, just for the sake of concreteness, 假设生活质量是50分
we assign 50 quality points. 那么这个面积是7500
So, the area is 7,500. 假设
Let's suppose, 为了让你们有些概念
so you can get a feel for this, 假设到目前为止  最好的人生
let's suppose that the best life lived on earth so far 也就能打10分
was worth a 10. 那么50分是个不可思议的生活
So this is an incredible life, to be a 50. 而且你活了150岁
And you get it for 150 years. 非常幸福的一生
A very nice life. 现在  把它和这种生活比较
Now, compare it with this life. 假设这种生活
Suppose that this life 在各个时期都
isn't really all that good in terms of 没那么好
how well off you are at any given time. 都是正1
It's plus one. 零的意思是这种生活不值得过
Zero would be a life not worth having, 尽管没比不存在更差
though no worse than nonexistence. 负数的意思是  过这种生活
Negative numbers would be lives presumably 你还不如死了好
that would be you're better off dead. 这个生活仅仅是值得过下去
This life is just barely worth having. 它是正1
It's plus one. 但这是个很长很长的生命
But it's a very, very, very long life, 长到我画不下来
so long that I couldn't draw it to scale. 所以我在中间用省略号代替
That's why we've got the "..." In the middle. 假设它持续了3万年
Suppose it goes on for 30,000 years. 数学计算很简单
Well, the math here is pretty easy. 面积是  3万乘1是三万
30,000 times one is 30,000 in terms of the area. 好的
Okay. 所以  你可以在两种生活中挑选
So, trying to choose between these two lives. 选择A还是B
Life A or Life B? 从数量的角度看
In terms of quantity, 广义的数量概念
our enriched notion of quantity, 就是用生命长度
where you measure the length of the life 乘以生命质量
times the height of the box, 生活B得到的数量更大
Life B's got more quantity of what matters-- 3万比7500
30,000 versus 7,500. 但是  大多数人
And yet, most of us, 当我们选择的时候
when we think about this choice, 不会认为B
do not find B 是一个更好的生活
to be a preferable life, 尽管(它有更多的)数量
even though the quantity of value-- 不妨假设我们可以计算出
Just suppose we could measure 价值的数量
quantity of whatever the goods are 我们生活中包含了多少价值
that we've got crammed into our life. 但是  这样非常非常小的数量
Well, this has very, very, very small amounts 延伸非常长的时间
stretched over a very long time. 数量确实大了
The quantity's larger, 但A更吸引人
but Life A seems preferable. 当然不是所有人都认同这点
Now, for any--at least, this may not be true for everybody, 但是对那些认同这点的同学来讲
but for those of us who share that thought, 你会说数量不说明全部问题
you might say quantity isn't all it's about. 或者说当我们考虑生活质量以后
Or when we try to take quality into account, 问题不在于我们无法度量它
it wasn't so much that we couldn't measure it, 而在于
it's that 如果我们降低质量的重要性
if you reduce the importance of quality 只把它折算成数量
into, fold it into quantity, 那么我们得到的
so that what it's all about is 只是一个总体数量
the total amount that you're getting, B的总体数量比A大
well the total amount's bigger in B than A. 但如果你不认可B是更好的生活
If you don't think B's a better life, 这就是说  总体数量不说明全部问题
that suggests that totals aren't what it's all about. 那么我们在A和B之间
Well, what else might we then 还有什么其它可选择的
choose between with regard to A and B? 一个很合理的回答是说
Well, the natural response is to say, 即使A的时间较短
even though Life A is shorter, 但它达到过峰值
it attains a kind of peak, 它达到的高度
a kind of height that 在B里没有任何时候达到过
isn't approached anyplace in Life B. 或许
And perhaps, then, 在评价各种生活
in evaluating lives 和在不同生活间选择时
and choosing between rival lives, 我们不能只关注价值的数量
we can't just look for the quantity of good, 我们也要关注它的峰值
we have to look at the peaks. 要关注它达到的高度
We have to look at the heights. 在不同生活间选择的时
In choosing between lives, 不光要考虑
it's important to think not just about 你总共得到了多少东西
how much did you pack in, total, 而且要考虑你获得或者完成的
but what were the greatest goods 最大的成就是什么
that you had or accomplished in your life? 也许我们能推论出
And perhaps, then, we should conclude, 质量胜过数量
quality can trump quantity. 如果有质量上的明显差别
Perhaps with the right quality in place, 数量的重要性就退居二线了
quantity becomes of secondary importance. 当然  如果我们有更长的生命
Yeah, it might be that if we could have a longer life 而且我们获得了很大的成就
where we achieved great things, 比起较短的获得很大成就的生命
rather than a shorter life where we achieved great things, 更长的生命更好
better to have the longer life. 所以数量也重要
Quantity might matter, too, 只要我们认可质量是最重要的
as long as we think the quality's what matters the most. 但这种理论更彻底的版本指出
But a more radical version of the theory would say, 实际上  质量是唯一重要的
actually, quality's all that matters. 人生的峰值是唯一重要的
The peaks are all that matter. 荷尔德林在他的诗歌
That, at any rate, is the position that gets expressed by Hlderlin 《致命运三女神》里表达了这一观点
in the poem "To the Parcae," to the fates. 这篇文章我让你们看过
That was in one of the essays that I had you read. 但我现在再读一遍
But let me read that now. 致命运三女神
"To the Parcae." 万能的女神们  请假我一个夏季
A single summer grant me, great powers, 一个秋季  让我的诗歌成熟
and a single autumn for fully ripened song 那么  我的心儿  满足于
that, sated with the sweetness of my playing, 这甘美的游戏  就乐愿死去
my heart may more willingly die. 这颗心灵  在生时不能获得它那
The soul that, living, did not attain its 高贵的权利  死后也不会安宁
divine right cannot repose in the nether world. 可是  有一天  这神圣的事业
But once what I am bent on, what is holy, 深藏在我心中的诗歌获得完成
my poetry is accomplished: 那么  冥府的沉寂  欢迎你来吧
Be welcome then, stillness of the shadows' world! 我将会满足  即使我的乐器
I shall be satisfied though my lyre will not 没有伴我同住
accompany me down there. 我只要有一天过着神的生活
Once I lived like the gods, 我就更无他求
and more is not needed. 荷尔德林说的是  他根本不关心数量
Hlderlin is saying he doesn't care about quantity at all. 如果他能实现一些伟大的成就
If he can accomplish something great, 如果他能攀上顶峰
if he can ascend to the heights 写出伟大的诗作
and do something great with his poetry, 那就足够了
that's enough. 只要有一天他过着神的生活
Once he's lived like the gods, 他就更无他求
more is not needed. 所以  当我们思考如何度过一生时
So, in thinking about what we want to do with our lives, 只有我们前面几周探讨过的
it's not enough to have the kind of theory 那些理论是不够的
that we've begun to sketch in previous weeks, 那时我们探讨了
where we think about what are 生活中值得拥有的是什么
the various things worth having in a life? 同样  我们也要解决
we also have to address this question 质量和数量的问题
of quality versus quantity. 质量只是在折算成
Is quality only important insofar as 更多的价值数量时才重要
it gets folded into producing greater quantity? 还是质量本身就重要
Or does quality matter in its own right 本身就值得追求
as something that's worth going for, 即使这时价值数量较少
even when it means a smaller quantity? 而且  如果质量很重要
And if quality does matter, 那么数量重要吗
does quantity matter as well? 还是质量是唯一重要的
Or is, indeed, quality all that matters? 是像荷尔德林说的
Is Hlderlin right when he says 只要他过一天神的生活
once I've lived like the gods, 就别无所求吗
more is not needed? 我估计荷尔德林之所以认为
Now, Hlderlin, I imagine, in thinking about 那种生活是他渴望的最好生活
why that kind of life is the best kind of life he could aspire to, 是因为  部分是因为
is thinking, in part, 他诗作产生的持久影响
about the lasting contribution that his poetry makes. 当我们想到
There's a sense in which, 完成了这样一些事情时
when we think about having done things like that, 我们会发现
we feel that we 我们借此获得某种意义上的永生
attain a kind of immortality. 我们通过自己的作品活着
We live on through our works. 所以我们要探讨的下一个问题是
And so the next question I want to turn to 在那些因为我们寿命有限
in thinking about strategies of how to live in light of the fact of, 所以我们该如何生活的策略当中
in terms of facing our mortality is, well, 某种意义上的永生是不是一种策略
maybe a kind of immortality is worth going after. 或者  至少
Or maybe, at the very least, 某种意义上的永生
we can take a kind of comfort in thinking that 能否使我们得到些安慰
we have or can attain a kind of immortality. 我一直在强调"某种意义上"
I emphasize the word "Kind," Of course, 因为严格来说
because strictly speaking, 如果你通过你的作品活着
if you live on through your works, 你并不是真的活着
it's not as though you are literally living on. 这是一种准永生  类永生
It's semi-immortality or quasi-immortality. 不相信这种永生的人
I suppose people who don't believe in it 可以把它叫成伪永生
would prefer to call it pseudo-immortality. 实际上  这让我想到了个笑话
Actually, this reminds me of a joke. 是伍迪·艾伦说的
Here's a Woody Allen joke. 我不想通过我的作品活着
"I don't want to be immortal through my work; 我想通过不死活着
I want to be immortal through not dying." 那么  如你们所知
Well, as you know, 前面我论证过真正的永生
previously I've argued that genuine immortality, 没完没了的生命  不是件好事
unending life, would not be a good thing. 但是  很多人仍然期望
But still, many of us aspire to 这种准永生
this kind of semi-immortality. 实际上  我认为
And actually, it can take, 这也可以分成两种粗略的形式
I think again, two broad forms. 有时人们会说
Sometimes people want to say there's a sense in which, 尽管你不是真的活了下来
although it's not as though you're literally living on, 但有些近似的东西
there's something like that going on, 比如你的一部分活了下来
insofar as a part of you continues. 如果我有孩子
If I have children, 那么就会有一些  以我来讲
then literally some of my--in my case, 是个男性  我的一些基因流传下去
there's a male--one of my cells continues. 然后他们的基因传给他们的孩子
And then their cells continue in their children 然后他们的基因传给他们的孩子
and their cells continue in their children. 如果你想象一只变形虫分裂又分裂
If you think of an amoeba splitting and splitting, 分裂又分裂
and splitting and splitting again, 原始变形虫的某些部分会延续
part of the original amoeba could be there for 很多很多代
many, many, many generations. 有些人从这种想法中获得安慰
Some people take comfort in the thought that, 不管怎么说  他们的一部分活了下来
literally speaking, a part of them will continue, 如果不是通过子女遗传
if not through cells through my offspring, 至少我身上的原子循环再利用了
perhaps at least my atoms get recycled, get used again. 尽管我消散在宇宙里
And so I get absorbed into the universe, 但我从未消失
but I never disappear. 有些人从这一想法中得到安慰
Some people take comfort in that thought. 德国哲学家叔本华
The German philosopher Schopenhauer 认为这种想法
thought that this should 可以减轻死亡的煎熬
reduce somewhat the sting of death. 他说  有人可能会问
He said, "But it will be asked, 怎么能把微不足道的尘土
how is the permanence of mere dust, 天然粗糙的顽石  当做是
of crude matter, to be regarded as 我们万物之灵的延续
a continuance of our true inner nature?' 他回答说
" And he answers, 哦  你认识这些灰尘吗
Oh! Do you know this dust then? 你知道它是什么  它能做什么吗
Do you know what it is and what it can do? 在你鄙视它之前先去了解它吧
Learn to know it before you despise it. 看似不起眼的尘土  灰尘
This matter, now lying there as dust and ashes, 溶于水就会结晶
will soon form into crystals when dissolved in water. 它将像金属般闪耀
It will shine as metal; 发射出电子火花
it will then emit electric sparks? 它会自己选择
It will, indeed, of its own accord, 成为植物或者动物
form itself into plant and animal; 在它神秘的子宫中
and from its mysterious womb 孕育出新的生命
it will develop that life, 你自己那点斤斤计较  相比之下
about the loss of which you in your narrowness of mind 太神经质  太焦虑了
are so nervous and anxious. 这是段很动人的文字
Well, that's a very moving passage, 但我必须说  我并不认可
but I have to say, I don't buy it. 我没获得任何安慰
I don't find any comfort at all 当想到我的原子还会活下去
in the thought that my atoms will still be around 还在其它地方接着起作用
getting reused into something else. 所以  第一种类型的准永生
So, this first kind of semi-immortality, 想到你的一部分会继续存在
where you take comfort in the thought that 你由此获得安慰
literally there are parts of you that will continue, 在我看来是种绝望的挣扎
this strikes me as a kind of desperate striving, 最后的一根救命稻草
desperate reaching for straws. 也许叔本华可以
Perhaps in Schopenhauer's case, 自欺欺人地认为
leading him to delude himself into thinking, 哦  我死去也没那么糟糕
"Oh, it's not so bad that I'm going to die 很快死去也没什么大不了
and going to die soon. 至少我的原子还将存在
At least my atoms will still be around." 这个想法我不认可
It doesn't work for me. 还有第二种思路
There's a second sort of approach, though, 虽然想象你的一部分
where it's not so much that you're supposed to be comforted by 在你死后延续下来  不能给你安慰
the thought that your parts will continue to last after you, 但你的成就
but that your accomplishments 在你死后会延续下来
will continue to last after you. 荷尔德林写的诗
Hlderlin writes poetry, 我们在二百年后还在读
which we're still reading some 200 years later. 你可以写一部小说
You can write a novel which can be read 20  50  100年后还有人读
for 20 or 50 or 100 or more years. 你可以在
You might make some contribution 数学  哲学或者科学上作出贡献
to math or philosophy or science, 50或者100年以后
and 50 or 100 years later, 人们仍然在谈论
people could still be talking about 那些哲学观点或者数学成就
that philosophical argument or that mathematical result. 你还可能获得其它成就
You might have other kinds of accomplishments. 你建筑的房屋
You might build a building 在你死后依然矗立
that will last after you. 石匠
Stone cutters, 我读过一篇采访石匠的文章
I've read interviews with stone cutters 他们很自豪也很宽慰  当想到
who take a kind of pride and comfort in the thought 他们死后很长时间内
that long after they're gone, 他们建起的房屋依然会在那里
the buildings that they helped build will still be there. 你可能会创建一家公司
You might try to build a company 在你死后仍然存在
that will last after you die. 或者说
Or, for that matter, 你可能建立一个家庭
you might take pleasure and comfort 由此感到幸福和安心
in the accomplishment of having raised a family. 这里的想法不是
Here, not so much the thought that 你的一些基因会传给你的后代
some of your cells are in your offspring, 而是
but rather the thought that 你培养了一位正直的公民
to have raised another decent human being 是件了不起的成就
is a nontrivial accomplishment, 你生活中值得做的事情
something worth having done with your life. 这份成就在你死后仍然存在
And that accomplishment continues after you're gone. 那么  我们该如何看待这第二种
Well, what should we think about this second group 获得准永生的方法
of approaches to attaining semi-immortality? 当我想到这点时  我有些左右为难
I've got to say that I'm of two minds when I think about them. 和那些尘土或者原子的说法不同
Unlike the dust and the atoms stuff, 那些说法只是自欺欺人
where I just think you're deluding yourself, 我发现我比较认可
I find myself drawn to 第二种想法
this second set of thoughts. 我发现自己被这种想法吸引
I find myself tempted by the thought that 有些值得去做的事
there's something worth doing 就是去创造能持续一段时间的东西
about producing something that continues for a while. 创造意义重大的东西
That it's significant. 即使我在地球上的生命短暂
And even if my life here on earth is a short one, 如果我的成就能流传下去
if something that I've accomplished continues, 我的生命也会因此更有价值
my life is the better for it. 我估计这就是荷尔德林的想法
That's Hlderlin's thought, I suppose. 这个想法吸引我
And it's a view that appeals to me. 我想它部分解释了
I suppose it explains, in part, 为什么我要著书立说
why I write philosophy, 我希望我写的东西
in the hopes that the things I write 在我死后20年还会有人读
might still be read 20 years after I die, 或者50年
or 50 years or, 或者要是我幸运的话
if I'm so lucky, 我死后100年还会有人读
100 years after I die. 在一般情况下
Well, in certain moods, 或许在大部分情况下
perhaps in most moods, 我认可这种想法
I'm drawn by that thought. 但在另一些情况下
But in other moods, 我必须承认
I've got to confess, 我对它也有质疑
I'm skeptical of it. 我又想起了叔本华的那段话
I remind myself of Schopenhauer writing his little passage, 他对尘土的颂歌
his Ode To Dust, 我发现
and I find myself saying, 就像叔本华在绝望之时
just like Schopenhauer was so desperate 自欺欺人地想
that he deludes himself into thinking, 我就是变成灰尘也没什么
"Oh, it doesn't matter that I'm about to turn into dust. 尘土非常非常重要
Dust is really, really important," 我难道不也在自欺欺人地想象
I'm just deluding myself as well, 想象那些伟大
when I think there's something grander, 辉煌的事情
something significant, 想象那些充满价值的成就
something valuable about having made an accomplishment, 想象在我死后仍然存在的成就
having achieved something that continues beyond me. 所以  至少在一些时候
So in certain moods, at least, 我觉得自己也不过是在自欺欺人
I find myself thinking that I've just deluded myself. 但那只是一些时候
But that's only certain moods. 大多数时候
And at least most of the time, 我认可荷尔德林的想法
I find myself in agreement with Hlderlin. 并不是说非要认为
Not necessarily in thinking 数量一点也不重要
quantity doesn't matter at all. 写一部伟大的著作就是你需要的全部
To have written one great work is all you need 其它伟大著作都是多余的
and more great works doesn't add anything-- 这对我来说太极端了
that strikes me as going too far. 但至少完成一些有意义的事情
But at least to have done something significant that abides, 在我看来  增加了我
that does seem to me to add to 生活的意义和价值
the value and significance of my life. 下面我讲一种完全不同的思想
Well, let me mention an entire different approach. 我会非常简单的
I'm going to give very, 阐述一下这个思想
very short shrift to this last approach, 但它也是值得关注的
but it's probably worth mentioning as well. 今天课上我们讲的所有想法
The entire assumption of all the lines of thought 它们的整体思路
that I've been discussing so far today 它们共同的出发点都是
have in common the underlying belief 由于我们必有一死
that the way to deal with the fact that we live 我们应如何生活
and then we're dead 我们应该尽量让生活过得更好
is to try to make the life that you've got as good as possible, 过得更有价值
as valuable as possible, 尽量充实自己的生活
to pack as much into it as you can, 尽管我们有空间探讨
even though there's room for disagreement about 最佳策略应该是什么
what's the best strategy for doing that. 这一思路说的是
The picture is one in which we say 我们对失去生命无能为力
we can't do anything about the loss of life, 所以正确的做法是
so the right response is to 让我们的生活尽量有价值
make the life that we've got as valuable as it can be, 尽可能看到它的价值
to see it as valuable as it can be. 但这里还有一种完全不同的思想
But there's a rather different approach. 这一思想说的是
That alternative approach says, 是的  我们会失去生命而且这很可怕
yes, we're going to lose life and that's horrible. 但只有当你认为失去生命是坏事时
But it's only horrible insofar as you think of life as something 它才可怕
that it's bad to lose. 如果  我们认为
After all, if we were to decide that 生命不是有价值的东西
life wasn't really a valuable gift, 不是件值得留恋的东西
if it wasn't really something worth embracing, 不是我们获得最大价值的媒介
and something that we could turn into something full of value, 那么失去生命就不是什么损失
then its loss wouldn't actually be a loss. 这个观点我们以前见过  对吧
That's a point we've seen before, right? 死亡的主要坏处在于
The central badness of death is 根据剥夺理论的解释
explained in the depravation account. 我们失去了
You are deprived of the fact that 我们本来可以拥有的
you could have had more life 有价值的生活
that would have been worth having overall. 但如果生命总体来讲不值得拥有
But if life isn't worth having overall, 那么失去它就不是件坏事
then its loss is not a bad thing, 而是件好事
but a good thing. 所以关键不在于
The trick, then, isn't to 尽量活得有价值
make life as valuable as it could be, 而在于认识到  总的来讲
but rather to come to recognize that on balance, 生命不是好事而是坏事
life isn't positive, but negative. 我知道我下面要讲的
I know that what I'm about to say 类似"经典重读"里的简单描写
has a kind of Classics Illustrated simplicity to it, 而且有些过于夸张
and it's a bit of an over-exaggeration, 但粗略来讲
but in gross terms, 我们说第一种观点
we might say the first general outlook-- 生命是美好的所以失去它是件坏事
that life is good and so the loss of it is bad 所以趁我们还活着要尽量充实它
and so the answer is make as much of it as we can while we've got it-- 我们可以叫它
you might say that is, 粗略地讲
in broad strokes, 西方观点
the western outlook. 而且粗略地讲
And in broad strokes, 那种认为人生并不像
the notion that life isn't really 我们认为的那样美好
as good as we take it to be, 而是  总体来讲很差
but is, in fact, bad overall, 也许把它叫成东方观点太武断了
perhaps it's oversimplification to call it the eastern outlook, 但至少这个观点在
but at least it's an outlook that gets more expression 东方思想里出现的比在西方思想里更多
typically in eastern thought than in western thought. 第二种观点最好的实例是
Foremost example of this second outlook is, 我认为是佛教
I suppose, Buddhism. 佛教教义是"四谛"
Four noble truths in Buddhism. 第一谛说的是  人生是受苦
The first noble truth is that life is suffering. 佛教徒相信如果你仔细思考
Buddhists believe if you think hard 生命的本质
about the underlying nature of life, 你会发现人生处处都是失落
you'll see that everyplace there is loss. 都是怨憎
There is suffering. 都是疾病
There is disease. 都是死亡
There is death. 都是痛苦
There is pain. 当然  有些我们希望得到的东西
Sure, there are things that we want and, 如果我们幸运
if we're lucky, 我们会得到它们
we get them. 但过后又失去它们
But then we lose them 这仅仅增加了
and that just adds to 我们的痛苦  怨憎和不满
the suffering and the pain and the misery. 总的来讲  生命不是好事
On balance, life isn't good. 这是第一谛
First noble truth, 人生是痛苦的
life is suffering. 那么  基于这个判断
And so, armed with this estimation, 佛教希望
what Buddhists try to do is to 把你从这些束缚中解脱出来
free you from attachment to these goods, 那么当你失去它们时
so that when you lose them, 你的损失最小
the loss is minimized. 实际上
And indeed, 佛教希望把你从
Buddhists try to free you from 自我幻象中解放出来
what they take to be the illusion of there being a self. 其实没有一个"我"失去任何事情
There is no me to lose anything. 死亡之所以可怕是因为
Death is terrifying insofar as 你担心"自我"的消散
I worry about it being the dissolution of myself. 但如果本来无我
If there is no self, 就没有东西可以消散
there's nothing to dissolve. 这都很合理
It all makes sense-- 我对佛教非常尊重
and I have tremendous respect for Buddhism-- 它说的都很合理
it all makes sense, 只要认可生命是痛苦的
given the thought that life is suffering. 但不管怎么说
But for better or for worse, 我在西方文化中长大
I'm a child of the west. 我读着《创世纪》长大
I'm a child of the Book of Genesis, 上帝俯视世界然后说
where God looks on the world and says, 真美呀
"It's good." 对我来讲  至少
For me, at least, 通过消极厌世
the strategy of minimize your loss 来减少自己损失的做法
by viewing the world as negative, 不是我愿意接受的
is not one that I can be at rest with. 对我来讲  生活可以是美好的
For me, life can be good. 所以我的选择是
And so the choices for me, 而且我估计大多数同学也都会
and I suppose for most of us, 选择我们开始时探讨的那些策略
remain among the strategies with which I began. 我们应该如何
How is it that we can 度过最有价值的一生
most make our lives valuable? 我们能作出什么成就
What is it that we can do that will allow us, 让我们能和荷尔德林一样说
with Hlderlin, to say, 当我过着神一样的生活
"once we lived like the gods"? 



 Chapter 23: 自杀(一)：自杀的合理性


上节课
Last time, 我们讨论了由于人必有一死
we talked about how you should live your life, 我们应该如何度过一生
in light of the fact of our--your mortality. 知道自己必有一死
How does the fact that we will die-- 会对我们的生活方式产生什么影响
how should that affect the way that we live? 我们下面要讲的
What we're going to turn to now, 这学期的最后一个话题
our final topic for the semester, 是这个问题的另一面
is the flip side. 我们必有一死
The fact of our mortality 是否意味着
raises the question as to whether or not 我们应该结束自己的生命
we should put an end to our life. 严格来讲  我认为
Strictly speaking, I suppose 这不是我们寿命有限的问题
it's not the fact that we're mortal, per se, 而是我们以前讲过的
it's one of those extra features of death that 死亡其它性质里
I've discussed previously, 生命长度因人而异的问题
the variability of death. 而且更准确地说
And more particularly still, 是我们能控制自己生命长度的问题
the fact that we can control how long we live. 我们可以在享尽天年之前
We face the possibility of ending our life earlier than 结束自己的生命
it would end otherwise. 这当然就是自杀了
That's suicide, of course. 所以我们最后一个话题就是
And so our final topic is, 在什么情况下
under what circumstances, 如果有的话  自杀是合理的
if any, does suicide make sense? 在什么情况下
Under what circumstances, 如果有的话  自杀是恰当的
if any, is it an appropriate thing to do? 我们的文化中弥漫着
Now, it's a fairly widespread feature of our culture 对自杀的鄙视
that suicide is looked upon with such a mixture of disdain, 恐惧和反感
fear, finding it offensive, 清晰地思考以及
that it's very hard, often, to think clearly 讨论这个话题都很困难
and discuss the topic clearly. 人们总是认为
Most people think it's either 自杀是一种疯狂的行为
that you've got to be crazy to kill yourself. 你关注自杀的事情
The very fact that you are contemplating suicide 就说明你已经疯了
is evidence that you're crazy. 如果你没疯  就说明你道德沦丧
And if you're not crazy, then it shows that you're immoral. 自杀毋庸置疑
Suicide is clearly never, 从来都不是正确的选择
never right, the right thing to do. 所以  我希望花些时间
So, what I want to propose is that we take some time 从两方面探讨这个问题
and look at the questions on both sides with a fair bit of care. 首先我们要做的是
And the very first thing to do, I think, 为了探讨自杀话题
in thinking about the topic of suicide, 我们需要区分理性问题和道德问题
is to distinguish questions of rationality from questions of morality. 我希望大家首先考虑一下
That is, I want us to take a look at, initially, the question, 在什么情况下
under what circumstances, 如果有的话  自杀是合理的
if ever, would suicide be the rational thing to do? 然后再关注  在什么情况下
And then later turn to the question, when, 如果有的话  自杀是符合道德的
if ever, would suicide be a morally legitimate 或者说符合伦理  符合社会规范
or a morally permissible or morally acceptable thing to do? 做出这种区别
In posing this distinction, 我已经假设了这两个问题是不同的
I'm obviously presupposing that these questions can come apart, 或者至少它们需要分开讨论
or at least they need to be examined separately. 一方面是合理性问题
Questions of rationality on the one hand, 一方面是道德问题
and questions of morality on the other. 可以说  它们都涉及应然性
These are both questions about oughts, as we might put it. 它们是评价性问题
They're evaluative questions. 但大多数人总是认为
But at least most people are inclined to think 我们采用不同的评价标准
that we are drawing on different evaluative standards 来评价一类问题
when we raise the one set of questions, 而不是另一类问题
as opposed to when we raise the other. 很多情况下  不用说
In many cases, no doubt, 理性问题和道德问题紧密相连
rationality and morality go hand in hand. 一些哲学观点
And there are philosophical views 揭示了理性本质和道德本质
about the nature of rationality and the nature of morality, 基于这些本质  它们总是紧密相连
according to which they always go hand in hand. 但很多人认为它们可以分开
But many of us are inclined to think that they can come apart. 比如说  这个季节
Take, for example, given the season of the year that it is, 你又要报税了
consider doing your income taxes or, 说清楚一点  你又要做假账了
more particularly still, cheating on your income taxes. 报税单被抽查的可能性非常非常低
The rate at which income tax forms get audited is very, very slight. 而且被抓住以后
And so--and the fines tend to not be especially egregious, 罚款也不那么惊人
even if you do get caught. 所以出于理性
So that from a rational point of view, 很多人会想
many of us might think it 做假是个合理的选择
might well be a rational decision to cheat. 你基本上不会被抓到
You're not likely to get caught. 即使被抓到  罚款也没多少
Even if you do get caught, how bad's the fine anyway? 但即使我们都认可
But even if we were to agree 做假是个合理的选择
that it was rational to cheat, 大多数人还是
most of us would then immediately want to 会马上指出
follow that remark up by pointing out 这样做
that doesn't at all mean that 在税单上造假是不道德的
it's morally acceptable to cheat on your income tax. 这就是个例子
There's a case perhaps 说明道德规范要求你做的事
where you're morally required to do something 不一定合乎理性
that you're not rationally required to do. 我们再看个相反的例子
Or, take a choice from the other point of view. 现在你开始选择
There you are, trying to decide between--there you are, 选择上哪所大学
trying to decide between your various choices of college. 一个选择你可以上耶鲁
And you've gotten into Yale on the one hand, 另一个选择  可能是个差学校
and perhaps some crummy school, 你的第二志愿
your second-rate backup school, on the other. 你在决定上哪个学校
And you're trying to decide what to do there. 你可能对自己说
Well, you might think to yourself, 道德上我没有义务上耶鲁
morally I have no obligations here. 没有特别的义务  道德要求
There's no particular obligation, moral requirement, 要求我上好学校而不是差学校
to go to the better school rather than the worse school. 但不管怎么说  我如果去了坏学校
But for all that, it would be irrational of me, 那就不是个理性的选择
perhaps, to go to the worse school. 所以这个例子中  不存在道德要求
So there's a case where there's no moral requirement, 但存在理性上的要求
but there's a rational requirement. 当然  两个例子中的细节还可推敲
Again, we could debate the details of the two examples, 但关键问题在于
but the point's just to show that, 至少从原则上讲  从表面看来
in principle at least, on the face of it, 这两个问题可以分开谈论
these two questions can come apart. 有时候做的事情合理
Sometimes it's rationally acceptable to do something, 但不符合道德
but it's immoral. 有时候做的事情符合道德
Sometimes it's morally acceptable to do something, 但不合乎理性
but it's irrational. 所以在探讨自杀话题时
So in thinking about suicide, 我们需要分开探讨这两个问题
we need to pose the two questions, one after the other. 所以  我们先来讨论
So, let's start with the 自杀的合理性问题
question about the rationality of suicide. 什么时候  自杀是合理的选择
When, if ever, is suicide a rational decision to make? 再一次
Now, once again, 为了探讨自杀的合理性
the first thing I want to do in thinking about 我首先要做的是
the rationality of suicide 区分两种不同的情况
is to distinguish two different issues, 两个不同的问题
or two different questions. 第一个问题是
The first question is going to be this. 什么时候  你死了会更好
When, if ever, would it be true that you are better off dead? 有没有这种情况
Could it be the case that 你的生活太糟糕了
your life is going so badly 以至于你死了会更好
that you'd be better off dead? 第二个问题
Second question, 假设第一个问题的答案是
assuming that the answer to the first question is, 在这样或那样的情况下
under such and such circumstances, 你死了会更好  我们仍然会问
you would be better off dead, we still have to ask, 你怎么有理由相信自己的判断
could it ever be rational for you to trust your judgment 现在就到了生不如死的时候
that this is one of those cases in which you're better off dead? 你杀死自己怎么可能是合理的
Could it ever be rational for you to kill yourself? 可以想见
Conceivably, 第二个问题的答案会是否定的
the answer to the second might be no. 好的  所以问题是这样的
All right. So, the question was this. 你可能会有下面这种想法
It's conceivable you might have a thought like the following. 在那些情况下
In those circumstances 生活痛苦不堪  你生不如死
in which life has gotten so horrible that you'd be better off dead, 你神志不清
you can't think clearly. 你神志不清造成了
And the very fact that you can't think clearly would entail 你无法判断自己
that you shouldn't trust your judgment 是否已到了山穷水尽的地步
that you are in one of those cases. 这一说法是否正确
Whether that's a good argument or not 我们过后再说
is something we'll have to turn to later. 但是正因为你会有这种想法
But it's because of the possibility of that argument 所以我需要区分第一个问题
that I wanted to distinguish the initial question, 是否有时候你会生不如死
could it be true that you're better off dead 以及第二个问题
from the secondary question, 即使有这种生不如死的时候
even if it could be true that you're better off dead, 你怎么有理由相信
could it ever be a reasonable or rational decision for you to believe 你正处其中
that you're in one of those situations? 除非我们把两个问题都解决了
Unless we've got the two things in place, 自杀才有可能
it doesn't seem likely that 是合理的事情
it's ever going to be rational to commit suicide. 所以  我们要讨论的第一个话题是
So, the very first topic we have to look at is, 究竟有没有可能你死了会更好
could it ever be true that you'd be better off dead? 马上
And immediately, 一些同学会提出逻辑上的质疑
there's a kind of logical worry that may occur to some of you, 很多哲学家已经提出过这样的质疑
certainly has been raised by various philosophers. 也就是说
And that's to say that 这个判断  这一说法
the very judgment, the very claim, 琼斯死了会更好  不可能成立
that Jones would be better off dead can't make any sense. 让我们假设  看
On the assumption that, look, 为了比较
in order to make comparisons-- 哪个更好  哪个更差
better off, worse off; 他现在处于这种或那种情况
here he is in such and such a situation; 他在另一种情况下会更好
he'd be better off in that other situation-- 你一方面需要说明
you've got to be able to talk about, on the one hand, 这个人以前的状态
what condition or state the person is before 另一方面要说明他以后的状态
and what condition or state the person would be in afterwards, 如果他做了选择的话
if they were to make that choice. 我们称其为"双态要求"
Call this the two-state requirement. 一般情况下  当我们判断一件事
Normally, when we make judgments about whether something 对你是好是坏
would leave you better off or worse off, 我们需要知道两种状态
we satisfy the two-state requirement. 你决定是否减肥
You're trying to decide whether or not to lose some weight. 你会想  这是我现在超重的状态
And you think, well, here's how well off I am now, being overweight. 这是我减肥以后的状态
Here's how well off I would be later, if I were to lose that weight. 我可以比较两种状态
I can compare the two states, 如果第二个状态比第一个好
say the second state's better than the first state. 那我就能说
That's what makes it true 我会过得更好
that I'd be better off. 决定和某个人
Trying to decide whether or not 结婚还是分手
to marry the person or break up with the person 决定从事这个行业还是转行
or pick this career or change careers. 你都需要比较你现在的状态
You've got the state you're in and you compare it 和你以后的状态
to the state you would be in. 你比较两种状态
You compare the two states. 这样我们就可以说
That's what allows us to say, 是的  我会更好
"Yeah, I'd be better off" 或者  不  我会更差
Or "No, I'd be worse off." 但当我们谈到自杀时
But when we're talking about cases of suicide, 好了  现在我在这里
cases where, well, here I am now, 具有前一个状态
the before state requirement's in place, 但如果我们把它和后来的状态相比
but if we contrast that with the after state requirement, 那个状态不存在  不是吗
well, that part's not met, right? 假设死亡就是终点
When you--On the assumption that death is the end, 你将不复存在
that you won't exist, 不存在不是一个你能经历的状态
nonexistence isn't a state that you will be in. 不是你的一种状况
It's not a condition of you, 因为状态和状况都以存在为前提
because states and conditions presuppose existence. 当我们谈论你是否高兴
We can talk about are you happy? 是否难过  无聊  兴奋
Are you sad? Are you bored? Are you excited? 都以你存在为前提
All of those things presuppose your existence. 即使你睡着了
Even are you sleeping? 也是一种你可以经历的状态
is a state or condition you can be in, 因为你存在
because you exist. 但如果我杀死自己  我不存在了
But if I kill myself, I won't exist. 就没有第二种状态来比较了
There is no second state to compare. 所以  反对者说  我们怎能
So, how could we possibly say, the objection goes, 我们怎能说  我死了会更好
how could we possibly say that I'd be better off dead? 这好像已经假设了还有第二种状态
That seems to presuppose that there's a second state 可以和当前的状态比较
that we can compare to my actual state. 但由于没有第二种状态
Since there isn't one, 判断我死了会更好就没有道理
the judgment, I'd be better off dead, can't even get off the ground. 这里面有个无法避免的逻辑错误
It's got a logical mistake built right into it. 以上就是这一质疑
Well, that's the objection. 正如我所说
And, as I say, 很多哲学家认同这一观点
there are a number of philosophers who are drawn to it. 也许一些同学也被它吸引
Maybe some of you are drawn to it as well. 但我认为它是错的
It seems to me that it's mistaken. 回忆一下我们在谈到
Consider what we wanted to say 剥夺理论时的说法
when we talked about the deprivation account, 关于死亡主要坏处的那个理论
the central account of what's bad about death. 对于大多数人来说  死亡是件坏事
For most of us, dying would be bad, 因为它剥夺了我们
because it would deprive us 生命中的美好事物
of the good things in life 只要我们活着我们就会得到的美好事物
that we would get, if only we didn't die. 这个观点看起来很自然
That seemed like a natural thing to say. 也恰如其分
It seemed like an appropriate thing to say. 但是  我们会说
Of course, we might ask, 如果我们接受"双态要求"
if we believe in the two-state requirement, 上述说法就有问题  毕竟
how could we have said that? After all, 根据双态要求
given the two-state requirement, 如果说死亡对我是坏事
to say that death is bad for me, 那我最好还没死
I'd be better off staying alive. 如果我们接受双态要求  我们会说
If we believe in the two-state requirement, we've got to say, 哦  当我死后
Oh, so had I died, 我应该处于某种状态
I would have been in some state 和我现在的状态相比是比较差的
that I could compare to my current state and say that it's worse. 但是当然  死亡不是一种状态
But, of course, death isn't a state. 所以  这里没有满足双态要求
So, the two-state requirement's not met. 这一说法给我们造成了障碍
Well, we might say this should give us some pause. 如果"双态要求"
If the two-state requirement-- 如果"双态要求"只是说明
It would be one thing if all that the two-state requirement said was, 我们根本无法断定我死了会更好
you know, we can't ever say we'd be better off dead. 这就简单了
But it turns out 但它的推论不只如此
the two-state requirement's got more implications than that. 它还表明
It's got the implication 你甚至无法断定自己活着会更好
that you can't even say you're better off staying alive. 人们很难接受这一点
And that's very, very hard to believe. 想象有个快乐的人
Imagine that you've got some happy person, 他非常幸福  日子过得非常好
some incredibly happy person with a wonderful life filled 想多好有多好
with whatever goods you think are worth having in life-- 爱情  事业  学问  等等
love and accomplishment and knowledge and whatever it is. 他过马路时  眼看要被卡车撞上
He's walking across the street and he's about to get hit by a truck. 你冒险冲上去
And so, at some risk to yourself, you leap into the way, 把他推开  救了他一命
pushing him out of the way, saving his life. 很幸运  你也没受伤
And happily, you don't get hurt either. 他看了看
He looks up, 意识到自己与死神擦肩而过
realizes he was this close from death 他说  谢谢你
and he says, "Thank you. 谢谢你救了我一命
Thank you for saving my life. 现在你该说的话是
"And now what you have to say is, 我觉得你可能没搞明白
"I'm afraid you're rather confused. 因为你感谢我救了你一命
Because to say 'thank you' for my saving your life 是假设我已经施惠于你
is to presuppose I've benefited you in some way. 你假设我施惠于你
To presuppose I've benefited you in some way 是在假设
is to assume that you're-- 你继续活下来是件好事
it's a good thing that your life has continued. 但是你看  基于"双态要求"
But, you see, given the two-state requirement, 我们不能说你继续活下来是件好事
we can't say it's a good thing that your life continued, 因为根据"双态要求"
because the two-state requirement says 我们只有在前后状态
we can only make that kind of remark 都存在的情况下才能这么说
when there's a before state and an after state. 但现在后一种状态是"不存在"
And the after state would have been nonexistence. 所以  你看
So, you see, 当你认为我救你一命是件好事时
you're really rather philosophically confused in thinking 你就在哲学上把事情搞混了
that I've done you some sort of favor by saving your life." 我不会把这种说法当真
I can't take that argument seriously. 在我看来
It seems to me that-- 我也希望没有同学把它当真
and I hope that none of you would take it seriously, either. 救人一命当然是施惠于人
Of course, you are doing somebody a favor when you save their life, 因为他们的生活本来很好
given the assumption that their life has been 以后也会很好
and would continue to be wonderful. 这里要说明的不是"不存在"是
And what that shows is not that so nonexistence really 一种幽灵般的飘忽状态
is a kind of spooky, super thin state or condition. 不  当然不是
No, of course it isn't. 不存在就是不存在
Nonexistence is nonexistence. 它根本不是一种状态
It's no kind of condition or state at all. 这里要说明的是"双态要求"
What it shows is the two-state requirement 不是这类评估中真正需要的前提
isn't a genuine requirement on these sorts of evaluations. 我们不必说  如果你死了
We don't have to say that if you had died-- 当你面对被救之人时
when you point to the person whose life you saved, 我们不必说  如果你死了
we don't have to say that had you died, 你会处于一种很悲惨的状态中
you would have been in some inferior state. 我们只用说
We simply have to say 如果我救了你  你将来的生活
the life you would have had, had I saved you 而且我确实救了你
and indeed will have, given that I have saved you, 会是非常美好的生活
is a great life. 因为它很美好
Since it's good, 所以失去它是件坏事
to lose it would be bad. 因为失去它是件坏事
Since losing it would be bad, 所以救了你  你没失去它
saving it for you is benefiting you. 对你就是件好事
It's doing you a favor. "双态要求"不是这样说的
Two-state requirement says otherwise. 所以我们应该摒弃它
Two-state requirement's got to go. 同时  放弃"双态要求"
But, having gotten rid of it, 原则上也能解释另一方面的事情
we can say the same thing in principle on the other side. 想象有个人生活很糟糕
Imagine there was somebody whose life was horrible, 痛苦不堪  难以忍受
full of pain and suffering and misery. 当然  是否会有这样一个人
Now, whether there could be such a person, again, 我们一会儿再谈
that's a question we'll turn to in a second. 但是如果有这样一个人
But if there were such a person, 那我们会说
then we can say, 他们生命的延续
for their life to continue 对他们不是好事而是坏事
isn't good for them; it's bad for them. 他们生活中充满悲伤
Their life is full of misery 痛苦  挫折和失望
and suffering and frustration and disappointment. 这类东西越多  生活越糟糕
And the more and more of that, the worse and worse the life is. 过100年这样的生活
To lead a life of 100 years, 每分钟都是煎熬
where every moment is torture and pain, 比过30年这样的生活
is worse than a life of 30 years, 要更糟糕
where every moment is torture and pain. 所以  如果存在这样的人
So, if you had such a person, 延长他们的生命对他们就是坏事
for their life to go longer would be bad. 在这种情况下
In which case, 他们活得越短  对他们越好
for their life to be going shorter, would be better for them. 这就是我们说
And that's all we mean when we say 他们死了会更好的全部意思
they'd be better off dead. 并没有一个我们死后幽灵般飘浮不定
Not that there's some spooky super thin 难以描述的状态存在
and hard to describe condition that they'd be in if they were dead. 很简单
But simply, 回想一下两种可能的生活
we look back at the two possible lives they could have. 那个获救的人
Just with the person whose life we saved. 第一个人
The first person, 我们把他100年的幸福生活
we compare the great life that lasts 100 years 以及要是没获救
versus the great life that only lasts 20 years 20年的幸福生活加以比较
because you didn't save their life. 我们会说  哦
We say, oh, 100年的生活是更好的生活
the life of 100 years, better life. 所以  救他一命对他有好处
And so, saving their life is a good thing for them. 同样  我们把漫长的痛苦生活
Similarly, we compare the lives of misery, 和较短的痛苦生活加以比较
the long life versus the short life of misery. 我们说  哦  漫长的痛苦生活
And we say, oh, the long life of misery is a worse life 比较短的那个更糟糕
to have than the short life of misery. 这就是我们说
And that being the case, we 你死了会更好时的情况
simply can say you'd be better off dead. 不是说你会得到更好的状态
Not that you'd be in some condition that's a good one. 只是说  你能避免痛苦的状态
It's simply, you'd avoid this condition, which is a bad one. 如果"双态要求"不是这样说的
And if the two-state requirement says otherwise, 那么"双态要求"就更应被摒弃
so much the worse for the two state requirement. 好了  这就是逻辑上的质疑
All right. So this is by way of the logical worry, 质疑我们是否有可能去谈论
that we can't even get off the ground in talking about the possibility 你死了会不会更好
that you'd be better off dead. 我认为如果我们接受"双态要求"
I think if we believe in the two-state requirement, 我们就必须认同这个质疑
maybe we'd have to say that. 但接受"双态要求"的代价太高
But the cost of accepting the two-state requirement is so implausible, 如果有人得心脏病快死了
that the person's dying of a heart attack 你为他实施心脏复苏
and you perform CPR. 他不说"谢谢你"  而是说
Instead of saying "Thank you," they say, 我没觉得这比死了好多少
"Oh, I'm really no better off than I would have been if I died, 尽管我的生活很幸福
even though I'm having a wonderful life." "双态要求"如此有悖常理
The two-state requirement's just so implausible, 所以我们必须放弃它
we should let it go. 得到这个结论  仍然没有解决
Now, having done that, of course, doesn't yet tell us that it could, 是否有些人生活非常糟糕
in fact, be the case that somebody's life could be so bad 以致他们死了会更好
that they'd be better off dead, 他们的存在
that the existence that they've got 是不是还不如他们根本没存在过
is worse than not existing at all. 迄今为止  我们未做结论
All we've done so far is leave open the door; 保留这种说法逻辑上的可能性
open the door to the possibility of saying that coherently. 但这不意味着它就是对的
But that doesn't mean it's true. 是否存在这种生不如死的情况取决于你
Whether or not there could be such lives depends on your view 对幸福的理解
about what's the correct account of well-being. 什么东西使得一个人的生命值得过下去
What is it that goes into making somebody's life worthwhile? 正像我们前面看到的
Now, as we've seen previously, 这是一个有争议的话题
this is a controversial topic. 人们对美好生活的组成部分有异议
People disagree about the ingredients of the best kind of life. 因为这些区别
And because of these differences, 所以在哲学上有不同的观点
we're going to get philosophical differences of opinion 关注是否有一种生活
with regard to whether or not a life 如此糟糕以至于
could be so bad 把它结束是比较好的选择
that it would be better for it to come to an end. 我不会去罗列所有的观点
I'm not going to try to rehearse all the possible theories there are. 或者说
Or, for that matter, 罗列前面提到的所有观点
even all the theories that we've talked about previously. 而是告诉你它何时可能发生
But to give you an illustration of how it could be true, 回忆一下
imagine, 最简单的幸福理论  享乐主义
go back to our simplest theory of well-being--hedonism, 你生活的质量
according to which your quality of life 是把所有快乐相加
is a matter of adding up all the pleasure 减去所有痛苦
and subtracting all the pain. 当然我们需要考虑
And we need to take into account 快乐和痛苦的持续时间
how long the pleasures and the pains last 以及它们的强度
and how intense the pleasures and the pains are. 不过  我们仍然是把所有快乐相加
But still, we add up the total amount of pleasure, 把所有痛苦相加
add up the total amount of pain, 从快乐中减去痛苦
subtract the pain from the pleasure and look to see 然后看看结果是多少
what our grand total is. 如果是正数
If it's positive, 那么你的生活值得过下去
your life's worth living. 数字越大
And the greater the number, 正值越大
the greater the positive number, 你的生活越值得过下去
the more your life is worth living. 如果是负数
If it's negative though, 如果你的生活充满痛苦和煎熬
if your life is filled with pain and suffering, 或者至少  痛苦和煎熬
or at least so much pain and suffering that 超过你生活中的快乐
it outweighs whatever pleasures you may have in your life, 那么你的结果就是负数
so that your balance is a negative one, 那么你的生活就不值得过下去
then your life's not worth living. 这样的生活越长
Having that go longer and longer 坏处就越大
is just more and more negative balance. 这样的生活对你来说就是坏事
That's a life that's bad for you to have 你失去它会更好
and you'd be better off not having it. 你最好给它画上句号
You'd be better off having your life come to an end. 你死了会更好
You'd be better off dead. 那么当然
And, of course, 结果的负值越大
the more and more negative the grand total is, 你的生活就越糟糕
the worse your life is. 所以你死了就越好
And so the more it's true that you'd be better off dead. 好了  这就是享乐主义的结论
Well, that's what hedonism says. 如果我们不是享乐主义者
If we're not hedonists, 当然  前面我说过
and of course, previously I've argued that 我们不应该成为享乐主义者
we shouldn't be hedonists, 那么我们就需要更复杂的幸福理论
then we need a more complicated theory of the good. 我们需要引入一些其它东西
We need to throw in other things, 或许是一些外部价值
perhaps, certain external goods. 有意义的并不仅仅是自我感觉
It's not just a matter of getting the insides right-- 不仅仅是快乐  痛苦
the pleasure and the pain 还有其它的精神状态
and the other mental states-- 你还有很多
there are various facts 和这个世界的客观联系
about your objective hookup with the rest of the world. 你是否真在攀登珠峰
Are you really climbing Mount Everest? 你是否真的获得了成就
Are you really accomplishing things? 人们是不是真的喜欢你  等等
Do people really love you, and so forth and so on? 你可以列出很多客观上的好事
Whatever your list is of those other objective goods-- 你也可以
well you'll probably also want to 列出除痛苦以外客观上的坏事
have a list of other objective bads, besides pain. 但是  基本思路和前面一样
But still, the same basic idea is going to be in place. 我们要把所有
We're going to want to somehow 客观上的好事相加
add up all of the various objective goods, 把所有客观上的坏事相加
add up all the various objective bads, 然后看看总数
and see where the balance lies. 好事是否多于坏事
Do the goods outweigh the bad? 如果好事多于坏事  那太好了
If the goods outweigh the bad, that's great. 你的生活值得过下去
Your life's worth living. 如果坏事多于好事
But if the bads outweigh the good, then 那么你的生活不值得过下去
your life is not worth living, 或者不值得继续过下去
or not worth continuing. 像我们之前注意到的
Now, as we've noted before, 有一些哲学理论
there are philosophical theories which go on to claim-- 悲观主义者
pessimists, 各种不同版本的悲观主义
various versions of pessimistic views, 指出  任何人在任何情况下
which say, for everybody in all circumstances, 生活都是坏事  大家死了更好
life is so bad that they'd be better off dead. 生活充满痛苦和悲伤
Life's so full of suffering and misery, 所以不论生命中
that whatever pleasures there are 有什么快乐和美好
and other goods there may be in the life, 也抵不过那些客观上的坏事
they get outweighed by the objective bads. 有些哲学理论是这样认为的
There are philosophical views like that, 但我认为从常识来讲
but I suppose the commonsense view is, well, 即使有些生活很糟糕
even if some lives may be so bad that 人们生不如死
the person is better off dead, 但并非所有生活都如此
that's not true of all lives. 要视具体情况而定
It depends on the facts of the case. 下面我们就来讨论这种可能性
So, let's focus on that possibility. 当然  讲到这里
Of course, even here, 我们也要回顾一下
we still have to return to 之前讨论过的一个问题
another issue that we've considered before. 也就是  活着本身有价值吗
Namely, is life itself worth having? 你活着本身就是件好事吗
Is the very fact that you're alive itself a good thing? 这是"有价容器"理论
These are the valuable container theories, 我前面
which I've previously 把它和"中性容器"理论比较过
contrasted with the neutral container theories. 你们回忆一下
You'll recall that 根据"中性容器"理论
according to the neutral container theories, 考察某人的生活质量
in thinking about the quality of someone's life, 只需考察生活内容
you just look at the contents. 生活本身只是个容器
Life itself is only a container, 好坏取决于填充的内容
good or bad, depending on what it's filled up with. 但与"中性容器"理论相反
But opposed to the neutral container theories, "有价容器"理论指出
we had valuable container theories which say 你活着本身就具有一定价值
the very fact that you're alive adds some positive value above 无论你活的怎样
and beyond whatever's going on in your life. 即使"有价容器"理论
Now, even the valuable container theories 也有不同版本
came in different versions. 有"有限价值容器"理论
There were more modest versions, 它指出  原则上
where in principle, 如果生活太糟糕了
the positive value of being alive could be outweighed 活着本身的价值会被坏事抵消
if the contents got bad enough. 和它相反的是"无限价值容器"理论
And we contrast that with fantastic container theories, 这一版本指出
according to which 活着本身极具价值
being alive is so valuable, 无论生活多糟糕也无所谓
that it doesn't matter how bad the contents get, 总和永远是正数
the grand total is always a positive one. 如果你接受"无限价值容器"理论
Now look, if you accept a fantastic container theory, 那么很清楚
then pretty clearly, 不可能有谁死了会更好
it's never true that somebody could be better off dead. 因为无论生活多糟糕
Because no matter how bad the contents get, 活着本身就有无限价值
the fact that they're alive, per se, is so valuable, 它冲抵了负值
it outweighs that subtotal, 总和总是正数
giving us a positive grand total. 很清楚
So pretty clearly, 从"无限价值容器"理论出发
from the perspective of fantastic container theories, 自杀绝不会是理智的
suicide will never be rational, 因为没人死了会更好
because it's never true that you're better off dead, 无论发生怎样的状况
because it's never true that your life over all, 你的生活绝不可能
taking everything that's relevant into consideration, 是负数
gives us a negative. 好的  请问
Yeah, question. 问题是
The question was, 在"无限价值容器"理论中
on the fantastic container theories, 生活本身为什么如此不可思议
what's so incredible about life itself? 我们是说它具有内在价值吗
Are we saying it's intrinsically valuable? 是的  答案是"的确如此"
And yes, the answer is: precisely. "有价容器"理论的支持者
The fans of the valuable container theories 认为生存本身就有价值
are saying being alive itself is valuable. 你们回忆一下
You may recall that 我前面讲过  尽管人们这样说
I previously said although people talk that way, 但他们并不真这样想  对吧
they probably don't actually mean it, right? 如果你告诉他们
If you told them, okay, 你会像片叶子似的活着
you can be alive as a blade of grass, 他们不会说
they wouldn't say, 哦  这难道不好吗  这值得拥有
"Oh, wouldn't that be wonderful? That's worth having." 大多数这个理论的支持者会说
Most fans of the claim that 活着本身就有价值
being alive, per se, is valuable 不是说生命本身有价值
don't really mean life per se. 而是作为一个人活着有价值
They mean something more like life as a person. 作为一个可以思考和策划的实体
Being the kind of entity who can think and plan, 即使你计划出了问题
even if your plans go wrong, 至少你能经历它们
at least you were a person able to experience things, 能学习  等等
know things, and so forth. 当然  如果这就是
Of course, if that's the reason for 接受"无限价值容器"理论的原因
accepting the fantastic container theory, 那我们就不知该如何解释那些
then we might wonder what should we say about those cases 人格功能已经消散
where the P-functioning has decayed 不能像人一样行事
and the person is no longer able to continue as a person, 但或许还能感到疼痛的例子
but perhaps can still feel pain? 在这种情况下  或许
In that case, perhaps, 生活已经不值得过下去
life could cease to be worth living. 但我们能否这样说
Though whether or not we should describe it in that way 也取决于
also depends on 我们前面讲的那些复杂情形
these complicated issues that we've discussed previously, 它还是你吗
about would that still be you? 你还存在吗
Would you still exist? 在那些情况下你还活着吗
Would you still be alive under those circumstances? 所以  "有价容器"理论的基本思想是
So, the basic idea behind valuable container theories is that 生命  或说一个人的生命
life, or the life of a person, 或者类似的东西
or something like that, 具有内在价值
has intrinsic value above 它超越生活的内容
and beyond the question of what's going on within your life. 如果我们接受"无限价值容器"理论
If we accept the fantastic container theory, 那么总的来说
maybe nobody's life is 没有人的生活会糟糕到
ever so bad, grand total. 有理由自杀
Because--so that suicide would be the rational thing to do-- 因为生命本身的价值
because the value of life, per se, 大得不可思议
is so incredible 它超越了生活的内容
that it outweighs the contents. 凌驾于内容之上
It has to outweigh the contents. 这是和悲观主义对立的哲学观点
That's a philosophical view at the opposite end of the pessimists. 悲观主义认为  从哲学上说
The pessimist said, "As a matter of philosophical reflection, 所有人的生命都不如没有
we can see that everybody's life is worse than nothing." "无限价值容器"理论的支持者认为
The fantastic container fans are saying, 从哲学上说
"As a matter of philosophical reflection, 所有人的生命都值得拥有
we can see that everybody's life is better than nothing." 大多数人  我认为
Most of us, I imagine, 都在某种程度上处于两者之间
find ourselves somewhere in between. 不论我们相信"中性容器"理论
Either we believe in the neutral container theory 认为应该根据内容的好坏
and think it's a contingent matter 决定生活的好坏
whether the contents are sufficiently good or bad. 还是接受"有限价值容器"理论
Or, we may accept the modest version of the valuable container theory. 认为  生活本身具有内在价值
On that theory, of course, life has some intrinsic value, 但内在价值有限
but it's got a finite intrinsic value. 所以原则上  尽管它可以抵消一些
And in principle, even that could be outweighed 生活中的坏事
if the contents get bad enough. 但这始终是个经验判断的问题
And so again, it would be an empirical question. 我们需要判断
We have to take a look and see, 何时内容的坏处大到抵消不掉
in which cases do the contents get bad enough? 我想我是持中间观点的人
Now, I guess I'm one of these people in the middle. 我倾向认为
I'm inclined to think 不是所有人的生活都不如没有
it's not true that everybody's life is worse than nothing. 也不是所有人的生活都值得拥有
Nor is it true that everybody's life is better than nothing. 每个人的情况不同
It varies from person to person. 实际上  因为我们在谈论自杀
And indeed, not just--since we're thinking about suicide, 我们不是从整体上谈论他们的生活
we're not talking about their life as a whole, 而是  从现在开始生活会如何
but really, what does life promise from here on out? 很不幸  在我看来确实有些时候
Sadly enough, sad to say, it seems to me there are cases, 或许我们大家也都熟悉这些情况
and probably most of us are familiar with cases, 这里合适的说法
where the correct description, 根据你们认可的幸福理论
given the--your favorite theory of well-being-- 会是  从现在开始这个人
is going to be that for this person, here on out, 他的生活会非常糟糕
what life has to offer is sufficiently bad, 内容的悲惨足以胜过
so that the contents are sufficiently negative as to outweigh 生活本身的价值
whatever value life itself might have. 想象一些到了疾病晚期的病人
We could imagine somebody in the terminal stages of some illness, 比如癌症给他们造成巨大的痛苦
where their cancer perhaps is causing them a great deal of pain. 痛苦难以忍受
And the pain is so bad that 使他们无法干其它事
they can't really do much of anything else. 不能接着写小说
It's not as though they could continue working on their novel 不能和家人交谈
or continue talking with the members of their family, 他们被疼痛搞得心烦意乱
because they're just distracted by the pain 希望能有个了结
and wishing it would come to an end. 很可怕
Horribly enough, 很多退行性疾病造成人们
many degenerative diseases leave the person 越来越无法完成一些有价值的事情
less and less capable of doing the things that give life value. 意识到自己处于这种状态
And the very realization that you're in that situation 并再也不能做些事情
and no longer able to spend time doing things, 无法和你的家人在一起
or hanging out with your family, 和他们沟通  等等
or talking with them, or whatever it is may, 这件事本身就造成了沮丧和痛苦
itself, be a source of more frustration and pain. 医学上还有些情况  很可怕
There are medical conditions where, horribly enough, 婴儿出生后就一直处于疼痛中
infants get born where they're just in continual pain 他们永远无法发展认知能力
and they never develop cognitively. 他们的大脑还未开发就死了
Their brain doesn't develop and then they die. 看到这样的生命
And you look at these lives 你会说  我会说
and you say these are lives--I want to say, 这样的生命不值得拥有
these are lives that were not worth having. 这些小孩
These children would have 如果根本没出生会更好
been better off never having been born at all, 他们继续活下去没给他们带来任何好处
certainly not any kind of favor for them to continue their lives. 好了  让我们关注几个
Well, let's focus on some case 类似晚期病人的例子
like the terminal patient. 有人生病了
A person's got a disease--at least, 这会是个比较简单的例子
that would be a nice easy example. 对活在其中的人不简单
Not easy to live through, 但哲学上比较简单
but easy philosophically. 考虑起来不复杂
Easy example to think about-- 一些晚期病人病情日益恶化
some terminally ill patient whose disease is getting worse and worse. 生活中越来越没有什么好东西
And so, there are fewer and fewer of the good things in life 值得期待
that the future holds for them. 反而  痛苦越来越多
Instead, what the future holds is more and more pain, 折磨  虚弱以及沮丧
suffering, incapacity, and frustration. 当情况糟糕到一定程度
When it gets bad enough, 在我看来
it seems to me, 生活在其中的人可以合理地指出
in some of those cases the person can correctly say, 或者至少我们可以合理地指出
or we, at least, can correctly say of them, 他们死了会更好
they'd be better off dead. 好的  让我画几个例子
All right. Let me try to draw some examples. 再一次  我们把这个问题
Again, we're bracketing the question: 这个人能否清楚地认识自己的处境
Can the person think clearly about their case? 暂时放在一边
That'll come later. 我们仅仅谈论自杀何时是合理的
Let's just try to talk about when would suicide make sense? 何时结束自己的生命是合理的
When would it be sort of a rational thing to do to end your life? 有几种不同的情况
A couple of different cases. 我会画个曲线图
I'm going to draw graphs. X轴代表时间
We'll let the x-axis represent time. Y轴代表
And the y-axis represents 你的生活在此时有多好或有多坏
how good or bad your life is at that time. 支持"中性容器"理论的同学
For those of us who are fans of the neutral container theory, 对你们来说
the thing to say is 这里代表生活内容总体是好的
this represents the overall goodness of your contents 或者生活内容总体是坏的
or the overall badness of your contents. 越往上  生活越好
The higher up, the better the contents. 越往下  生活越差
The lower down, the worse the contents. 支持"有限价值容器"理论的同学
For those who are fans of the modest container theory, 这里代表生活的总体状态
this represents the grand balance. 也就是生活内容加上生命本身的价值
So it's contents plus the extra bit you get from being alive. 当然
But of course, 如果你支持"有限价值容器"理论
if you're a fan of the modest container theory, 那么即使生活内容是负数
then even if the contents are negative, 总体价值仍然可能是正数
the grand balance might still be positive. 反正这里代表的是总体生活质量
But this represents the overall bottom line, 不管你接受"中性容器"理论
whether you accept the neutral container theory 还是"有限价值容器"理论
or the modest container theory. 好的  这里是一种生活
So, here's an example of what a life might look like. 最初一切都很好  然后事情逐渐变坏
It's going along pretty well and then things get worse. 生活质量逐渐恶化
And things sort of deteriorate. 我们假设这一点代表
And let's suppose this point represents 你自然死亡的时间
when you would die of natural causes, natural death. 所以  越接近死亡
So, towards the end, 生活越不像你年轻时候那么如意
life's not as great as it was when you were young 精力充沛  身体健康
and vigorous and healthy 充满机遇和成就
and had all sorts of opportunities and accomplishments. 但是  一直到死  它都是正数
But still, till the very end, it stays positive. 如果你的生活是这样的
Well, if that's what your lifeline would look like, 很明显
pretty clearly, 自杀在任何时候都是不合理的
suicide doesn't ever make any sense. 特别是  你不会说  看
In particular, you wouldn't want to say oh, look, 我应该在这时杀死我自己
here's the place where I should kill myself, 因为从这时开始  生活质量下降了
because here is where things start to get worse. 确实  生活质量开始下降了
Yes, things are beginning to get worse, 但它从来没下降到你生不如死
but they never get so bad that you're better off dead. 所以自杀绝不是合理的
So, suicide wouldn't make any sense at all. 如果自杀是合理的
For suicide to make sense, 至少你的生活
it's got to be the case 要变差
that your life takes a turn for the worse. 不是向差发展
Not just any old turn for the worse, 而是发展到差
but a turn so much for the worse, 你的一部分生活
that for some chunk of your life, 比"不存在"还差
your life is worse than nonexistence, "不存在"就是零  X轴
the zero line, the x-axis. 好的  假设这就是发生的事情
All right. Imagine that's what's happened. 这里你很健康  精力充沛
Here you are. You're healthy, you're vigorous, 事业有成
you're accomplishing things, 但你得了某种退行性疾病
but you've got some degenerative disease 生活越来越差
that's going to make things worse and worse. 这段生活越来越差
Here's the period in which it's getting worse. 过了一段时间
And then after a while, 你的生活差到生不如死
your existence is going to be worse than nothing. 现在  我们至少有理由问
Here, we can at least broach the question in an intelligible way. 自杀是合理的吗
Might suicide make sense? 假设生活质量在这时开始下降
Suppose this is the point where the downturn begins. 你应该在这时自杀吗
Should you kill yourself at that stage? 不  因为不管怎么说
No. Because, after all, 即使生活从这里开始变坏
even though there's a downturn, things are getting worse, 但这段时间仍然是
there's still going to be another period of life, 这段时间可能是
another chunk of whatever it is-- 五年  六个月  等等
year, five years, six months, whatever it is-- 这时  虽然生活没原来那么好
where although life isn't as good as it had been before, 但还是聊胜于无
it's still better than nothing. 这么早结束自己的生命
Killing yourself at this earlier moment is, 我们会说  为时过早
we might say, premature. 放弃了一段仍然值得过下去的生活
It's throwing away a chunk of life that would still be worth having. 这样做不对
It's not the right thing to do. 不是个合理的选择
It doesn't make sense rationally. 好的  如果这个时候不对
Well, if not that moment, 那这时怎么样
what about this moment? 这时你的生命
Here's the precise point at which your life 恰好变成生不如死
is becoming worse than nothing. 开始的一个阶段
For some initial stretch of that, 还不是很差
it won't be very much worse than nothing. 但总的来说  是负数
But still, overall, it's a negative. 在此以前  你的生活值得过下去
Up to that moment, your life was worth living. 在此之后  你的生活不值得过下去
From that moment on, your life is worse than nothing. 如果你能完全控制何时自杀
If you've got complete control over when to kill yourself, 那么  这时就是自杀的时刻
well, that would be the time to do it. 假设你不能完全控制
Suppose you don't have complete control. 当然很直接的想法是
It's straightforward enough to say 如果你的生活变得生不如死
if your life is going to become worse than nothing 而且你完全能控制何时自杀
and you have complete control over when you kill yourself, 那么毋庸置疑
it seems pretty plausible to say 有理由自杀的确切时刻
the precise moment at which suicide would become rational 就是你的生活变得
would be exactly that moment at which 生不如死的那一刻
your life became not worth having. 但你或许没有这种控制力
But you might not have that kind of control. 假设你得了某种退行性疾病
Suppose that what you've got is a degenerative disease 它会逐渐使你失去
that is going to progressively strip you of the ability 控制自己身体的能力
to control your body. 但是  你的意识还很清醒
Still, your mind works for a much longer time. 那么在一段时间内
And so, for a period of time, 你就是躺在医院的病床上
you're basically stuck in your hospital bed 别人给你喂饭
being fed by somebody else. 或许你能
But perhaps you're able 听到家人的交谈
to listen to your family talk about things, 能听别人为你读书
have books read to you. 或许你也能交谈
Maybe you can engage in conversation, 但你不能举起手臂  等等
even though you can't use your arms and so forth. 你的生活还值得过下去
Your life's still worth living, 但该来的总会来
but the time's going to come 你的生活会变得不值得过下去
when your life won't be worth living. 但是这时
And at that point, 你不再有能力杀死自己
you'll no longer have the ability to kill yourself, 因为你控制不了自己的身体
because you won't have control over your body. 这引起的问题是
It raises the question of-- 我想大家都看得到这一点
I'm sure you can all see at this point, 也就是说自杀问题伴随着
the question of suicide also turns into or comes up against, 安乐死的问题
the question about euthanasia, mercy killing. 在什么情况下
Under what circumstances 有理由让别人杀死自己
is it ever rational to ask somebody else to kill you? 在什么情况下  如果有的话
Under what circumstances, if ever, 杀死另一人符合道德
is it morally legitimate to kill somebody else? 但我们还是继续关注自杀问题
But let's continue to focus on the case of suicide. 假设你生活在一个
Suppose you live in a 不开化的社会里
society which is so unenlightened 那里禁止安乐死
as to have ruled out euthanasia. 事实上  你生活在我们这个社会里
In fact, you live in our society. 我们就不允许
And so, what we don't allow 在你想放弃生命的时候
is the possibility of somebody else coming along 别人过来杀死你
and killing you when the time comes. 所以  你知道总有一天
So, you know the time is going to come 你会生不如死
at which you'd be better off dead. 但等到了那个时候
But once you're there, once you're here, 一切都太晚了
it's too late. 你做不到了
You can't do it. 你没能力杀死自己了
You won't have the ability to kill yourself, 而且没人能帮的上你
and nobody else will be able to do it for you. 在这种情况下
In that case, 早一点杀死自己仍然是合理的选择
killing yourself earlier might still make sense. 比如在这时
Take this earlier point, for example. 如果你在这时杀死自己
Here, if you kill yourself now, 你放弃了一些值得过下去的日子
you're throwing away some life that's worth living. 但如果这是你
But if this is the last moment at 有能力杀死自己的最后时刻
which you're going to be able to kill yourself, 这在道理上仍然说得通
it might still make sense, rationally. 你可以选择的不是
Because your choice is not 在这时自杀还是在这时自杀
end it here or end it there. 我们假设你无法在这时自杀
We're assuming you don't have the possibility of ending it here, 正好在生活变得不值得过下去时自杀
at the precise moment at which life became no longer worth having. 你能选择的只是
Your choice, instead, is really just this. 在这时自杀  放弃后面所有的生活
End it here and throw away this whole last bit. 或者不在这时自杀
Or not end it 一直等到疾病夺去你的生命
and then continue until you die from the disease. 所以  你的问题只是
So, your question is only, 我如何看待后面这些生活的价值
what do I think about the value of this last bit? 总体来讲
On the whole, 会是好的还是坏的
it's got a good part and it's god a bad part. 是得到这种好坏掺杂的生活呢
Is it better to have the good part and the bad part 还是什么也不得到
or better to have none of it? 答案是
And the answer, of course, is well, 如果坏日子会持续很长时间
if the bad part's going to continue long enough, 那么什么也得不到最好
it's better to have none of it. 坏日子抵消了好日子
The bad outweighs the good. 那么合理的选择就是
So that the rational thing to do 在这时结束你的生命
would be to decide to end your life then, 趁你还能这么做
when you still can, 而不是让自己忍受
rather than condemn yourself 那漫长的不值得过下去的日子
to the long final stretch of life not worth living. 那么  如果你能控制自己生命的
Well, what if the last time 最后时刻在这里  又将如何
that you could actually control it was way back here, 不管因为什么原因吧
for whatever reason it is. 这里  你有机会杀死自己
Here, you've got access to the means of killing yourself 但此后再无机会
and you won't have access later. 你的生活还会有一段很长的好日子
Your life's still going to be great for a very long time. 然后  不可避免的
And then, inevitably, 有个阶段会变差
it'll be bad for a period of time. 如果我画的不错
But at least if I've drawn it right, 我们可以缩短这段时间
if not, we can shorten this. 我们假设死亡这时来临
I suppose death would come here. 如果你现在不自杀
Here's a case where if you don't kill yourself now, 你就将忍受整个人生
you're condemning yourself to the whole rest of the story. 但我们会说  好吧
But we might say, "All right. 虽然不可否认
Although, admittedly, 生命的后期会不值得过下去
the end of the story's going to be negative, 但避免最后生不如死的日子的唯一办法
the only way to avoid that negative last part 是放弃开始阶段漫长的美好生活
is to throw away this very long great initial part." 这不合理
That doesn't make sense. 尽管你的生活仍将
Although your life is now still going 好坏掺杂
to be a mixture of good and bad, 你希望有办法在这里结束生命
and you wish there were a way to end it here, 但你没有办法
you don't have that choice. 或者全部放弃  或者全部保留
It's throw away the good and the bad, or keep them both. 在这个例子里  很明显
And in this story, obviously enough, 好事情多于坏事情
the good is enough to outweigh the bad. 所以自杀在这种情况下不合理
So, suicide doesn't make sense in that situation. 这里是另一种很不同的生活
Here's a rather different way the story might go. 假设你一直过得很好
Suppose your life's going along really great 然后变差
and it takes a turn for the worse 但又重新好起来
but then is going to get better. 然后  直到自然死亡
So, it ends here with death by natural causes. 这时自杀合理吗
Could suicide make sense here? 有没有理由说
Does it make sense to say, 看  为了避免生活质量下降
"Look, I'm going to kill myself 我要杀死我自己
in order to avoid the downturn" 或者
Or indeed, 即使重新变好的日子不那么长
even if the recovery wasn't so long a recovery, 这时自杀合理吗
could suicide make sense here, 因为你要经历这么一个低谷
because you're about to take this big dip down 而且你以后的生活
and be condemned to most of the rest of your life 都会比前面的生活差
being significantly worse than it was before? 不  这种情况下自杀不合理
No, suicide doesn't make sense in this situation. 因为  即使你将要过的生活
Because even though what you're going to have during this period 没有你以前的好
is a life worse than the life you had before, 但这个生活还是在X轴以上的
the life you've got here is still above the x-axis. 还是一个值得过下去的生活
It's still a life worth living. 我认为这一点很关键
This point, I think, is probably crucial enough 值得仔细思考
that it's worth taking a moment to reflect on. 你过得没有以前好
The fact that your life is less good than it had been, 没有周围所有人好
less good than indeed maybe all the lives around you are having-- 所有你身边的人
all the people around you 都过得比你好
are having lives that are better than yours-- 仍然不能说明你的生活糟糕到
still doesn't mean that your life is so bad 你死了会更好
that you're better off dead. 这一点很容易忽视  不是吗
It's easy to lose sight of that, right? 这时生活质量开始下滑
Here we are sliding down 我们只能看到生活在变差
and all we see is the fact that we're moving down. 很自然我们会想到
It's natural to get caught up in the thought 我还不如死了
"I'm better off dead," 但这不对  你不是死了更好
but it's a mistake. You're not better off dead. 我认为这种情况
This situation, I suppose, 可能是  我总是担心
is probably--I always worry when I spend-- 每次讲到自杀话题都在担心
when I end this class talking about suicide, 青少年最大的死因是什么
because what's the major cause of death among teenagers? 是自杀
Well, it's suicide. 这一点儿也不奇怪
That's not really so all that surprising, 因为青少年都很健康
because teenagers are pretty healthy, as people go. 你们要不就是被事故夺去生命
And so the--you're either going to get killed by an accident 要不就被自己夺去生命
or you're going to get killed by doing it to yourself. 这种类型的错误
The kind of mistake 我认为  是导致青少年自杀
that I think leads most teenagers into killing themselves 的主要原因
is something like this. 他们可能和女朋友吹了
They've broken up with their girlfriend. 或者考试不及格
They've flunked out of school. 或者没能上医学院
They didn't get into medical school 或者法学院等等
or law school or what have you. 他们会想  哦  从此以后
And they think to themselves, "Oh, from here on out, 我的生活不值得过下去了
my life's not worth living." 答案是  不对
And the answer is, no, 那只是一件事情而已
that's actually, as an objective matter, 还没到生不如死的地步
probably not the case. 即使你的生活没有你希望的
Even if your life would be less worth living 那么值得过下去
than you had hoped it would be, 但仍然值得过下去
it's still better than nothing. 当然  很典型的情况是
Of course, in the typical case, 我认为是这样的
I suppose what it really looks like is this. 小小的挫折  然后一切又都好了
Small dip then continues wonderfully. 但你一叶障目  没看到将来美好的生活
But you lose sight of all the good stuff yet to come 只被挫折蒙蔽
while you're in the middle of the dip. 所以  尽管我在讨论
So, although I'm taking time now to talk about the question, 在什么情况下
under what circumstances 自杀是合理的选择
might suicide be a rationally justified one? 但我应该强调  我相信
I should hasten to add the remark that I'm fairly confident 如果在座的各位有谁自杀
that for nobody in this class would suicide, 都不会是合理的选择
in fact, be a rational decision. 当然  这不意味着在你以后的生活中
Now, that doesn't mean it couldn't turn out 自杀不是一种合理的选择
to be a rational decision later in your life, 但很明显  现在不是
but that, very likely, overwhelmingly likely, is not one now. 还有一些我们要研究的例子
Well, a couple other cases that I still want to have us consider, 但今天时间不够了
but I think that's probably enough for today, 我们下回再讲
so we'll take it up there next time. 



 Chapter 24: 自杀(二)：犹豫不决的决定


上节课
Last time, 我们讨论了自杀的理性问题
we were discussing the rationality of suicide. 我们把自杀的理性问题
We separated the question of the rationality of suicide 和自杀的道德问题区分开来
from the ethics of suicide or the morality of suicide. 后面我们会谈到自杀的道德问题
We'll be turning to the morality of suicide later today. 自杀的理性问题里首先谈到的是
But the first question in thinking about the rationality of suicide was 是否存在这种情况
whether or not it could actually be the case 有些人死了会更好
that somebody would be better off dead. 根据前面讲的
Having argued that, 至少在我看来  比较正确的说法是
at least on what struck me as the more plausible theory is, 有这种可能
that was a possibility. 我们然后又谈论了在什么情况下
We then turned to the question of under what circumstances, 更确切
more particularly-- 可能也是更好的说法是
or perhaps the better way to put it, 在什么时间
at what point-- 自杀可能是合理的
would it be true that suicide might be rational? 讨论这个问题
In tackling the question, 我们先不考虑
we were initially bracketing the question 你能否理性地判断
about whether you could ever reasonably or rationally judge 自己所处的境况
that the circumstances actually obtained. 过几分钟我们再谈这个问题
We'll turn to that question in a few minutes. 我们开始关注的只是
The question we were focusing on originally was just, 从客观的角度出发
from the objective perspective, as it were, 什么样的人生走向
what does the graph need to look like 表明情况已经糟糕到
in order for it to be the case 你死了会更好
that you'd be better off dead 自杀会是合理的选择
and suicide would be a rational choice? 我画了些不同的图形和曲线
I drew a variety of different graphs, different lines 代表你生活的起落沉浮
about your life doing better or worse, 每个都标注了
and noted for each one of them, 在哪个时间点  如果有的话
at what point, if ever, 自杀也许是合理的选择
suicide might be a reasonable choice. 在结束这个讨论之前
I want to draw a couple of more graphs 我想再多画几个图形
before ending this bit of the discussion. 先回忆一下坐标轴
You'll recall the axes. X轴代表时间
The x axis represents time. Y轴代表你的生活
The y axis represents 总的来说有多好或者多坏
how good or bad your life is overall, 如果你接受"有价容器"理论的话
taking into account the value of being alive, per se, 这里还要考虑生命本身的价值
if you accept a valuable container theory. 线条越高  你这时的生活就越好
The higher the line, the better your life is at that time. 线条越低  你这时的生活就越差
The lower the line, the worse your life is at that time. 你也许会说  比较简单的例子
You might say, the easy cases, 至少从哲学上来看
at least in the philosophical point of view, 就是生活变得不好
are ones where things get worse. 最终  你生不如死
Eventually, your life becomes worse than nothing. 你死了会更好
You'd be better off dead. 而且这种情况会持续下去
And it's going to stay that way 直到你自然死亡
until such time as you might die from natural causes. 因自然原因死去
Dying from natural causes. 在这种情况下
In a situation like this, 在这个时间以后自杀都是合理的
killing yourself from here on out would make sense, 假设你了解事情的真相
assuming you knew the facts, 可以相信自己的判断  等等
could trust your judgment, and so forth and so on. 这些问题我们一会儿再谈
Some of the issues that we'll come back to in a minute. 正如大家看到的
And indeed, as we saw, 甚至有时
there will be even cases in which 你早点自杀也可能是合理的
it might make sense to kill yourself earlier, 如果这就是
if this was the last chance at which 你能自杀的最后机会
you had the ability to kill yourself or not, 即使你放弃了一段
even though you'd be giving up some life 值得过下去的日子
that was worth living, 但这是避免更长一段
that was the only way to avoid 不值得过下去的日子的唯一方法
a much larger chunk of life that was not worth living. 所以  自杀也还是合理的
So, suicide might still make sense. 另一方面
On the other hand, 如果你自杀的最后机会在这里
if the choice was way back here, 尽管  这么早自杀
although this is--killing yourself early on 是避免将来那段
would be the only way to avoid 不值得过下去的日子的唯一方法
the later chunk not worth living, 如果这段日子足够短
at least if that chunk's small enough-- 假设是这样的
suppose it was like this 你会说  这么早自杀不合情理
you'd say it doesn't make sense to kill yourself this early. 因为你放弃的太多了
You'd be throwing away too much, 即使这是避免坏事情的唯一方法
even though that's the only way to avoid the bad stuff. 像我说的
Now, as I say, 这是个比较简单的图形
that's the easy graph, 你的生活从值得过下去
where you go from a life worth living 变成不值得过下去
to a life not worth living 并且一直持续下去
and it stays there. 但假如不是这样
But suppose instead, 情况是这样的
we have a situation like this. 这里  这个阶段你生不如死
Here, life becomes worse than nothing for a while, 但后来又好了
but you recover. 你重新过上有价值的生活
You're going to return to a life that's worth having. 假设重新变好以后
And suppose that after you recover, 你第三阶段的生活非常好
you'll have a very nice third stage, 人生的第三幕
third act of your life 然后你寿终正寝  自然死亡
before you would eventually die of natural causes or natural death. 这里的关键在于
Here, the crucial point to make, of course, 即使有这么一段时间
is that even though for a while 你生不如死
your life will be worse than nothing, 总的来讲是负数
negative overall, 也不意味着
it doesn't mean that it 你在这时自杀是合理的
makes sense to kill yourself at this point. 因为  当然
Because, of course, 虽然你在这时自杀
although it's true that if you do kill yourself here, 确实能避免这段不好的日子
you're avoiding this negative chunk, 在X轴下方的这一块
this bit below the x axis, 但你同时也放弃了美好的第三阶段
doing that also throws away the very large third act 在这一阶段你的生活将重归幸福
where your life returns to being better than nothing. 由于这种选择同时获得或放弃两个阶段
Since the choices have neither of these, or both, 而美好的第三阶段
and the positive third act 又大到足以抵消糟糕的第二阶段
is great enough to outweigh the negative second act, 所以总的来讲
on balance, 你自杀就是不合理的
it doesn't make sense. 但是当然
But of course-- 所以即使你有一段
So even though your life might be 生不如死的日子
worse than nothing for some stretch, 自杀也不见得就是合理的选择
suicide wouldn't necessarily be a rational decision. 但是  得到这一结论的关键在于
But it's crucial in making that argument, 我一直称它为"三段理论"
that the--what I've been calling the third act. 这是第一阶段  这是第二阶段
Here's act one, here's act two, 这是第三阶段
here's act three. 得到这一结论的关键在于
It's crucial in making this argument 第三阶段要足够好
is that the third act was sufficiently great, 时间足够长  质量足够高
sufficiently long and sufficiently high 它抵消并超过了糟糕的第二阶段
that it outweighs the bad of the second act. 从我画的图上看确实如此
And although that's true the way I've drawn the graph, 但我们可以想象另一种情况
we could imagine that it wasn't quite like that. 假设在  不值得过下去的
Suppose that after the second act, 第二阶段之后
in which your life is not worth living, 你的生活又重新变好
you will recover and 进入第三阶段
have a third act in 总的来说  你的生活又有了价值
which life once again is good for you, overall. 但在这一点上
Still at this point, 第三阶段并不足以抵消第二阶段
act three doesn't outweigh act two. 尽管有所恢复
Although there's a recovery, 但时间太短  质量也不够高
it's too short and not high enough 不足以抵消第二阶段的坏处
to outweigh the bad of act two. 所以  在这种情况下
And so, under that circumstance, 当你问自己
when you ask yourself, 比方说  在这个时候自杀是否合理
let's say at this moment, would suicide here be rational? 答案很可能是"是的"
the answer could well be "Yes." 尽管自杀会使你失去
Although in killing yourself you've given up act three, 美好的第三阶段
which would be good for you overall, 但这样做是避免糟糕的第二阶段的
doing that's the only way to avoid act two, which is 唯一方法
bad for you overall, 它的坏处超过了第三阶段的好处
and sufficiently bad to outweigh the good of act three. 所以如果你在这时自杀
So, if you've got the choice of suicide here, 仍然可能是合理的
it might well be rational. 请注意  关键在于
Notice however, that the crucial point, 我们在何时谈论
again, is when are we talking about 自杀的可能性
the possibility of committing suicide? 在这时自杀可能是合理的
Committing suicide here might be rational, 但没必要  而且完全没必要
but not necessarily, indeed not at all, 在这时才自杀
at this later moment. 因为在这一刻
Because at this point, 你刚熬过了第二阶段
the fact that you've gone through act two 它已成历史
is now history. 无可挽回了
There's nothing you can do about it. 你已经走过了人生中的严冬
You've had this horrible period of your life 现在它结束了
and now it's over. 你的问题不是
Your question is not, 能否避免第二阶段
can you avoid act two? 现在谈这个已经太晚了
It's too late for that. 你只要问自己
You're simply asking yourself, 我觉得第三阶段怎么样
what do I think about act three? 我应该避免第三阶段吗
Should I avoid act three? 而这是没道理的
And that doesn't make sense. 我们已经假定
We've stipulated that 第三阶段总体来说对你有益
act three is good for you overall. 所以这里  自杀不再合理
So here, suicide no longer makes sense, 尽管在这里还有可能是合理的
even though it would have made sense over here. 有趣的是  这些可能性
The interesting point is that these possibilities 并不仅仅是理论上的可能性
are not mere theoretical possibilities, 而是现实中的可能性
but actually can happen. 在生命伦理文献中
There's a famous case of, 有一个著名的案例
in the bioethics literature, 说的是一个人遭到
of somebody who suffered 可怕的大面积烧伤
a horrible set of burns over a great deal of their body 要有一个时期
and had to go through a period, 一个相当长的时期
a very long period, 住院恢复
of recovery in which they were hospitalized, 不能移动  疼痛难当
basically immobilized and in a great deal of pain, 等着他的神经再生
while their nerves regenerated 皮肤移植什么的
and their skin regrafted and the like. 在这一阶段的初期  这个人说
And early on in that period, this person said, 尽管他相信他最终会康复
although he believed that he'd eventually recover, 但他要经历的痛苦太可怕了
what he was going to have to go through was so horrible 他希望他已经死了
that he wished he were dead. 因为他住院治疗
Because of the nature of his hospitalization, 所以他无法自杀
he wasn't able to kill himself. 他要求安乐死  但人们不同意
He asked that he be killed and people refused. 他熬过了一段时间
He went through a period 而且终于康复
and sure enough, he recovered. 最终他说  是的
And eventually, he said, "Yes. 现在我的生活又值得过下去了
Now my life is worth living again. 当然  因为值得过下去
And of course, since it is worth living, 就算我现在能自杀
now that I'm able to kill myself, 我也没理由自杀了
it no longer makes sense for me to kill myself. 因为我已经  他会说
Because here I am," As he might put it, 在值得过下去的第三阶段中了
in act three with a life worth living. 但不管怎么说
But for all that, 即使我现在的生活值得过下去
even though I now have a life worth living, 我还是认为
I haven't changed my opinion 对我来说最好能回到这里
that it would have been better for me back here 在第二阶段之初就安乐死
toward the beginning of act two for me to have been killed, 就能死掉
or for me to have died. 我仍然希望我在这时就已经死了
It remains the case that I wish I had died here, 这样就能避免经历那些痛苦
so as to avoid all the pain and suffering, 即使我现在生活在一个总体上不错
even though I'm now in a period which is better for me, 对我有益的时期
good for me overall." 好的  另一种情况
All right. One other case. 这只是重复
This is just repeating 我前面讲的一个观点
a point that actually I made very early on. 在我讲述的所有
In all of these cases where 有理由自杀的案例中
I've argued for the rationality of suicide, 这些生活最终都在X轴以下
it's because eventually the line has dipped below the x axis. 关键要记住
The crucial point to remember is, 即使你的生活急转直下
even if your situation deteriorates 而且不再好转
and indeed doesn't recover, 也不说明自杀是合理的
that still doesn't make suicide rational. 我们关注的不是
The question is not, 我过得是否比以前差
am I worse off than I had been or 是否比没变差以前要糟糕
than I might have been had I not had the decline? 我们关注的是
The question in thinking about the rationality of suicide is, 我的生活是否糟糕到我死了会更好
am I so badly off that I'm better off dead? 如果你的生活足够富足而且有价值
And if your life is a sufficiently rich and valuable one, 它变差的空间就非常大
there's a great deal of room for going down, 过得差了一些
having a worse life, 但最终仍然有价值
while still ending up at a life better than nothing. 在这种情况下  当然
In that case, of course, 自杀根本就没有道理
suicide's not rational at all. 不过  我仍然认为
Still, it does seem to me that 确实有这种情况
there are cases in which 生活质量在X轴以下
the line does cut below the x axis 并持续相当长的时间
and remains there for a sufficiently long time, 也可能就一直持续下去
perhaps remains there forever, 所以这个人死了会更好
so that the person is better off dead. 这时我们可能会说
And so we might say, 从这一点来看
from that point of view, 如果这个人能够认清事实
if only the person could recognize the facts 明确知道自己生活的走势
and know for a certainty that's what their line was going to looklike, 自杀在一定程度上就是合理的
suicide would at certain points be rational. 当然  这就意味着我们要
Still, that means we need to turn to 探讨问题的第二部分
the second part of the question. 不相信有理由自杀的人会说  看
Somebody who believes suicide cannot be rational might say, look, 整个事情不过就是一句"如果你能"
the whole game is in the phrase I just used. 当然  如果你能看清事实
Sure, there are situations in which if only you knew the facts, 如果你能有个水晶球
if only you had a crystal ball and knew 确切地知道自己人生
for a certainty this is what my life 从此之后的走势
is going to go on from here on out, 那么自杀就可能是合理的
then suicide would be rational. 但是当然  我们没有水晶球
But of course, we never have a crystal ball. 我们不能保证
We never have the guarantee that 这就是我们人生的道路
this is how the line's going to go. 所以  我们现在要探讨的问题是
So, the question we need to turn to now is, 你能否有理由判断
could it be rational for you to judge that 你的生活会每况愈下
your situation is one in which the line's going to go below 不会好转  或者很长时间不会好转
and stay below, or stay below long enough, 以至总的来说
so that on balance, 你死了会更好
you'd be better off dead? 我们假设有这种情况
Let's suppose that somebody's situation is like that, 或者至少有可能有这种情况
or at least there can be situations like that. 你怎么有理由判断
Could it ever be reasonable to judge 你的情况就是这样
that your situation is like that? 如果你是这样
And if so, 你怎么有理由
could it ever then be reasonable to 根据这个判断自杀
act on that judgment and end your life? 我们先不考虑道德问题
We're still bracketing questions about morality. 我们仍然从个人的
Here we're still looking at things from the personal, 理性的角度来探讨它
rational perspective. 又一次
And once again, 我要区分两类问题
what I want to do next is distinguish two questions. 我要区分
I want to distinguish between questions about 如果你思路清晰  情况如何
what should we say if you were thinking clearly 如果你思路混乱  情况如何
versus what should we say if your thinking is clouded. 你可能又要想了  看
Again, one might think, look, 如果生活差到了有理由自杀
in the type of cases where suicide might be rationally warranted, 那么你肯定承受很大压力
it's going to be so stressful, 没人能在这种情况下保持思路清晰
that nobody can think clearly in the middle of that situation. 所以  即使在你思路清晰时
And so even if it were true that you could reasonably decide 决定自杀有可能是合理的
to commit suicide if only you were thinking clearly, 也没人真能做到这一点
nobody does think clearly. 我们一会再回来讨论这种顾虑
Let's come back to that worry in a moment. 我们假定
Let's assume for the moment 你能认清自己的处境
that you can think clearly about your situation. 可能你得了某种疼痛难忍的疾病
Perhaps you've got some sort of painful disease, 但是这种病不是一直发作
but the disease is not painful constantly. 有时候它会停下来
There are periods in which it comes to an end, 这时  你能判断自己的处境
brief periods in which you're able to assess your situation, 权衡轻重
weigh up the facts. 在这种情况下
Could it ever be rational in that situation 你是否有理由决定自杀
to decide to kill yourself? 我说过  我们没有水晶球
Well, as I say, we don't have a crystal ball. 如果你真有水晶球
If you did have a crystal ball, 如果你确切知道
if you knew for a certainty 你的生活糟糕到如此地步
that your line was so bad 它在零以下  不会好转
that it was below zero and wasn't going to recover, 我们可能就会说
perhaps we'd say, 是啊  在这种情况下
yeah, in that case, 自杀是合理的
it would be rational to commit suicide. 但我们没有水晶球
But we don't have a crystal ball. 那我们该怎么办
What should we say then? 反对自杀的人可能会说
The critics of suicide might come back and say, 既然你没有水晶球
well look, since you don't have a crystal ball, 既然你无法认定情况不会好转
since you never know for sure that you won't recover, 既然总有咸鱼翻身的可能
since there's always a possibility of recovery, 那么自杀绝对是没道理的
suicide never makes sense. 不论如何
After all, 我们都知道医疗水平一直在进步
we all know that there's constant progress in medicine. 人们不断取得突破
People are always making breakthroughs 现在的不治之症
and what seems like an incurable disease 也许有一天就可以治愈了
one day may have some sort of cure the next. 如果你自杀了
But if you killed yourself, 你就放弃了治愈的机会
you've thrown away any chance of getting that cure. 而且即使医院救不了你
And even if medical cures don't come around, 某些疾病有时也会奇迹般地自愈
various diseases sometimes simply have miraculous remissions. 有些人可能自己就好了
Somebody might just get better spontaneously. 一切都有可能
That's always a possibility. 虽说不常发生
It doesn't happen very often, 但确实发生过
but it does happen now and then. 再说一次  如果你自杀了
And again, if you've killed yourself, 你就放弃了任何好起来的机会
you've thrown away any chance of recovery. 所以反对自杀的人可能会说
So the critics of suicide might say, 只要还有机会
given that there's a chance, 不管有多渺茫  能够康复
however small, of recovery, 不管是通过医疗水平的进步
whether through medical progress 抑或仅仅是医学上的奇迹
or just some sort of medical miracle-- 但是当然  如果你自杀了
but of course, if you kill yourself 就没有机会了
there's no chance of recovery-- 所以说  自杀是不合理的
given that, it doesn't make any sense. 自杀不可能是合理的
It can't make sense rationally to kill yourself. 我们不时听到这类貌似严谨的观点
That sort of position gets articulated now and again. 但是我认为它肯定是错的
But I think it's got to be mistaken. 我们的确没有水晶球
It's true that we don't have a crystal ball, 所以在决定是否自杀的时候
and so in deciding whether to kill yourself, 你做的其实是在碰运气
what you're doing is playing the odds. 你在赌博
You're gambling. 但是  赌博是我们常做的事
But still, gambling is something we do all the time. 我们确实无法回避
Indeed, there is no getting away from the fact 在自杀的案例中
that in the suicide case, 那些得了绝症的病人
in the case of some terminally ill patient, 或者至少看上去得了绝症的病人
or at least somebody who appears to be terminally ill, 我们无法回避
there is no getting away from the fact 不论他/她做出何种决定
that regardless of what decision he or she makes, 他们都是在赌博
they are gambling. 赌博  碰运气
Gambling, playing the odds, 是我们生活中做决定的一种方式
just is one of the facts of life about how we have to decide. 我们需要在不确定时做出决定
We have to make our decisions under uncertainty. 现在  假设有人说
Now, suppose somebody says then, 看  既然大家都同意
look, since we agree that 我们是在不确定时做出决定
we're deciding under uncertainty, 那么就没理由
it doesn't make sense 放弃康复的稍许机会
to throw away the small chance of recovery. 那么我想说
Then I want to say, 这似乎不符合我们通常
that doesn't seem to be in keeping with the rules 在赌博时做决定的原则
that we would normally use in deciding how to face a gamble. 这间教室的后面有两扇门
At the back of this room there are two doors. 我们就讲一个
So let's tell a little fantasy, 关于两扇门的科幻故事
science fiction story about the two doors. 下课后
After class is over, 你将决定
you're going to have to decide 自己要走哪扇门
which one of these doors to go through. 假设  如果你走一号门
Let's suppose that if you go through door one, 我们几乎可以肯定
it's virtually guaranteed that what will happen is 你会被绑架
you'll be kidnapped 绑匪会折磨你一个星期
and your kidnappers will then torture you for a week, 之后有可能会放了你
after which perhaps you'll be released. 几乎可以肯定
Virtually certain, 90%  99%  也可能是99.9%的肯定
90% certain, 99% certain, perhaps 99.9% certain. 只有千分之一  或许万分之一的机会
There's a small chance, 1 in 1,000, 1 in 10,000, 你不会被绑架和折磨
that you won't be kidnapped and tortured. 相反  你会去热带度一个美妙的假期
Instead, you'll be whisked away to a wonderful, tropical vacation 过上一周神仙般的日子
where you'll have a fantastic time for a week. 可能性很小
Not very likely, 但也不是完全没有  千分之一
but not impossible, 1 in 1,000; 万分之一  也许更少
1 in 10,000, maybe less. 这就是走一号门的后果
That's if you go through door one. 一号门有99.99%的机会
Door one has 99.99% chance of 受到一周的折磨
a week of torture, 有0.01%或0.001%  等等
and a 0.01 or 0.001, whatever it is, 的机会得到美妙假期
percent chance of wonderful vacation. 另一方面  如果你走二号门
On the other hand, if you go through door number two, 百分之百要发生的事是
100% certainty that the following is going to happen. 你将立即昏睡过去
You will immediately fall asleep. 陷入一星期的深度无梦的睡眠中
You'll be in a deep, dreamless state for the week, 一周后你会醒来
at which point you'll wake up. 那么  你会怎么做
Well, what should you do? 你要如何选择
What should you pick? 不是说一个肯定受折磨
It's not quite certainty of being tortured 一个肯定会昏睡
versus certainty of sleeping. 如果一个肯定受折磨
If it was certainty of being tortured 一个肯定会昏睡
versus certainty of sleeping, 我想我们都同意
I suppose we'd all agree 应该走二号门
the thing to do is to go through door number two. 昏睡没什么好的  可是另一方面
Sleep's nothing positive, but on the other hand, 它也没什么不好
it's nothing negative. 我想如果用一个数字来表示它
I suppose if we were going to slap a number on it, 那就应该是零
we'd give it a zero. 但是折磨明显是负数
But torture is clearly a negative. 如果是一周的折磨
And if it's a week of torture, 那就是一个相当大的负数
it's a very large negative. 所以  就是零与一个很大的负数相比
So, it's zero versus some huge negative number. 确定性与确定性相比
Certainty versus certainty, 你会选哪个
what should you pick? 我想  我们都会同意
We'd all agree, I presume, 选择二号门
you should pick door number two 选择不做梦地睡一星期
and pick the dreamless sleep for a week. 但我们想起来  等一下
Now we remember, but wait a minute, 你也不一定就会被折磨
it wasn't certain that you were going to be tortured, 只是非常非常非常可能
it was just very, very, very likely 你会被折磨
that you were going to be tortured. 想象一下如果有人说
And imagine if somebody says, 你要去拿个金牌
oh, you must go for the gold. 去走一号门
Go for door number one. 当然  极有可能你会受到折磨
Sure, it's overwhelming likely that you're going to be tortured. 但是有很小的机会
But there's a very small chance 你会得到一个美妙的假期
that you'll get this wonderful vacation. 反之  如果你选择了二号门
Whereas, if you pick door number two, 你就放弃了那个机会
you're throwing that chance away. 所以  唯一合理的决定
And so, the only rational decision 就是选择一号门
must be to pick door number one, 抓住那个机会
to hold out for that chance, 不管得到美妙假期的机会有多小
no matter how small of getting that fantastic vacation. 这才是唯一合理的决定
That's the only rational decision. 如果有人想这样说  我会笑话他们
If anybody were to say that, I'd laugh at them. 我想说  看  如果你说的是
I'd say look, if you want to talk about, 也许有些权衡的空间
well maybe there's room for choice either way, 这取决于假期好到什么程度
it depends how great the vacation is, 如此这般
something like that. 那么  可能还有讨论的余地
Yeah, there's maybe room for talk. 但是如果你坚持认为唯一合理的决定
But if you want to insist that the only rational decision 就是抓住那个美妙假期的机会
must be to hold out for the chance of a wonderful vacation, 不管机会有多渺茫
no matter how small the odds-- 而且如果你没得到那个美妙假期
given that if you don't get that wonderful vacation, 你就会受到折磨
you're going to be tortured 你本可以通过
and you could avoid all that 选择昏睡来避免它
by picking the sleep option-- 如果有人面对这一切仍要坚持
if somebody insisted in the face of all that, 唯一合理的决定就是走那扇
that the only rational decision is to go through the door 很可能带来折磨的门
which is likely to be torture 去争取微乎其微的度假机会
and a vanishingly small chance of vacation, 我会说他们是错的
I'd say they're just wrong. 因为概率太小  这不是个合理的决定
That's not a rationally required decision, given the odds. 好的  请问
Yes, question? 很好  问题是这样的
Great. So, the question was this. 关键在于
The point was, 我举这个例子可能是在作弊
perhaps I'm cheating in making the example this way, 因为死亡当然不是
because death of course, isn't--of course, 你们可能都被误导了
what you're all supposed to be lulled 认为死亡
into thinking is that death, 选择死亡  选择自杀
choosing death, choosing suicide, 就像选择睡眠一样
is sort of like choosing to be asleep, 无梦的睡眠  可仍然是睡眠
a state of dreamless sleep, but sleep nonetheless. 所以说我在作弊
And the suggestion then was I'm cheating, 是因为死亡是永远的
because death is forever. 我故意用一周的折磨和
I deliberately framed the example in terms of being tortured for a week 一周的昏睡来举例子
versus being asleep for a week. 可能基于这个前提
And perhaps given that choice, 那么明显合理的决定
it's clearly rationally acceptable to decide 就是选择昏睡一周
that you'd rather pick the sleep for a week option. 但死亡不只是一周的事
But death isn't just for a week. 如果你自杀  你就永远死去了
If you commit suicide, you're dead forever. 那么  让我们换个例子吧
So, let's change the example. 假设  大多数同学
Suppose that--you guys are mostly, 我估计  都20岁左右
I suppose, in the vicinity of 20s, 假设你走出一号门
suppose that if you go through door number one, 就极有可能
there's an overwhelmingly likely chance, 90%  99%  或99.9%的可能
90%, 99%, 99.9% chance 被绑架和折磨
that you'll be kidnapped and tortured. 而这场折磨将持续
And the torture will take place and last for 50  60  70年  直到你死去
another 50, 60, 70 years and then you die. 只有很小的机会  千分之一
There's a slight chance, a 10th of a percent, 万分之一
a 100th of a percent 你不但不会被折磨50  60  70年
that no, no, you won't be tortured for the 50, 60, 70 years, 反而会去一个天堂般的热带小岛
but instead, you'll be brought to this tropical island paradise 开开心心地过50年
where you'll have this great time for the next 50 years. 但是100次里有99次
But what has happened in 99 out of 100 cases, 或者1000次里有999次
or 999 out of 1,000 cases, 或者10000次里有9999次
or 9,999 out of 10,000 cases, 你会落入魔爪
is the torture scenario. 当人们受折磨时
While the people are being tortured, 他们会乞求恩惠
they beg for mercy. 只求速死
They beg to be put to death. 他们希望他们已经死了
They wish they were dead. 他们所受折磨十分残酷
It is truly the case that the tortures are so bad 他们的确生不如死
that these people are better off dead. 请记住  我们假设
Remember, we're assuming that you've got a case 你真的是生不如死
where you really will be better off dead 除非发生奇迹
unless the miraculous recovery takes place. 所以  我们要问
And so again, we have to ask, 在这样的情况下
in a situation like that 当一个人  当然同样
where the person says--and similarly of course, 如果你走出二号门
if you go through door number two, 你会马上睡着
you immediately fall asleep, 并且会一直睡70年
and you stay that way for the next 70 years, 最终在昏睡中死去
and then you die while in your coma. 支持走一号门的人认为
The fan of door number one comes along and says 唯一合理的决定就是选择一号门
the only rational decision is to pick door number one, 虽然走出这扇门极可能
where it's overwhelmingly likely 要面对未来50  60  70年的折磨
that you face 50 years or 60 years or 70 years of torture. 但是  如果你选择二号门
Because, of course, if you were to pick door number two, 你就放弃了机会  不管有多渺茫
you're throwing away your chance, no matter how small. 你就放弃了
You're throwing away the 拥有美妙假期的唯一机会
only chance you have of the wonderful vacation. 我们每个人都要做出自己的决定
Well, each of us has to decide for themselves. 可当我思考后面这个例子时
But when I think about this case, this modified case, 我仍想说  选择二号门
I still want to say choosing door number two 是非常合理的决定
could be a perfectly rational decision. 你不能说唯一合理的决定
It's just not right to say the only rational decision 就是一号门
is door number one. 如果有人比较温和地说
Again, if somebody wanted to take a more modest position and say, 这取决于假期的美妙程度
it depends on how great the vacation would be, 折磨的残酷程度
how mild the torture would be, 取决于1%的机会还是5%的机会
maybe 1% chances versus a 5% chance-- 我们有空间去讨论  什么情况下
there's room for debate about when might the balance come closer to 我们有理由去冒险
even so it would be reasonable to take the chance. 是的  我们有讨论的余地
Yeah, there's room for debate. 但如果机会太小
But if the chances are small enough 而这个人仍然坚持
and the person insists nonetheless, 无论机会有多小
no matter how small the chances are, 选择二号门都是不合理的
it could never be rational to pick door number two, 那我只能说  这不符合
I can only say that doesn't seem to be the way 我们正常思考和做决定的方式
we would normally think about making choices. 当然  你能看到
And of course, at this point, you can see 这和自杀中的争论一模一样
how the argument exactly carries over to suicide. 如果你自杀了
If you kill yourself, 你就永远放弃了时来运转的机会
you're throwing away forever any chance of recovery. 这点很重要  值得考虑
And that's important and that's worth thinking about. 但同样值得考虑的是
But it's also important to think about 好起来的机会有多大
what was the chance of recovery? 机会有多大  或者更准确地说
How large, or more to the point, 有多小
just how small? 如果不自杀  你过得会有多惨
And how badly off will you be if you don't commit suicide? 你们都20多岁  当然
You guys are 20, but of course, 面对这些问题的人也许
these sorts of choices also perhaps get faced by people 都比你们大许多
who are considerably older 在一些退行性疾病的晚期
and now in the final stages of some progressive disease. 医生会告诉患者
The doctor's told them, 可能他们已经70岁了
perhaps they're 70, 他们基本没希望好起来
that there's no significant chance of recovery. 虽然有时也会好起来
Sometimes it happens, 但机会不超过百分之一或千分之一
but no more than 1 in 100 or 1 in 1,000. 可是  如果你继续活下去
But if you continue alive, 你很可能会痛苦不堪
you will be in, well, perhaps great pain, 可能做不了那些
perhaps unable to do the various things 有意义有价值的事情
that give your life meaning and value. 难道从来没有理由
Could it be true that it would never be rational, 在你头脑清醒的情况下
provided that you're thinking clearly, 从来没有理由说  看
never rational to say, look, 这件坏事发生的可能性如此之大
the chances of something negative are so overwhelmingly great, 以至于即使自杀会失去
that even though deciding for death throws away 少许好起来的机会
whatever small chance I've got of recovery, 这一机会如此渺茫
the chance of recovery is so small that on balance, 所以有理由放弃这个机会
it's reasonable to throw that chance away 以避免极有可能发生的坏事情
and avoid the overwhelmingly likely possibility 比如说  我会一直过着这种
that I'll continue in my current state 生不如死的生活
with a life not worth living? 看来  如果你头脑清醒
It seems that if you're thinking clearly, 选择自杀在一些情况下就会是合理的
there could be cases in which suicide would be a rational choice. 但我们仍然没解决
But that still leaves us with the question, 也许这是最后一个问题了
well, maybe that's where all the work needs to be done. 这个"头脑清醒"究竟意味着什么
What about this point about thinking clearly? 即使我们承认
Even if we grant, 为了讨论能进行下去
for the sake of argument, 某人的生活可能糟糕透顶
that there could be cases in which the person's life is so bad that 他们死了会更好
they actually are better off dead 而且会一直这样
and they stay that way, 即使我们承认
even if we grant that, 只要这人头脑清醒
if only somebody were thinking clearly, 他就会发现  这时已是山穷水尽
they would see that that was so likely to be the case, 自杀是合理的  理性的选择
that suicide would be a rational or reasonable choice, 但在现实生活中  人们难道不是
still isn't it plausible to think that in real life, 在这种情况下
people can't think clearly about their situation 不能认清自己的处境吗
when they're in situations like that? 看  这可不是坐在教室里
Look, it's one thing for us to be sitting here in this classroom, 当然我希望
where I certainly hope that 没有同学会处于那种情况
none of you are in this kind of situation. 我们坐在这里厘清这个问题一点不难
It's easy for us to be sitting here thinking clearly about it 认识到在哲学上有可能
and recognize the philosophical possibility of 认清自己的处境
thinking clearly about a case 并理性地做出自杀的决定
and realizing that it was a rational decision to end it, 结束自己的生命
end your life. 但是人们实际处于那种情况时
But people who are actually in those situations 无法保持头脑清醒
in point of fact are not able to think clearly. 因为  设想一下
Because just think about it. 要是你的人生糟糕透顶
What would have to be true of you for your life to be so bad 以至于有理由自杀
that suicide might be a rational choice, 你死了会更好
that you'd be better off dead? 显然你会有些疼痛
Odds are you've got to be in some, 实际上不至有些疼痛
indeed more than just some, 你会痛苦不堪
you've got to be in a great deal of pain. 或许是肉体上的剧痛
Probably a great deal of physical pain. 而且  你可能对很多事情
Beyond that, you probably also need to be incapacitated 都已无能为力
in a certain large number of ways, 你可能卧床不起
so that perhaps you're bedridden, 不能和家人交谈
can't enjoy discussions with your family, 不能读诗  不能看电视
can't read poetry, or watch television, 不能做任何事
or whatever it is. 能看电视的生活
A life watching television 未必比你们现在的生活好
may not be as fantastic as the life that you all are able to have, 但它还是聊胜于无
but it might still be better than nothing. 想象这种很糟糕的生活
To imagine a life so bad, 丧失了很多生理机能的人
it's going to have to have so much physical disability 他们情感上的挫折
that the amount of emotional distress 超出了一切
is going to have to be so overwhelming, 有谁能在这种情况下保持头脑清醒呢
how could anybody think clearly in a situation like that? 现在  这个观点会说
And then, the argument might go, 如果你不能保持头脑清醒
if you can't think clearly, 你就没有理由相信自己的判断
you can't rationally decide to trust the judgment you might make that 现在就到了该自杀的时候了
you're in a situation where suicide is a reasonable choice. 你可能做出了判断
You might make the judgment, 但是如果我们问
but if we ask ourselves, 你应该相信自己的判断吗
should you trust your opinion? 很可能  这个观点会说
the odds are, so the argument goes, 不  你不应该相信你的判断
no, you shouldn't trust your opinion, 这就是因为  任何一个
precisely because anybody for whom it would be true 情绪如此悲伤的人
would have to be so emotionally distressed 都不能清晰思考
that they're not able to think clearly. 如果他们不能清晰思考
If they're not able to think clearly, 他们就不能做出可靠的判断
they can't have a judgment that's trustworthy. 如果判断不可靠
If the judgment's not trustworthy, 你就不能相信它
you shouldn't trust it. 所以  自杀绝对不可能
And so, suicide could never 是一种合理的选择
turn out to be a rational opinion after all. 这个观点很有趣
Well, that's an interesting argument. 这个观点比我们前面提到的
It think it's an argument more worth taking seriously 一些反对自杀的其它观点
than some of the other ones, some of the early objections 更值得认真对待
we've had against suicide. 但即便如此  我也并不认可
But even here, I'm not convinced. 我们再举一个和自杀不太一样的例子
Let's again try to think of a case not quite like suicide 然后问一下
and ask ourselves, 有没有可能
can't there be cases where 尽管你思路混乱
despite the fact that your thinking is clouded, 但仍有理由相信
it's still reasonable to trust 你混乱思路做出的决定
the decisions that you make within your clouded thinking? 假设你得了某种疾病
Suppose you've got some disease 给你造成了诸多不便
that causes you a great deal of incapacity 和巨大痛苦
and a great deal of pain. 但它确实可以治愈
But as it happens, there's a cure, 或者至少可以通过手术治愈
or at least there's a surgical procedure that can be done, 而且这个手术几乎总是成功的
and the surgical procedure is almost always successful. 那么  你有些什么选择呢
So, what are the choices? 选择一  这是你的现状
Choice number one, continue in your current state. 你得了可怕的  痛苦的疾病
You've got some horrible, painful disease 而且你不做手术就好不了
and it won't get better unless you have the surgery. 如果你做了手术
If you do have the surgery, 病情非常非常可能会好转
it's very, very likely that it will get better, 100个手术里有99个能成功
99 cases out of 100 the surgery works, 或者100个手术里有99.9个能成功
or 99.9 cases out of 100 the surgery works, 或者100个手术里有99.99个能成功
or 99.99 cases out of 100 the surgery works. 当然  手术都是有风险的
Of course, like all surgery, there are risks. 有时病人麻醉之后
Sometimes you put the person under anesthesia 就再没醒过来
and they don't wake up. 这并不经常发生
It doesn't happen very often, 千分之一  万分之一
1 in 1,000, 1 in 10,000, 十万分之一  不管多少吧
1 in 100,000, whatever it is. 反正手术有失败的可能
There's some chance the surgery won't work 你会死在手术台上
and you'll die on the operating table. 但这个可能性非常小
But it's a very, very small chance, 几乎可以说手术一定会成功
overwhelmingly likely the surgery will succeed. 如果成功了  你就能康复
And if it does succeed, you'll be recovered. 这是选择一
That's option number one. 选择二  你维持现状
Option number two, you continue in your current state, 无法行动  人生没有价值
incapacitated, unable to lead a valuable life, 充满痛苦
suffering, full of pain. 你非常可能会这样
Well, that's overwhelmingly likely. 自然痊愈的可能只有千分之一
1 in 1,000 cases there's some sort of natural cure, 也许万分之一
maybe 1 in 10,000 cases there's a natural cure. 而1000次里999次
But in 999 out of 1,000 cases 或者10000次里9999次
or 9,999 out of 10,000 cases, 你会疾病缠身
the disease just continues until, 等着几年后死神降临
until you die some years down the road. 选项就这两个
There's your choice. 你是否应该做手术呢
Should you have the surgery or not? 我认为我们都会同意
Well, I suppose what we think is, 当然应该做手术
of course you should have the surgery. 不做手术是傻子
You'd be a fool not to have the surgery. 做手术极有可能把病治好
It's overwhelmingly likely going to cure you. 可现在我们又要担心了  等一下
But now we worry. Wait a minute. 你能相信这个判断吗
Can you trust that judgment? 不管怎么说
After all, 你现在承受的压力很大
the condition you are in is so stressful, 你很痛苦  很明显你非常情绪化
so painful, that you are obviously very emotionally worked up. 而你判断
And any judgment that you make 做这个手术是合理的
that it's a reasonable decision to have this surgery 你这个判断是在
is a judgment you're making 悲伤情绪笼罩下做出的
while under the cloud of emotional distress. 你怎么能相信这个判断呢
How could you possibly trust that judgment? 所以你不应该相信这个判断
And so you shouldn't trust the judgment, 这个观点会说
the argument goes. 这种情况下
And so you must never agree 你绝对不可以同意做手术
to the surgery in this situation. 但这不可能是对的
But that can't be right. 我们当然认为这种情况下  你有理由
Surely we agree that it could be reasonable 相信自己的判断
to trust your judgment in this situation. 毋庸置疑
Now, to be sure, 痛苦会使你踌躇不前
the fact that you are in all of this pain should make you pause, 使你犹豫不决  使你考虑再三
should make you hesitate, should make you think twice, 才能做出决定
and then think again, before deciding what to do. 但是  如果有人说
But still, if somebody says, 既然你情绪这么不稳定
since you're so worked up, 你做手术的决定就不可能是合理的
it could never be rational to decide to have the surgery, 这样说就太极端了
that just seems to be going too far. 这种说法毫无道理
It doesn't make sense. 你必须得做出决定
You've got to make some kind of decision. 决定不做手术
Deciding not to have the surgery 也是一个决定
is still making a kind of decision. 那么两个决定
And either decision then is a judgment 都是在你情绪不稳定的时候
that you're going to be making while worked up, 在压力和痛苦的阴霾下做出的
while stressed, while under the cloud of pain and suffering. 所以  你考虑再三
So think twice. Think a third time. 可能还要听听别人的意见
Get the opinions of others, perhaps. 可是  如果有人说
But still, if somebody says 你绝对没理由决定做手术
it could never be rational to decide to have the surgery 也没理由真做手术
and then act on that decision, 他们就是错的
they're just wrong. 我们现在再回来看自杀的例子
Well, now let's come back to the suicide case. 概率是一样的  只是反过来
Same kinds of odds, just reversed. 如果你决定不自杀
If you don't decide to commit suicide, 我们假定你几乎必然
we are imagining that it's overwhelmingly likely 会继续活在痛苦中
you'll continue in suffering. 好起来的可能性极小
Some slight chance that you'll recover, 继续受苦的可能性极大
but overwhelmingly likely you'll continue in suffering. 然而  如果你自杀了
Whereas, if you do kill yourself, 几乎可以肯定地说  甚至能保证
it's overwhelmingly likely and perhaps even guaranteed, 你的痛苦将会终结
your suffering will come to an end. 唯一例外的是
The only chance that it won't is 如果你相信死后还有生命
if you think there's some chance of an afterlife. 那么  我们是否要换个说法
Well, should we be swayed by the argument at this point 既然你正在忍受痛苦
that since you are suffering, 你的判断就不准确
your judgment is cloudy 所以你不应该相信自己的判断
and so you should not trust your judgment? 那么  这个观点不可能成立
Well, that can't be a good argument. 如果在手术的例子中  这个观点不成立
If it wasn't a good argument in the surgery case, 我看不出
I can't see 在自杀的例子中它怎么会突然成立
how it could suddenly become a good argument in the suicide case. 正确的说法似乎是
What does seem right is, 恰恰由于你是在
precisely because you're working and deciding 情绪压力的阴霾下做出决定
under the cloud of emotional stress and pain, 所以更应该三思而后行
that you should think twice, and think a third time, 再多考虑一下
and perhaps think yet again. 你不应该仓促决定
You should not make this decision in haste. 你应该跟你的医生谈谈
You should discuss it with your doctors. 跟你的亲人谈谈
You should discuss it with your loved ones. 但是如果有人说
But if somebody says 你绝对没理由相信
you could never reasonably trust the judgment 自己在这种情况下做出的决定
that you make while in these circumstances, 那我只能说他这个建议是错的
I can only say that doesn't seem like a sound piece of advice. 在我看来这种说法不对
That claim doesn't seem right to me. 因此  我认为
I conclude, therefore, 当我们只关注
that as long as we're focused on 自杀的合理性问题
the question of the rationality of suicide, 抛开道德问题不谈
ethics aside, 在某种情况下
the rationality of suicide under certain circumstances, 确实有理由自杀
suicide could be rationally justified. 你的生活可能会生不如死
You could have a life that is worse than nothing. 你可以有理由相信自己正处其中
You could have good reason to believe you were in that situation. 你或许能认清自己的处境
You could either be thinking clearly about your situation, 即使你的判断有些艰难  有些混乱
or even if your judgment is clouded and difficult, 你仍有可能发现  概率已经大到
you could still find the odds sufficiently great 足以使你相信自己的判断了
that it was reasonable to eventually trust your judgment. 自杀的合理性
The rationality of suicide, 我认为  肯定存在
I think, is secured. 但是  说了这么多
But for all that of course, 自杀仍有可能是不道德的
it could still be immoral. 一些做法可能合乎理性
There could be actions that are rationally legitimate, 但不符合道德规范
but for all that, morally illegitimate. 正如我前面所说
As I mentioned previously, 在哲学中  关于这两者能否分开
there's a big debate in philosophy as to whether or not 存在着很大争议
these two things can really come apart or not. 有人认为  理性会要求你服从道德
Arguably, reason actually requires you to obey morality, 那么  即使有些事对自己有利
and so even if something's in your self-interest, 但如果它不道德
perhaps it's not rational to do it, 做这件事也不合乎理性
if it's immoral. 有趣的问题
Interesting question. 我们还是把它暂时搁置
Let's just bracket that question 直接关注道德问题
and just focus directly on the question now of morality. 我们怎么看待自杀的道德问题
What should we say about the morality of suicide? 抛开理性问题
Rationality aside, 我们对自杀的道德问题有什么看法
what should we say about the morality of suicide? 当然  为了真正说明白这个问题
Well, to really do justice to this question, 我们需要了解
of course, we would need to have 一整套道德理论
an entire theory of morality laid down, 但很明显我没时间这么做
and unsurprisingly, I don't have time to do that for us, 没时间开一门伦理学课程
an entire class on introduction to ethics 普及一些
where we try to lay down 道德方面的基础理论
a basic fundamental theory about morality. 我们只剩下今天的几分钟
All we've got left is a couple of minutes today 和后面的一堂课了
and then one more lecture. 所以  我要做的是
So instead, what I want to do is 首先反驳一些草率随性的
first mention some quick and dirty arguments 含有伦理色彩的观点
that have a kind of moral tinge to them. 然后再讲一些更为系统化的观点
And then turn to some somewhat more systematic arguments 就此很快总结出
where I'll quickly put in place 道德理论中的一些基本元素
some basic elements of a plausible moral theory. 我们没时间仔细研究它们
We won't have time to explore them in detail, 但至少我们会对基本的道德理论
but at least we'll get a shape of a 有一个总体认识
basic moral theory 并在此基础之上讨论自杀话题
and see what it might say about suicide. 那么  在讲解系统化的理论之前
So, systematic a little bit later, 先讲几个草率随性的观点
first some quick and dirty arguments. 第一个观点究竟是不是个伦理问题
Whether we should call it a moral argument, the first one, or not, 我不太清楚
I'm not quite certain. 但这个观点
But it's certainly an argument 在这一领域中经常被提及
that gets stated all the time in this area. 当我们思考自杀是否正当
When we think about the legitimacy of suicide, 再平常不过会得到这种回答
it's common enough to have the reaction, 自杀是不正当的
suicide is illegitimate 因为它违背了上帝的意志
because it's thwarting God's will. 这个观点不像道德观点
Maybe this isn't so much a moral argument 更像神学观点
as a theological argument. 当然  大多数情况下
And for the most part, 你们都知道
of course, as you know in this class, 我在课堂上尽量回避一些神学问题
I've avoided at least some theological questions. 显然  灵魂是否存在
Obviously, questions about the existence of a soul 本身就是神学问题
is itself a theological argument. 但我已经尽可能地回避
But I've tried to discuss them as far as possible 提及上帝  以及
without bringing in questions about God, 上帝的存在和上帝的意志
God's existence and God's will. 但是在讨论自杀时
But the topic's almost unavoidable 这个话题基本是无法回避的
when we think about suicide, 因为这种观点十分普遍
given the prevalence of the thought, 就是  我们活着是上帝的意志
it's God's will that we stay alive 所以自杀就违背了上帝的意志
and so it's going against God's will to kill ourselves. 我认为对这个观点最好的回应是
Well, I think the best response to this argument 大卫·休谟在几百年前提出的
was given by David Hume some several centuries ago, 250年前
two and a half centuries ago, 休谟说  如果我们能继续活着
where Hume says, look, if all we've got to go on 仅仅是因为造物主的意志
is just the idea of a Creator 他创造并赋予我们生命
who has built us and given us life, 我们就不能由此得出
we can't infer that 自杀违背了上帝的意志
suicide is against God's will. 至少  如果你觉得这种说法正确
At least, if you've found that thought a compelling one, 那你为什么不认为
then why wouldn't you also find it compelling to say 拯救他人的生命也违背了上帝的意志
it goes against God's will when you save somebody's life? 这和我之前举过的一个例子很类似
This is a point that's close to one I've raised before. 当你在教堂街上散步
You're walking along Chapel Street 和你谈话的那个人
and the person you're talking to, you see, 眼看就要被车撞了
is about to be hit by a car. 你把他推开
So you push them out of the way. 之前我们讲到的问题是
Previously, when we talked about this question, 他们是否应该感谢你
the question was whether or not they should be grateful to you. 现在的问题是  他们是否应该抱怨你
Now the question is whether or not they should complain, 你怎么敢这样做
"How dare you do that! 你违背了上帝的意志
You've thwarted God's will. 我被那辆车撞死是上帝的意志
It was God's will that I be hit by that truck." 那么  当我们能救人一命时
So, when we're about to save somebody's life, 我们是否应该袖手旁观
should we decide not to do that on the grounds 因为让他死掉肯定是上帝的意志
that it must be God's will that they're going to die? 如果你是一个医生
If you're a doctor 有人心脏骤停
and somebody's in cardiac arrest 你为他做心脏复苏术什么的
and you could now perform CPR, or whatever it is, 好让他心脏恢复跳动
in order to get their heart going again, 作为一名医生  我们能说
should we say as a doctor, 不  我不能这么做
"Oh no, I must not do that. 上帝的意思是让他死去
It's God's will that they die. 如果我救了他
If I try to save their life, 我就违背了上帝的意志
I'm thwarting God's will." 没人这么说
Well, nobody says that. 那么  在自杀的例子中
But then, why is the argument any better 这个论点又能好到哪里去
in the case of suicide? 我们设想一下
We could of course imagine, 当你救了朋友一命  而他说
when you've saved your friend's life and he says, 你违背了上帝的意志
"Oh, you thwarted God's will," 你十有八九会反驳说
what you might come back and say is, 才不是呢  是上帝让我救了你
"Oh, no, no. You see, it was God's will that I save your life. 所以  如果我没救你
And so it was God's will that 你会被车撞到
you be in the situation 是上帝的意志
where the truck was going to hit you unless I saved you. 那么我救了你  也是上帝的意志
But it was also God's will that I save your life." 或许医生也会说类似的话
And maybe the doctor should say something similar. 这话有点道理
Not an implausible thing to say. 可是  既然这种回答有道理
But given that that's not an implausible thing to say, 为什么在自杀问题上不能这么说
why not say the same thing about suicide? 上帝让我处于现在的情况
It was God's will that I be in this situation, 那么我自杀也是上帝的意志
and then God's will that I kill myself. 反正上帝没印指令手册
Absent any special instruction manual from God, 上帝的意志是双刃剑
the God's will argument cuts both ways, 意思是它不具有任何指导意义
which is to say it doesn't give us any guidance. 我们不知道上帝是让我们做
We don't know whether it's God's will that we act, 还是不让我们做
or God's will that we don't act, 谁都没有它的指令手册
absent an instruction manual from God. 所以我们不能下结论说
So, we can't conclude that 自杀肯定是错的
suicide is obviously wrong, 因为它违背了上帝的意志
because it violates God's will. 除非你有手册
Well, unless you've got an instruction manual. 你也许认为  比如
You might think, for example, 《圣经》告诉我们不要自杀
that the Bible tells us not to commit suicide. 既然《圣经》上写的是上帝的话
And since the Bible is God's word, 那我们就得遵从《圣经》的指导
we must do whatever the Bible tells us. 这种观点
That's a kind of argument 我非常乐于接受
that I'm perfectly prepared to engage in. 尽管它背后还有许多假设
Although, of course, there's a lot of assumptions 我们需要仔细研究
behind that argument that we would need to really examine. 上帝是否存在
Is there a God?-- 我们需要知道这点
Well, obviously we needed that 以增强上帝意志的说服力
weighing in for the God's will argument.-- 上帝是否把意志写在一本书中
Has God expressed his will in a book? 如果是  是哪本书
If so, what book is it? 我们在道德上是否有理由服从上帝
Do we have moral reason to obey God? 这些问题也和上帝的意志有关
Also relevant for the God's will argument. 当然  如果我们真认为我们有义务
And of course, if we do think we have an obligation 遵从这本上帝的指令手册
to obey this instruction manual, 我们是否真的准备好了去服从它呢
are we really prepared to obey this instruction manual? 即使这个指令手册里写了
Even if there's a sentence in this instruction manual 不得自杀
that says don't commit suicide, 它里面还写了很多
a lot of other things the instruction manual also says 大多数人不愿照做的内容
that most of us are not inclined to do. 这本指令手册里写了
The instruction manual says 不得吃猪肉
not to eat pork. 可是  你们有几个人会不吃猪肉呢
Well, how many of you are not willing to eat pork? 手册里还让你不要
The instruction manual tells you not 在一件衣服里混合多种材质
to mix various kinds of material together in a single item of clothing. 有多少人认为这是无法接受的
How many of you think that that's unacceptable? 手册里还说
The instruction manual tells you 如果青少年对父母不敬
that if a teenager is rude to their parents, 就应该被乱石打死
they should be stoned to death. 有几个人认为这是道德的要求
How many of you think that that's a moral requirement? 如果你要挑选那些
If you're going to pick and choose which bits of 手册里你认为合乎道德的条款
the instruction manual you actually think are morally relevant, 那你就不能过来跟我说
then you can't come to me and say, 哦  自杀是错的
"Oh, suicide is wrong 因为手册里是这么说的
because the instruction manual says so." 你其实不是用
You're not really using the 指令手册作为你的道德指南
instruction manual to give you moral guidance. 你是先有自己的道德信仰
You're starting with your moral beliefs 然后挑选一些
and then picking and choosing 你能接受的手册条款来行事
which bits of the instruction manual you want to accept. 这是个大问题
Well, that's a big question. 这是个很大的话题
That's a big topic. 我们只是稍窥堂奥
And so having just touched on it, 先把它放到一边
I'm going to have to put it aside. 抛开那个指令手册  至少
Instruction manual aside, at the very least, 我们可以说
we might say, 求助于上帝的意志不能帮助我们
appeal to God's will can't help us 决定自杀是否正当
to decide whether or not suicide is legitimate or not. 但还有另一个草率随性的观点
But there's a different quick and dirty argument. 它也可以用神学诠释
Also it can be run in a theological form, 但不用也行
but it need not be run that way. 这个观点说的是感恩
And that has to do with gratitude. 我们被赋予生命
We've been given life 而且生命如此美妙
and life's pretty amazing. 那么我们有责任  有义务
And so we have an obligation, a debt 感激并保持这个恩赐
of gratitude to keep the gift. 感恩不是那种
Now look, gratitude is not one of the moral virtues 现在说得很多的美德
that gets a lot of discussion nowadays. 它正渐渐被人们遗忘
It's fallen on rather hard times. 但我认为没有理由抛弃它
But I see no reason to dismiss it. 在我看来
It does seem to me 确实有你要感恩的事情
there is such a thing as a debt of gratitude. 如果有人帮了你
If someone does you a favor, 你就欠他们人情
you owe them something. 你欠他们一个感激
You owe them a debt of gratitude. 所以这个观点会说
And so the argument might then go, 不管我们生命是上帝赋予的
look, either God gave us life, 还是自然赋予的
or nature gave us life, 还是父母赋予的
or our parents gave us life. 不管怎样
Whatever it was, 我们都应该感谢这一美妙的礼物
we owe a debt of gratitude for this wonderful gift. 那么  你要怎样回报呢
And as such, how do you repay the debt? 你要通过保有这份礼物来回报
You repay the debt by keeping the gift. 如果你自杀了
If you kill yourself, 你就是在拒绝这份礼物
you're rejecting the gift. 这是忘恩负义  是不道德的
That's being ungrateful, and ingratitude is immoral. 这是不对的
It's wrong. 这就是为什么自杀是错误的
And that's why suicide is wrong. 这是第二个草率随性的观点
That's the second quick and dirty argument. 可能你们不会意外
Perhaps it won't surprise you 听到我说第二个观点同样站不住脚
that I don't find this second argument persuasive either. 不是我想质疑感恩
Not because I'm skeptical about debts of gratitude, 而是我希望大家关注
but I want us to pay attention to 感恩的义务究竟要求我们做些什么
what exactly obligations of gratitude require us to do. 尤其是  大家要记住
In particular, it's important to bear in mind 只有当他/她给你的是一件礼物
that you owe the person who gives you a gift something only 你才欠他的人情
when what he's giving you, or she's giving you, is a gift. 假设有个人  我们叫他霸王吧
Imagine that somebody, I'll call him The Bully, 他给了你一个派然后说  吃了它
gives you a pie and says, "Eat it." 可那不是苹果派
But it's not an apple pie. 也不是樱桃派
It's not a cherry pie. 而是一种恶心的  油腻粘乎的
It's some gross, disgusting, 已经变了质的派
slime pie, some rotting slime pie, 他切下一大块  对你说
and he cuts out a big piece and he says, 吃了它
"Eat it." 你欠这个人什么恩情吗
Do you owe this person, as a debt of gratitude, 除了感激  你还有义务
out of gratitude, do you owe him the obligation 不停地吃掉那个派吗
to eat the pie and continue eating the pie? 那样的话就太荒唐了
That would seem like a rather odd thing to claim. 那家伙是  人如其名
This guy is indeed, as I've named him, 就是个恶霸
just a bully. 当然  典型的恶霸
Now, of course, typical bullies, 至少在连环画里
at least in the comic book cases, 恶霸都是又高又壮的
bullies are big and strong. 他可能会这样对你说
The bully might be able to say the following thing to you. 你要么吃了这个派
"You eat this pie 要么我就揍你
or I will beat you up. 打得你满地找牙
I'll beat the crap out of you." 而我并不强壮
And look, I'm not a very strong guy. 他能这样对我
He might well be able to do it, 而我却
and I might not, 我很清楚他干得出来
I might well know he is going to do it. 所以  对我来说
And so, it might be prudent for me 吃掉那个腐烂的令人反胃的派
to eat the slime pie, disgusting, 才是明智之举
appalling as it may be. 吃上几片已经烂得不成形的派
It might be better to have a couple of slices of slime pie 总好过被揍得不成人形
than to be beaten up to a pulp. 但这里没有道德义务
But there's no moral obligation here. 吃掉那块派不是道德上的要求
There's no moral requirement to eat the pie. 那么  如果上帝扮演了恶霸的角色
Well, if God takes on the role of bully 他说
and says, 吃了派  不然就送你下地狱
"Eat the pie or I'll send you to hell," 可能你乖乖听话才是明智之举
maybe it would be prudent of you to do what he says. 而如果上帝取代了恶霸  说
And if God takes on the role of bully and says, 就算你的人生已经糟糕透顶
"Even though your life has become so horrible 你生不如死
that you'd be better off dead, 我还是要你活下去
I insist that you keep living 你要自杀我就送你下地狱
or I'll send you to hell if you kill yourself," 那你不自杀就是明智之举
maybe it's prudent of you not to kill yourself. 但这里却没有道德上的约束
But there's no moral requirement here. 这个故事中  上帝就是恶霸
God's just a bully on this story. 这不是说我认为上帝是恶霸
Now, that's not to say that I think God is a bully. 如果你相信  非常可能
If you believe, plausibly enough, 上帝是好的
god is good, 那么要是派坏掉了
then God's not going to want you to 他就不会逼着你吃
continue eating the pie once it's spoiled. 他把苹果派给你
He gives you an apple pie. 说  吃了吧  对你有好处
He says,"Eat it. It's good for you. 你会喜欢的
You'll like it." 出于感激  你吃了
Out of gratitude, you eat it. 然后  上帝
But then God, 它不是恶霸  又说
not being a bully, says, 如果这个派坏掉了  你可以不吃
"If the pie ever spoils, you can stop eating." 如果他不是恶霸  干吗他非要
Why in the world would he insist that we continue 让我们吃一个已经坏掉的派呢
to eat a spoiled pie if He's not a bully? 所以  我看不出感恩的观点
So, I can't see how any argument from gratitude 怎么会是正确的
is going to get off the ground. 就算自杀是不道德的
If there's something immoral about suicide, 我们从这些草率随性的观点中
we're not going to get the immorality 也看不出它是不道德的
through these quick and dirty arguments. 我们需要从
We're going to have to get it 更系统的讨论中  认识这一点
from some more systematic appeal to moral theory. 我们会在下一节课讲这个内容
And that's what we'll turn to next time. 



 Chapter 25: 自杀(三)：自杀的道德评判以及全章总结


上次我们讲到自杀的道德问题
Last time we turned to questions about the morality of suicide, 我提到了两个
and I started with two arguments that 我称为草率随性的观点
I called quick and dirty arguments. 我认为公平地讲
I suppose it would have been fairer to say 它们其实都是神学观点
that they were really theological arguments, 或者说是某种程度上采用了神学前提的
or they were moral arguments that used, in part, 道德观点
theological premises. 我觉得至少这种
I suggested that, at least if we look at them 草率随意的观点
in their quick and dirty versions, 不足以说明问题
they were inadequate, 如果我们想仔细研究
and if we're going to make a more careful argument 自杀的道德问题
about the morality of suicide, 我们需要一些更系统化的
we need to turn to a more systematic view 道德理论
about the contents of morality. 我们需要根据
We need to look at suicide 基本的道德准则来评判自杀
in terms of the basic moral principles. 这不是我们有机会仔细探讨的事情
Now, that's not something we've got the chance to do in detail, 但我们至少能讲清楚
but I think we can at least say enough 一些基本的道德准则
about a couple of basic approaches to the contents of morality, 或是基本的道德尺度
or the basic moral rules, 让我们有个概念  知道
to get the beginnings of an understanding of 更仔细地研究自杀的道德问题
what might emerge about the morality of suicide 会得到什么
if we were to do that more carefully. 先不谈自杀问题
So, holding off on suicide for the moment, 我们先问一下
let's ask ourselves, 是什么决定了一个行为
what is it that makes an action 是否符合道德
morally acceptable or morally forbidden? 毋庸置疑
This is, unsurprisingly, 不同道德理论对此存在争议
something that different moral theories disagree about. 但至少有一个要素或特征  是所有
But there's at least one factor or one feature that all, 或者说大部分道德理论所接受的
or almost all, moral theories agree about. 那就是行为造成的后果很关键
And that is that the consequences of your action matter. 我们或许可以  或许不可以
That is, we might or might not 只把行为的后果当作道德评判的标准
think that consequences are the only things that are morally relevant 来考察行为是否道德
when we think about the morality of your action, 但行为造成的后果
but surely it is one thing that's morally relevant-- 肯定是其中一个标准
what are the consequences of your action going to be. 因此  下面我们从后果的角度
So, let's think about the morality of suicide 来思考自杀的道德问题
with an eye towards consequences, 因为我们讨论的是道德问题
bearing in mind that since we're talking about a moral point of view 所以我们要考虑
we need to take into account 行为的后果对所有人造成的影响
the consequences as they affect everybody. 那么  受自杀行为影响最大的人
Now, the person who, of course, is most affected by suicide is, 当然就是自杀者自己
of course, the person who is killing themselves. 似乎我们的第一印象很清楚
And at first glance it might seem pretty clear 自杀对其本人是不好的
that the consequences of suicide are bad for that person. 毕竟这个人之前活着而现在死了
After all, the person was alive and now they're dead, 我们通常将死亡造成的结果看做坏的
and we normally would take death to be a bad result. 假如我告诉你
If I were to tell you, 墙上有个开关
"Oh, here's a switch on the wall. 只要你按动开关
If you were to flip the switch, 一千个活着的人
a thousand people who would otherwise be alive 就会立即死亡
would end up dead," 一般情况下你一定会同意
you would normally take that to be a pretty compelling argument 不能按开关
against flipping the switch. 为什么呢  因为结果是坏的
Why? Because the result would be bad. 为什么呢  因为一千个人会死去
Why? Because a thousand people would end up dead. 也许一个人死亡的坏处
Well, one person ending up dead 并不比一千个人死亡的坏处更大
isn't as bad as a thousand people ending up dead, 但即便如此
but for all that 我们不是仍然可以说结果是坏的吗
shouldn't we still say it's a bad consequence? 由此我们不是可以说
And as a result of that, shouldn't we say that 无论结果在道德评判中的
however far appeal to consequences goes 作用有多大
in terms of giving us our moral theory, 我们难道不应认为  从结果来看
don't we have to say in terms of consequences, 或者说考虑到结果
or with regard to consequences, 自杀是不道德的
suicide is immoral? 但先别急
But not so quick! 尽管死亡通常是坏事
Even though it's true that normally death is a bad thing, 但并非总是坏事
it's not always a bad thing. 我们在讨论死亡的主要坏处时
This is the sort of thing that we've learned by thinking about 学习过这个问题
what does the badness of death consist in. 平常情况下
Typical cases are ones in which 死亡剥夺了人们
the person's dying robs them of a chunk of life 本来会有的幸福生活
that would've been good for them overall, 因此死亡对他们来说是坏事
and because of that dying then is bad for them. 但在我们后来的例子里
But in the kinds of cases that we're thinking about, 有理由自杀的那些例子里
cases where suicide would be rationally acceptable, 我们现在讨论那些自杀是否符合道德
and we're now asking whether or not it's morally acceptable-- 在那些例子里  至少在那些
in those sorts of cases, at least the kind of paradigm examples 我们关注的例子里
that we've been focused on, 那些人死了会更好
the person is better off dead. 他们生不如死
They're better off dead, 生活给予他们的
meaning that what life now holds out for them-- 也许并非一直是坏的
although perhaps not negative through and through-- 但总的来说是坏的
is negative on balance. 总和是负数
It's negative on balance; 他们最好不要再活下去
they're not better off continuing to live. 最好选择死亡
They're better off dying. 也就是说
And that means, of course, 死亡对他们来说不是坏事而是好事
that dying isn't bad for them, but rather good for them, 因此他们死亡造成的结果不是坏的
and so their death is not a bad consequence, 而是好的
but rather a good consequence. 假设你愿意相信有这种情况
Provided that you're prepared to accept the possibility of cases 某些人早死比晚死
in which somebody would be better off if their life ended sooner 会更好
rather than later, 我们便可得出结论
we're led to the conclusion that-- 从道德上看
from the moral point of view 只关注于结果时
as far as focusing on consequences goes-- 如果一个人自杀  实际上
the consequences might actually be good rather than bad 结果可能是好的而不是坏的
if the person were to kill themselves. 或许他们能够
They will free themselves, let's suppose, 从痛苦中得到解脱
of the suffering they would otherwise have to undergo. 那么  第一印象在说
Well, that's--first glance said, 从结果看自杀是错的
consequences says suicide's wrong. 第二个印象在说  从结果看
Second glance says, consequences says, 自杀在某些情况下是对的
as least in certain circumstances, suicide's right. 当然  第三印象便是
Of course, third glance suggests, 我们不能只关注自杀对
we can't just focus on consequences for the person 自杀者本人的影响
who is contemplating suicide. 因为从道德的角度出发
Because from the point of view of morality 应该考虑对所有人造成的影响
we have to look at the consequences for everybody. 哪些人会受到
Who else might get affected 这个人自杀的影响
by the death or suicide of the person? 我们最先想到的
Well, the most obvious people for us to think about 就是死者的家属和亲人
at that point then are the family and loved ones-- 以及那些认识他
the people who most directly know about 并且关心他的人
and care about the person who is contemplating suicide. 然后  我的印象快不够用了
And again--I'm running out of glances, 第一印象  你会说
but at first glance you might say, 结果明显是坏的
well, there the consequences are clearly bad. 这个人自杀  一般来讲
When the person kills themselves that causes, typically, 会对其家属和朋友
a great deal of distress for the family 造成沉重打击
and friends of the person who has killed themselves. 即便这是真的  我们仍要问
Even if that's true, we now have to ask, 如何衡量这些结果
how do the consequences weigh out? 毕竟我们生存的世界没有一件事
After all, we live in a world in which no single act typically 只会导致好的结果
has only good consequences, 也没有一件事只会造成坏的结果
or no single act has bad consequences and only bad consequences. 我们的选择通常有利有弊
Often our choices are mixed packages 我们需要评估这样做或者那样做
where we have to ask whether the good that we can do is greater than 或者怎样做  才能利大于弊
the bad that we'd be doing with this act or that act or some third act. 但即便如此
Even if there are, then, 自杀对其家属
negative consequences in terms of distress to the family, 朋友或爱人的负面影响
friends, and loved ones, of the person who kills themselves, 仍可能超过
that might still be outweighed 对自杀者本人的好处
by the benefit to the person himself or herself, 如果自杀者
if it was really the case 死了真能更好的话
that he or she would be better off dying. 但值得注意的是
But it's also worth bearing in mind 当我们想到那些
that insofar as we're thinking about people 关心爱护他的人
who love and care about the person who is considering dying, 总的来说他们其实
then they may actually overall, on balance, 或许得到了解脱
be relieved that the 因他们的亲人不用再忍受痛苦了
suffering of their loved one has come to an end. 当然  我们都很震惊和沮丧
We will, of course, all be horribly distressed 看到大自然
that nature, 或者说命运  或者什么别的
or the Fates, or what have you, 导致人们面临的选择竟然是
has brought it about that this person's choices 或者杀死自己
are now reduced to killing themselves on the one hand, 或者继续活在病魔缠绕
or continuing the terminal stages of some illness 虚弱不堪的痛苦中
where they're incapacitated and in pain. 我们当然希望他有治愈的机会
We will, of course, wish there was a serious prospect of a cure, 重获健康的可能
some chance of recovery, 更希望他们从一开始就没生病
wish they'd never gotten ill in the first place. 而现在只有两个选择
But given the limited choices, 继续痛苦地活着
continued suffering and pain, on the one hand, 还是终结这种苦难的生活
or having an end to that suffering and pain, 如果这个人能理性地评估未来
if the person can rationally assess their prospects 并且合理地认为选择死亡会更好
and reasonably come to believe they're better off dead, 那么这一判断
then that's a judgment 会得到他们亲人的认可
their loved ones can come to share as well. 也许他们会懊恼
They may well regret the fact-- 不止懊恼  他们会咒骂
more than regret, curse the fact-- 因为他们只有这些选择
that these are the only choices they've got, 但由于只有这些选择
but still, given the limited choices they may agree, 他们可能会同意  结束痛苦会更好
they may come to agree, better to put an end to the suffering. 所以当这个人自杀时
And so when the person kills themselves, 他们会支持这个决定
they may second that choice. 他们会说
They may say, 至少他不再忍受痛苦的折磨
"At least they're not in pain and agony anymore." 所以  如果我们从结果的角度看
So, if we look at it from the point of view of consequences-- 事实上  有的道德观念认为
in fact, suppose we had a moral view that said 结果并不是衡量行为
consequences aren't just one thing that was morally relevant 是否符合道德的唯一标准
in thinking about what makes an action right or wrong. 假设我们极端地认为
Suppose we took the bold claim that 结果是道德评判的唯一标准
consequences are the only thing that's morally relevant. 有一个道德观念便是如此
There are moral views that take this position. 我估计最著名的
I suppose the best-known 认为结果是道德评判的唯一标准
example of this kind of consequence-only approach to morality 就是功利主义
is utilitarianism. 功利主义是一种道德学说
Utilitarianism is the moral doctrine 认为对与错
that says right and wrong is 取决于能否使
a matter of producing 所有人尽可能幸福
as much happiness for everybody as possible, 平等地计算每个人的幸福
counting everybody's happiness equally. 假如你无法获得幸福
And when you can't produce happiness, 那就至少应该将痛苦最小化
then at least trying to minimize the misery and suffering, 平等地计算每个人的痛苦
counting everybody's misery and suffering equally. 假设我们接受功利主义的立场
So, suppose we accept this utilitarian position. 我们可以对自杀的道德问题
What conclusions would we come to 得到怎样的结论
then about the morality of suicide? 我认为结论会是中立的
I suppose the conclusion would be a kind of moderate one. 一方面我们可以推翻极端的说法
On the one hand, we'd be rejecting the extreme that says 认为自杀绝对不符合道德
suicide is never morally acceptable, 因为要这样说
because to say that, 你就必须承认自杀总是
you'd have to be claiming suicide always 产生坏的结果
has bad consequences overall. 尽管这是经验之谈
And that strikes me, although it's an empirical claim, 但我不认可这种经验之谈
it strikes me as a rather implausible empirical claim. 因为  很遗憾
It's, sadly enough, 很容易找出一个例子
not too difficult to describe cases in which 证明某人通过自杀
the results may actually be better if the person kills themselves 以避免痛苦的折磨会更好
rather than having their suffering continue. 对其本人和家属都会更好
It may be better for them and better for their family. 另一方面也不应该
On the other hand, we certainly wouldn't want-- 假如我们是功利主义者
if we were utilitarians-- 我们也不应该走入另一个极端
we also wouldn't want to go to the other extreme 说自杀总是符合道德的
and say suicide is always morally acceptable, 因为要说自杀总是符合道德
because, of course, to say that it's always morally acceptable 就必须要说
is to say that 自杀的结果总是好的
the consequences are never bad when you kill yourself. 这点明显没有说服力
And that's also pretty obviously an implausible thing to claim. 你们都很年轻  很健康
You guys are young, you're healthy, 你们有光明的前途
you've got a great future in front of you. 如果你们自杀  结果肯定是不好的
If you were to kill yourself, the results wouldn't be good. 自杀的结果肯定比
The results would be worse overall 不自杀的结果要坏
than if you had refrained from killing yourself. 因此功利主义的立场是中立的
So, the utilitarian position is in the middle. 它不认为自杀从来都是错的
It doesn't say suicide's never acceptable, 也不认为自杀从来都是对的
doesn't say suicide is always acceptable. 也许不出意料
It says, perhaps unsurprisingly, 它认为有些时候自杀是可接受的
it's sometimes acceptable; 这取决于现实情况
it depends on the facts. 取决于自杀的结果
It depends on the results. 取决于这个结果
It depends on comparing the results of this action, 和其它可能的结果的比较
killing yourself, to the alternatives open to you. 我们要问  你真的生不如死吗
We have to ask, is your life worse than nothing? 有没有一些医疗手段
Is there some medical procedure 能够治愈你呢
available to you that would cure you? 如果有  即使你现在过得生不如死
If there is, and even if your life is worse than nothing, 但就结果而言
that still doesn't make it 自杀仍然不是最好的选择
the best choice in terms of the consequences. 就结果而言  医疗救治
Getting medical help is a preferable choice 是更好的选择
in terms of the consequences. 我们还可以想像
We can even think of cases where 假如你生不如死
your life is worse than nothing, 你死了会更好
you'd be better off dead, 而且任何医疗手段都无法治愈你
and there is no medical alternative of a cure available to you, 但即便如此  按照功利主义观点
but for all that, it still isn't morally legitimate 自杀仍然可能是不道德的
to kill yourself in terms of the utilitarian outlook. 因为  一如既往
Because, as always, 我们还要考虑对他人造成的影响
we have to think about the consequences for others. 也许你的死亡对某些人
And there may be others 产生了非常不利的影响
who'd be so adversely affected by your death 其损害已经超过了
that the harm to them outweighs 你活着付出的代价
the cost to you of keeping yourself alive. 假设  比如
Suppose, for example, 你的孩子们只有你一人抚养
that you're the single parent of young children. 在道德上你有义务抚养他们
You've got a kind of moral obligation to look after them. 如果你死了
If you were to die, 对他们来说会非常可怕
they'd really have it horribly. 毋庸置疑  在这种情况下
It's conceivable then, in cases like that, 你自杀对孩子造成的痛苦
the suffering of your children, were you to kill yourself, 将超过你为孩子而活在世上
would outweigh the suffering that you'd have to undergo 所忍受的痛苦
were you to keep yourself alive for the sake of your children. 因此这取决于实际情况
So, it all depends on the facts. 如果我们站在功利主义一边
Still, if we accept the utilitarian position, 我们会得到一个中立的结论
we do end up with a moderate conclusion. 在特定情况下自杀是符合道德的
In certain circumstances suicide will be morally justified-- 大致说来  就是在你死了会更好
roughly speaking, in those cases where you're better off dead 并且对他人的影响不会过大的情况下
and the effects on others aren't so great as to outweigh that. 那些就是典型的
Those will be the paradigm cases in which 从功利主义的角度来判断
suicide makes sense or is legitimate, 自杀是有意义的或者说是正当的例子
morally speaking, from the utilitarian perspective. 但当然  这也不是说这时自杀
But of course, that doesn't mean that suicide 永远都符合道德
is indeed ever morally legitimate. 因为我们不一定必须
Because we don't necessarily want 接受功利主义的道德观
to embrace the utilitarian theory of morality. 大体上说  当我们认为结果重要
Utilitarianism is what you get, roughly speaking, 而且只有结果重要时
when we say consequences matter 我们就得到了功利主义观点
and they're all that matters. 但大部分人倾向认为
But most of us are inclined to think 道德评判不应只关注结果
that there's more to morality than consequences. 大部分人倾向于认为
Most of us are inclined to think that 有些行为会导致坏的结果
there are cases in which actions can have bad results-- 或者  有些行为的结果是好的
rather, actions can have good results and yet, 但尽管如此  仍然是不道德的
for all that, be morally forbidden. 或者说尽管有些行为结果是坏的
Or actions could have bad results and yet, 但仍然是道德的
for all that, still be morally required. 这并不是说结果对道德无关紧要
That's not to say that consequences don't matter morally; 而是说结果
it's to claim, rather, that consequences 不是道德评判的唯一标准
aren't the only thing that matters morally. 结果可能因其它的道德标准而变得不重要
Consequences can be outweighed by other morally relevant factors. 这是道德理论的一个分支
Well, that's the position that's held 义务论的观点
by the branch of moral theory known as deontology. 义务论者认为
So deontologists say other 除结果以外还有其它道德标准
things matter morally besides consequences. 要判断你的行为是否正确
In deciding whether your action is right or wrong, 你需要关注行为的结果
you have to pay attention to the consequences, 但还要关注一些别的事情
but you have to pay attention to other things as well. 什么事情呢  不出所料
What other things? Well, unsurprisingly, 在这个领域不同的义务论者
this is an area then in which different deontologists 对这些其它的道德评判标准
will disagree one to the next in terms of what else they want 抱有不同意见
to add to the list of morally relevant factors. 但有一个标准
But there's one kind of additional factor 是大部分义务论者
that most of us in our deontological moods 都同意的
would want to add to the list, 那就是  无论如何  我认为它
and that's this--so one, at any rate, that's relevant I think, 和自杀话题直接相关
most directly relevant for thinking about suicide. 这个标准便是
That factor is the factor 不仅要关注行为的结果
of not just what was the upshot of your action 还要关注你如何达成这个结果
but how you produced that upshot; 不仅是结果是什么
not just what the results were, 还有你达到这种结果的手段
but what was your means of getting those results 特别是
and more particularly still, 为了达到这个结果你是否必须伤害别人
did you have to harm anybody to produce the results? 大部分人认为伤害别人是不对的
Most of us are inclined to think it's wrong to harm people, 或者至少是无辜的人
or at least innocent people. 伤害无辜的人一定是错的
It's wrong to harm innocent people 即使这样做的结果是好的
even if the results of doing that might be good. 我特意强调无辜的人是因为
Now, I threw in the qualification about innocent people because, 我们大部分人倾向认为
of course, it's also true that most of us are inclined to think that 自卫是正当的
self-defense might be justified. 伤害那些攻击你
Harming people who are attacking you 或者你的朋友
or your friends 或者你的同胞的人应该是正当的
or your fellow countrymen--that may be legitimate. 因此我们不是在说
And so it's not as though we want to say 伤害别人总是错的
it's never legitimate to harm somebody. 只要那些人有罪  他们是侵略者
But those people are guilty; they're aggressors. 在义务论中  大部分人
What most of us in our deontological moods 都倾向认为
are inclined to think is 伤害无辜者总是不对的
it's never legitimate to harm an innocent person. 而且关键在于
And the crucial point is 即便这样做结果是好的
that's true even if the results would be better. 看  一般情况下
Look, there's no debate 义务论者和功利主义者
between deontologists and utilitarians about 对不应伤害无辜者这点上没有争议
harming innocent people in the normal case, 因为正常情况下  假设我
because normally of course--you know, suppose I, 举个例子  用枪声结束这堂课
to make an example--to end the class with a nice big bang, 我拿着乌兹冲锋枪
right--I brought my Uzi sub-machine gun. 然后砰砰砰地杀了15个人
I now take it and go rat-a-tat-tat, killing 15 of you. 这不会是什么有好结果的事情
Well, that would not be something that would have good results. 很明显
And so, clearly, 功利主义者和义务论者
the utilitarian is going 都拒绝这种行为
to reject that as well as the deontologist. 他们看法一致
They're in agreement about that. 一般说来  杀死无辜者的结果是坏的
In the typical case, killing an innocent person has bad results, 伤害他们是错误的  毫无疑问
harms them. It's wrong, full stop, we're done. 但假如杀死无辜者
But what should we say about cases 会有好的结果又当如何
where killing an innocent person has better results? 现实中  很难找到这样的例子
In real life, it's hard to think of cases like that, 但我们可以在
but we can at least go "科幻实验室"里找到一个例子
"Science-fictiony" And tell an example. 这是个在伦理学中我最喜欢的例子
So, here is one of my favorite examples in moral philosophy. 假设有五个病人在医院快死了
Suppose that we have five patients in a hospital who are going to die 都是因为各种器官损坏
because of organ failures of one sort or another. 一个人需要心脏移植
One of them needs a heart transplant, 另一个需要肾脏移植
one of them needs a kidney transplant, 还有人需要肝脏移植  等等
one of them needs a liver transplant, and so forth and so on. 不幸的是  由于排异问题
Unfortunately, because of tissue incompatibilities, 即使他们开始死亡
even as they begin to die 我们也无法用先死之人的器官
we can't use the organs from the ones that have died 来拯救剩下的人
to save the others. 与此同时  约翰在医院进行例行体检
Meanwhile, here in the hospital for a routine check-up is John. 他非常健康
John's perfectly healthy. 在检查过程中你发现
And as you're doing your exams on him you discover 他的器官非常适合捐献给
that he's exactly suitable to be an organ donor 那五个病人
for all five of the patients. 你开始思考  如果你能杀掉他
And it occurs to you that if you were to find some way to kill him, 并且掩盖死因
but cover up the cause of death 让他看上去像死于突发疾病
so it looked like he died of some unexpected freak seizure, 你就能用他的器官去救那五个人
you could then use his organs to save the five. 这个人得到一个肾脏
This one gets the kidney, 另一个人得到另一个肾脏
that one gets the other kidney, 有人得到心脏
that one gets the heart, 有人得到肝脏  有人得到肺
that one gets the liver, and that one gets the lungs. 所以你的选择  大概是
So your choice, roughly, is this. 或者为约翰做完例行体检
Just give John his routine medical exam, 这样的话五个病人会死掉
in which case the five other patients die, 要么解剖了约翰
or chop up John, 杀死之后解剖了他
kill him and chop him up, 用他的器官救活五个病人
using his organs to save the five patients. 那么  在这个器官移植的案例中
Well, what should we say is the right thing to do 我们怎么做是正确的
the organ transplant case? 就结果而言  看起来
In terms of consequences it looks as though, 如果故事讲得没错
if we tell the story right at least, 杀死约翰似乎会更好
the results would be better if we chop up John. 毕竟是以一换五
After all, it's one versus five. 尽管约翰的死是很坏的结果
And although the death of John is a horrible bad result, 但五个人的死是更坏的结果
the death of the five is a horrible bad result. 因此杀死无辜的约翰
And so the results would be better 似乎会有更好的结果
if we were to kill innocent John. 好的  假如有更多时间我们会讨论
Well, if we had more time we could argue about 结果是否真的会更好
are the results really going to be better, 这件事是不是真能发生  或者什么
is that a realistic story--what have you-- 是不是有些其它医学方面的问题
are there other long-term effects on the healthcare profession 我们没有考虑周全
that we haven't taken into account? 但我们没时间考虑太多细节
But we don't have time to really pursue this story in detail. 假设情况就是如此
Let's just suppose we could eventually get the details right; 杀死约翰结果会更好
the results really would be better if we chopped up John. 但这么做真的对吗
Is that the right thing to do? 也许功利主义者会说这么做没错
Well, maybe utilitarianism says it's the right thing to do, 但我们大多数人
but it's precisely for that reason 对此都会说
that most of us would then say, 还存在功利主义之外的道德原则
you know, there's more to morality than what utilitarianism says. 那么  这个反对理由是否成立
Now, whether that objection is a good one 是一个非常非常复杂的问题
is a very, very complicated question, 如果你想了解更多
and if you want--if you'd like to pursue it-- 如果你想更深入地探讨它  我建议你
if you want to pursue it--then I invite you 可以选择一门伦理学的导论课
to take an introductory class in moral philosophy. 就我们而言  我们假设大部分同学
For our purposes, let's just suppose that most of us 都站在义务论一边
are on board with the deontologists 认为的确有超出功利主义之外的
when they say there's more to morality 道德标准
than what the utilitarian has, 这个例子就说明了这一点
and this example brings it out. 杀死无辜者是错的  即使
It's wrong to kill somebody who is innocent even though 以一换五的结果是好的
by hypothesis the results would be better--it's five to one. 人有生存权  有不被杀死的权利
People have a right to life, a right not to be killed. 在我们决定如何做符合道德时
And that right weighs in when we're deciding 要考虑这个权利
what to do morally, 所以杀死无辜者是错的
so that it's wrong to kill an innocent person 即使结果真的会更好
even if the results really would be better. 好吧  假设我们同意这个观点
All right, let's suppose we agree with that--accept that. 其实在内容更丰富的伦理学课上
Again, in a fuller class on moral philosophy 我们还要问这个权利的基础是什么
we'd have to ask ourselves what is the basis of that right, 在义务论中  人还有什么其它权利
what other deontological rights do people have, 这些权利的权重又是多少
what exactly are the contours of that right? 但现在我们只要问
But here we can just ask, 假设我们接受这种权利
suppose we accept a right like that, 它对自杀的道德问题有何影响
what are the implications of that for the morality of suicide? 现在  似乎我们只好说
And now, it seems what we have to say is, 自杀是错的
suicide is wrong. 自杀是不道德的
Suicide is morally unacceptable. 因为当我自杀时
Because when I kill myself, 我就杀了一个人
well, I'm killing somebody. 我刚才不是说  根据义务论者的说法
And didn't we just say as deontologists 杀死一个无辜者
that killing an innocent person-- 现在我就是无辜者
and I'm an innocent person-- 杀死无辜者是不道德的
killing an innocent person is morally wrong? 那么我就是  所以杀死我不道德
Well, I'm a person. So, killing me is morally wrong. 再回头说什么
And it's not really any help to come back and say, 看  我们已经假设了
but look, we've stipulated that this is a case 他死了会更好  也无济于事
where the person is better off dead. 如果他自杀  总体来讲结果会更好
The results will really be better overall if he kills himself. 好的  这没错  也许这是对的
Yeah, that's right. Maybe that is right. 但无关紧要  因为义务论者认为
It doesn't matter--because as deontologists we said 生存的权利已经超越了所有结果
the right to life is so powerful it outweighs consequences. 就像说杀死约翰不对
Just as it was wrong to chop up John, 即使结果很好  五人对一人
even though the results would be better--five versus one-- 自杀同样是错的
it's wrong to kill yourself, 即使能导致好的结果
even if the results would be better. 即使那是你从痛苦中解脱的唯一出路
Even if that's the only way to put yourself out of pain, 即使结果是好的  也于事无补
and those are good results, it doesn't matter. 生存的权利超越了结果
The right to life outweighs the appeal to consequences. 那么按照义务论者的说法  似乎是
So as deontologists, it seems, 自杀应该完全禁止  证明完毕
we have to say suicide is forbidden--full stop. 然而  在哲学中通常没那么简单
Well, as usual in philosophy, it's not quite as simple as that. 其中一个回应便是
One possible response somebody might make is, 但是  看
but look, 道德只关注我如何对待他人
morality is only about how I treat others. 而不关注我如何对待自己
It's not about how I treat myself. 如果我们接受这一说法
And if we were to accept that claim, 我们就可以说
then we could say 生存的权利只关注
the right to life only covers 我如何对待他人
how I treat others. 特别是  它禁止我杀死别人
In particular, it rules out my killing other people 即使结果很好
even when the results would be good. 但这种说法不关注我如何对待自己
But it doesn't have any implications for how I treat myself. 尤其是
And in particular then, 如果生存的权利不排除自杀
if the right to life doesn't exclude self-killing, 那么自杀便可以接受
well then, suicide is acceptable. 可能会有这种道德观念
That's a possible moral view, 但我认为它完全错误
but I find it rather implausible. 如果我们是用你会受到的影响
If we were to start to explain what it is about you 来解释  为何我杀死你是错的
that explains why it's wrong for me to kill you, 我们首先讲到  你是个人
we'd start saying things about how, well, you're a person and, 你有各种各样的计划什么的
as such, you've got all these plans and so forth and so on. 作为人  你有某些权力
And as a person, you've got certain rights, 某些事不应该发生在你身上
certain things that shouldn't be done to you. 你并不仅是
You're not just, -- 这是义务论背后的思想  对吧
This is the thought that lies behind much deontological thinking, right? 人不是物体
People aren't objects. 不能为了得到更好的结果而杀死他们
We can't just destroy them for the sake of better results. 没错  人的确不是物体
Well, that's right; people aren't objects. 那么当然  我也是人
But of course, I'm a person too. 所以当我自杀时
And so when I contemplate killing myself, 我也是在杀人
I'm contemplating destroying a person. 因此  很难看出为什么我们要说
So, it's at least difficult to see why we would accept the claim 道德只关注你如何对待他人
that morality only governs how I treat other people. 虽然这是个复杂的问题
It seems--although the issue is a complicated one, 我们没有时间继续深究
which we don't have time to pursue further today-- 但在我看来  更合理的说法是
it seems to me more plausible to say 道德不仅关注我如何对待他人
morality includes rules not only governing how I treat others 也关注我如何对待自己
but also how I treat myself. 然而  如果这样说没错
Yet, if that's right, 而且  如果道德原则里包括生存权
and if among the moral rules are a right to life, 禁止对人造成伤害
a prohibition against harming people, 那我们不是就可以说  看
then don't we have to say, look, 按照义务论的观点自杀是错的
it's wrong from the deontological perspective to kill yourself. 当然
Well, of course, 对这种想法常见的回应是说
the natural response to this line of thought is to say, 当我自杀时  不同于杀死约翰
but look, when I kill myself--unlike the case of chopping up John 是为了救其他五人  我自杀
to save five others--when I kill myself, 是为了我自己
I'm doing it for my own sake. 我为了自己而伤害自己
I'm harming myself for my own sake. 这似乎与自杀的道德问题密切相关
That seems highly relevant in thinking about the morality of suicide. 确实是相关的
It does seem relevant, 但我们并不100%确定如何解释这一说法
though it's not 100 % clear what to do with that thought. 我们有两种可能的解释
Here are two possible interpretations of that thought. 首先  说我为了自己而伤害自己
First of all, you might think that the relevance of saying 这种说法是在说
that I'm harming myself for my own sake is this. 如果我伤害自己是为了自己
If I'm harming myself for my own sake, 我是在说
what I'm saying is, 除了对自己造成伤害外
despite the fact that I'm harming myself, 其实我更好了
I'm better off. 毕竟  我们假设在那些
After all, we stipulated that we were focusing on cases 有理由自杀的例子中
in which suicide was rational. 那个人死了会更好
So, the person is better off dead. 如果他死了会更好
If they're better off dead, 那么虽然在某种程度上
then although it's certainly true that there's a sense 他的确伤害了自己
in which they're harming themselves-- 我的意思是杀死自己
I mean killing yourself 的确伤害了自己
is doing harm to yourself-- 但总的来说不是伤害
still it's not harm overall. 我们的底线  我们假设
The bottom line, we were imagining, 自杀对你有利
is positive when you kill yourself. 但是  尽管
And so, although, 与约翰的例子不同
unlike the case of John 那时是你杀死他来使别人获利
where you've harmed him and benefited others-- 所以总的来说伤害了他
so you have harmed him overall-- 而在自杀的例子中
in the case of suicide, 当我伤害自己以避免
when I harm myself to avoid 继续遭受痛苦
the suffering I would otherwise go through, 我们可以说
I'm not really, as we might say, 总的来讲我没有伤害自己
harming myself overall. 所以  也许义务论中所禁止的伤害
So, perhaps the deontological prohibition against harm 是从总体上禁止对人伤害
is really a prohibition against harming people overall. 看  假设你得了某种疾病
Look, you've got some sort of a disease in your-- 大腿发生感染并且扩散
infection in your leg that has now spread 只有截肢才能救你
and it's going to kill you unless we amputate your leg. 所以  外科医生为你做了截肢手术
So, you go into surgery and the surgeon chops off your leg. 他做了什么不道德的事吗
Has he done something immoral? 他似乎没有
It doesn't seem as though he has. 但毕竟  他锯了你的腿
But after all, he chopped off your leg! 他伤害了你
He harmed you! 你以前有腿但现在没有了
You used to have a leg and now you don't have one. 但是  我们要说的是
Well, what we want to say is 总的来说他没有伤害你
he didn't harm you overall. 他伤害你的方式
He harmed you in such a way that 是使你能好起来的唯一方式
it was the only way to leave you better off bottom line, 因此它没有违反禁止伤害的原则
and that's not a violation of the rule against harming. 至少这是一种可能的解释
At least, that's a possible thing to say. 如果这种解释是对的
And if that's the right thing to say, 也许我们又可以这样去解释自杀了
then maybe that's what we should say about the suicide case yet again. 没错  道义上的确禁止
Yeah, there's a deontological prohibition against 伤害无辜的人
harming innocent people, 但这实际上是禁止
but what it's really a prohibition against, 在总体上使他们情况变差
is leaving them worse off overall. 而当我自杀时
And when I kill myself, 总的来说我的情况没变差
I'm not leaving myself worse off overall. 如果这样说没错
And if that's right, 那么即使从义务论的角度来看
then even from the deontological perspective 自杀也有可能是符合道德的
suicide may be morally legitimate. 这至少是一种可能的方式
Well, that's at least one possible way 采用义务论的观点
to carry out the deontological stand, 来解释
one possible way of interpreting the remark, 但是看  当我自杀时
"But look, when I kill myself, 我是在做对自己有益的事
I'm doing it for my own benefit." 下面是另一种可能的解释
Here's another possible way of interpreting that thought. 我自杀的前提是对自己有益
When I kill myself, given that I'm doing it for my own benefit, 我显然得到了自己的同意
I've obviously got my own agreement. 我不可能违背自己的意愿自杀
I can't kill myself against my will. 自杀是对自己做的事
Suicide is something you do to yourself. 所以  我同意自己这么做
And so, I have my own consent to what I'm doing. 这似乎很重要
That seems pretty important. 注意这与约翰例子的不同
Notice how different it is from the case of John. 当我杀死约翰时
When I chopped up John, 我假设我并没征得他的同意
I imagine I don't have John's approval. 在自杀时我征得了同意
Consent seems to be present in the case of suicide 但杀死约翰时没有
but not in the case of chopping up John. 也许这是一个道德原则
Maybe that's morally relevant as well. 要接受这个观点  当然
Now, to accept that view is, of course, 我们就必须在义务论中
to say we need to add yet 增加另一个道德原则
another factor into our deontological theory. 我们已经有了结果原则
We have consequences, 有了禁止伤害原则
we have harm doing, 现在还要加上同意原则
but we also have the factor of consent. 那么我们在思考道德问题时
And so we need to think about the moral relevance 就要同时考虑受害者是否同意
of having the consent of the victim. 一旦我们开始考虑这个问题
And once we start thinking about that, 我相信大部分人都会认可
I think most of us would be inclined to accept the conclusion 征得同意可以使我们做一些
that consent can make it acceptable to do to someone 一般情况下没征得同意时是错误的事
what would normally be wrong in the absence of their consent. 顺便提一下  你会注意到
By the by, you'll notice that 这似乎是一件
that seems to be one of the things 和手术例子有关的事情
that's relevant in thinking about the surgery case, 不是器官移植的例子
not the organ transplant case 而是那个通过截肢
but the performing the amputation of the leg, 救人一命的例子
to save the person who would otherwise die. 显然病人已经
Surely it seems relevant that the patient 允许你为他动手术
has given you permission to operate on them. 还有一个有关征得同意的例子
Here's another example that shows you the relevance of consent. 如果我走过去一拳打你鼻子上
It would not be okay--it would not be morally acceptable 这样做应该不符合道德
for me to go up and hit you in the nose. 就像你不能走过来
Just like it wouldn't be okay 打我的脸或者肚子
for you to go up and hit me in the face or the gut. 可是在拳击比赛中  我认为
And yet, boxing matches are, I suppose, 这就符合道德  为什么
morally acceptable. Why is that? 从义务论的角度出发  答案是
Because from a deontological perspective the answer is, 拳击比赛中  他们都同意这样做
when people are boxing they've agreed to it. 我允许你打我
I give you permission to hit me, 至少允许你尝试打我
or at least to try to hit me, 作为交换  你也允许我打你
in exchange for your giving me permission to hit you, 或者至少尝试打你
or at least to try to hit you. 这便是同意原则
And it's the presence of that consent 允许你可以伤害我
that makes it permissible for you to harm me, 这需要你拳打得比我更好
assuming that you're a better boxer than I am, 但我估计这显而易见
which I'm confident would have to be the case. 所以  征得同意后
So, consent makes it legitimate 伤害别人变得正当
to harm people, 即使在没征得同意前  这样做不正当
even though in the absence of consent it wouldn't be legitimate. 好的  如果这是对的  那么
All right, if that's right, then 我们据此来考虑自杀问题
bring that thought home to thinking about the case of suicide. 表面上看自杀可能是错的
Suicide might be wrong, 因为毕竟我是一个人
because after all I'm a person, at first glance. 但我自杀时  我征得了自己的同意
But since I'm killing myself, I've given myself permission. 我同意自己伤害自己
I've given myself consent to harm myself. 如果征得同意以后
And if consent makes it 就可以做通常被禁止做的事
permissible to do what would normally be forbidden, 那么征得同意以后
then consent makes it permissible for me 我就可以杀死自己
to kill myself. 因此我们又得到了同一结论
And so, now we're led again to the conclusion 从更全面的义务论观点出发
that from a more fully developed deontological perspective 我们应该说自杀是允许的
we ought to say suicide is permissible, 至少当我们准备
at least if we're prepared 引入这类同意原则
to throw in this kind of factor of consent 并且认为这一原则可以
and think that it can just wipe out 让我们做通常情况下不能做的事情
the protections that would otherwise normally be in place. 实际上  如果我们这样想
Indeed, if we think that, 我们将会得到一个非常极端的
we're going to be led to a rather bold and extreme conclusion 关于自杀道德问题的结论
about the morality of suicide. 某人杀死自己
The person has killed himself, 他肯定获得了自己同意
so he's clearly consented, 所以在所有情况下
and so in every case 他这么干都是正当的
what he's done is acceptable. 或许这是对的  如果我们打算
Well, maybe that's right--if we're prepared to go 如此狂热地认同同意原则
that far with the principle of consent. 但也许我们不该
But maybe we shouldn't go 这么极端地认同同意原则
that far with the principle of consent. 假如下课后你对我说
Suppose we're talking after class and you say to me, 雪莱  我允许你杀了我
"Shelly, you've got my permission to kill me." 然后我就掏出枪把你杀了
And so I get out my gun and I shoot you to death. 这样做好像不符合道德
It doesn't seem morally acceptable, 即使你允许我这么做
even though you gave me your permission, 再来想个更怪的例子
especially--Think of even weirder cases. 假如你觉得自己该死
Suppose that you are feeling like you want to killed 因为你满心愧疚
because you're overcome with guilt 因为你相信自己杀了约翰·史密斯
because you believe you killed John Smith. 但其实你疯了  你没杀约翰·史密斯
But you're crazy. You didn't kill John Smith. 约翰·史密斯根本没死
John Smith's not even dead. 但你疯狂地认为自己杀了他
But in your insanity you think you did do it, 所以你说  雪莱  请杀了我
and so you say, "Shelly, please kill me." 而我知道你疯了  但你看
And I know that you're insane, but hey, you know, 同意就是同意  因此我杀了你
consent's consent, and so I kill you. 这很明显难以接受
Well, that clearly isn't acceptable. 再假设你跟三岁的侄子玩
Or suppose you're playing with your three-year-old nephew. 他说  噢
He says, "Oh yeah, 我实在不想活了  杀了我吧
I don't really like being alive. Kill me." 很明显  这不意味着可以杀死他/她
Well, that clearly doesn't make it acceptable to kill him or her-- 喔  侄子  应该是他
well, nephew, it's a him. 所以  如果我们接受同意原则
So, if we start accepting this consent principle, 又会得到一些难以置信的结论
we're led to some pretty implausible conclusions. 或许我们应该抛弃它
So, maybe we should throw it out. 也许我们应该说
Maybe we should say, 不  同意原则并非像一分钟之前
no, consent really doesn't have the kind of power 看上去的那么有道理
that a minute ago it looked like it did. 但我觉得我们不要太极端
But I'm inclined to think we shouldn't go that far 不要将同意原则全部抛弃
and throw away the consent principle altogether. 因为一旦抛弃同意原则
Because if we do throw out the consent principle, 我们会发现自己无法再谈论一些
we're going to find ourselves unable to say some things 对我们来讲十分重要的事情
that I think it's pretty important to us to say. 考虑下面的例子
Consider the following example. 假设战争中  我们在一个散兵坑
Suppose that we're in war and we're in the foxhole 一枚手榴弹掉进坑里
and a hand grenade has been thrown into the foxhole. 除非你很快做些什么
And unless something happens quick, 否则手榴弹会爆炸
the hand grenade is going to blow up 并且杀死在它近旁的五个战友
and it will kill my five buddies who are near the hand grenade. 不幸的是  他们可能在打扑克什么的
Unfortunately, because they're playing cards or whatever, 没看见手榴弹  而我看见了
they don't see it. But I see it. 但时间不足以提醒他们
But I don't have time to warn them. 等到我告诉他们会发生什么
By the time I tell them what's going on, 他们也没时间做反应了
they won't have time to react. 是袖手旁观  让他们炸死
Really, it's do nothing, let them get killed 而且我也不会受什么伤
but I probably won't be hurt very much, 或者我可以扑到手榴弹上
or throw myself on the hand grenade, 用身体吸收爆炸  牺牲自己拯救战友
my body absorbs the blow, saves my buddies, kills me. 假设我现在扑到了手榴弹上
Imagine what happens is that I throw myself on the hand grenade. 我为他们牺牲了自己
I've sacrificed myself for them. 我做了件了不起的事
I've done something amazing. 很少有人有这种品质做这件事
Few of us would have it within ourselves to do this, 但令人敬仰的是  的确有人会这么做
but amazingly enough some people do. 我们钦佩  赞扬那些人
And we admire and praise these people. 他们完成了
They've committed--they've undertaken 非同凡响的英雄般的自我牺牲
an incredible act of heroic self-sacrifice-- 道德上值得赞扬
morally commendable, 超越了应承担的义务  值得赞扬
above and beyond the call of duty we want to say, praiseworthy. 但是等一下  这为什么值得赞扬
But wait a minute, how could it be praiseworthy? 这个人扑到手榴弹上
The person threw himself on a hand grenade, 他知道他会死去
knowing the result of this was that he was going to die. 因此他就杀了一个人
And so he killed a person, 因此  很明显
thereby, apparently, 这侵犯了义务论里的权利
violating the deontological right 不应该杀害无辜的人
not to have innocent people be killed. 别和我说  结果会更好
Don't talk about "The results are better." 显然  五个人获救  结果肯定更好
Yeah, of course, five buddies saved; the results are better. 但这在义务论里不足以说明问题
But that doesn't seem enough to use in our deontological moods. 毕竟  假设我看到手榴弹
After all, suppose that I see the hand grenade, 我做的是  我把琼斯仍在了手榴弹上
and so what I do is I take Jones and throw him on the grenade. 这似乎做得不对
Well, that's not okay, 即使结果一样
even though the results are the same. 两者有何不同呢
What makes the difference? 为什么琼斯把自己扔在手榴弹上
Why is it morally legitimate for Jones 就符合道德
to throw himself on the grenade? 我能想到的唯一答案是
The only answer that I can see is, 因为他同意了
because he agrees to it. 他对自己做了这件事
He did it to himself; 他是自愿的  他得到了自己的批准
he volunteered, it has his consent. 如果我们抛弃同意原则
If we throw away the consent principle, 我们就只能说
we're forced to say 琼斯的行为在道德上不值得称赞
what Jones did isn't morally admirable. 这件事道德败坏
It's morally appalling, 道德上是禁止的
it's morally forbidden. 我不这么认为
I can't believe that. 因此我们需要同意原则
So, we need a consent principle. 但另一方面
But on the other hand, 我们又不用
we don't want to go with 将同意原则绝对化
such a strong consent principle that we say, 哦  杀死疯子或小孩都没问题
oh, it's okay to kill crazy people, or kill children, 因为他们说  噢  杀了我
just because they say, "Oh, kill me." 因此我们需要
So we need something-- 一个更适度的同意原则
a more moderate form of the consent principle. 应该说同意原则只能在
We need to say consent can do its thing, 某些条件下成立
but only under certain conditions. 都有哪些条件呢
What exactly are the relevant conditions? 这是另一个可以讨论话题
Well, this is, of course, one more topic open for debate. 我们可能坚持认为  看
We might insist that, look, 同意必须出于自愿
the permission has got to be given freely. 必须知道它的后果
It's got to be given knowing what the upshots are going to be. 此人必须心智正常
It's got to be given by somebody who is sane, 有理性  有担当
who is rational, who is competent, 是一位  这就解决了小孩的例子
who's--and that may deal with the child case as well, 他还没有资格做出这种决定
who is not yet competent to make this sort of decision. 我们有空间来争论
There's room for disagreement about 都需要哪些限制条件
what exactly are the relevant conditions 来得到一个比较适度的同意原则
to put into a proper version of the consent principle. 我们还需要引入一些要求
We might also want to throw in some requirement 某人需要有合适的理由来要求你这样做
that the person have good reasons for his giving you permission. 可以用这点来解释那个例子
That might deal with the case 你下课后来找我然后说
where you just come up to me after class and say, 杀了我  我的意思是你没疯
"Kill me." I mean you're not insane. 至少可能没疯
Well, at least you might not be insane. 你知道即将发生什么
You know what's going to happen. 而且你已经到了能为自己负责的年龄
In some sense, you've reached the age of competence, 但你没有合适的理由
but you don't have any good reasons for it. 也许有这些对同意原则的限制就足够了
Maybe that's enough to undermine the force of consent. 那么  假设我们有了这种
Well, suppose we've got some 同意原则的升级版
kind of modified consent principle. 接下来该怎样评判自杀
What should we say about suicide then? 在我看来我们又一次得到了
Well, it seems to me what we're led to is, once again, 一个中立观点
a modest view about suicide. 仅从自杀这个事实
The mere fact that the person killed themselves won't show 无法看出它是否道德  因为
that it was morally legitimate because, of course, 即使他们得到自己的许可
even though they've given themselves permission, 他们也可能没有
they may not have had, 比如  合适的理由
for example, good reason, 或者  他们也许疯了
or they might be insane. 但即便如此  如果某人
But for all that, if we can have cases-- 我认为会有这种情况
and I take it we can have cases-- 理性地评估了自己的处境
where somebody rationally assesses their situation, 发现自己死了会更好
sees that they're better off dead, 他全盘考虑  而非仓促行动
thinks the case through, doesn't rush into it, 深思熟虑后
makes an informed 心甘情愿做出一个决定
and voluntary decision, 有很好的理由的决定
with good reason behind it-- 在这种情况下  在我看来
in a situation like that it seems to me 同意原则就会起到作用
the consent principle might well come into play, 同意原则
in which case consent 取消了义务论禁止
will trump or nullify the force of the deontological prohibition 伤害无辜者的限制
against harming innocent people. 因此  自杀在某些情况下可以接受
So, suicide will again be acceptable in some cases, 尽管不是所有情况下
though not in all. 在我看来  这是一个正确的结论
And that's the conclusion that seems to me to be the right one, 无论我们站在功利主义立场
whether we accept the utilitarian position 还是站在义务论立场
or one of these deontological positions. 自杀并非总是正当的
Suicide isn't always legitimate, 但有时是正当的
but it's sometimes legitimate. 由此引出一个问题
It still leaves the question, 我们应该怎样做
what should we do 当我们看到某人试图自杀时
when we see, when we come across, somebody trying to kill themselves?" 我认为你应该问问自己
And there I think there is good reason to ask yourself, 你确定这个人满足
are you confident that the person has satisfied 同意原则的所有限制条件吗
the conditions on the consent principle? 也许我们应该慎之又慎
Perhaps we should err on the side of caution, 可以假定此人悲伤过度
and assume that the person may be acting under distress, 以致无法清晰思考  一叶障目
not thinking clearly, not informed, 丧失正确的判断能力
not altogether competent, 缺乏合适的理由
not acting for good reasons. 但这样做
But to accept that is not to 并不是说应该接受极端的结论  说
accept the stronger conclusion 我们绝对不能允许别人自杀
that we must never permit somebody to kill themselves. 在我们能够确认
If we become convinced 他们经过深思熟虑
that they have thought it through, 有充分的理由  对结果有足够了解
that they do have good reason, that they are informed, 并且出于自愿
that they are acting voluntarily, 那么在这种情况下
in some such cases 自杀也许是正当的
it may be legitimate for them to kill themselves, 我们不应阻拦他们
and for us to let them. 好了  快没时间了
All right, almost out of time. 我最后一次加快进度
So, let me shift gears for the very last time, 迅速回顾一下我们讲过的内容
and take a quick look at where we've been. 这学期开始的时候
At the start of the semester, 我要求你们认真思考死亡的本质
I invited you to think hard about the nature of death 或者说  生命与死亡的真相
or the facts about life and death. 大多数人
Most of us 非常努力地逃避认真思考死亡
try very hard to not think hard about death. 它看上去是个令人不快的话题
It seems to be an unpleasant topic, 我们把它抛诸脑后
and we put it out of our mind. 我们不去想它
We don't think about it, 即使死到临头也不去想它
even when there's a sense in which it's staring us in the face. 这学期的每堂课
Every single class of this semester, 这学期的每一天
every single day of this semester, 你进入这栋大楼之前
you've come into this building 都会经过路边的一片墓地
and have walked past a cemetery right across the street. 多少次你会注意到它
How many times did you notice it? 多少次这一场景会使你停下来思考
How many times did you stop to think about the complete visual reminder 我们只是这个世界的过客
that we are on this Earth for a while, 离去就不再回来
and then we're not anymore? 大多数人不去想这些
Most of us just don't think about it. 当然  在某种意义上  你们是例外
Well, of course you are, in some sense, the exceptions. 你们花了一学期思考它
You've spent a semester thinking about it, 而且我会很欣慰
and I'll be largely content 如果你利用这个机会
if you've taken the opportunity this semester 认真地审视你相信的事情
to take a hard look at the things you believe. 至于你最终是否认同我
Whether or not you ended up agreeing with me, 认同我之前提出的那些观点
about the various claims that I've put forward, 并不重要  重要的是你借此
is less important than that you've taken the chance 认真审视自己的信仰  并且知道
to take a hard look at your beliefs and asked yourself 不是你希望的  你渴望的
not just what you hoped or wished 你相信的就是真的
or kind of believed was true, 而是真正有道理的才是真的
but what you could actually defend. 不过  话虽如此
Still, having said that, 我也不想装作
it would be disingenuous of me to pretend 不希望你们认可我的观点
that I don't also hope that you've come around-- 如果你一开始不认可我的观点
if you didn't start out believing what I believe-- 我希望你现在认可了
that you've come around to believing what I believe. 就像我第一天说的
As I pointed out on the first day, 大部分人对生命和死亡的本质
most people accept a great deal of this package 都有一整套这样的信念
of beliefs about the nature of life and death, 他们相信存在灵魂
that--They believe we have a soul, 我们除了身体以外还有灵魂
that there's something more to us than our bodies. 他们之所以相信  是因为
And they believe that because 他们认为  如果存在灵魂
they think, given the existence of a soul, 我们就有可能永远活着
we'll have the possibility of living forever. 永生就是可能的
Immortality is a possibility, 而我们都希望并渴求这种机会
and we all hope for and crave the possibility 永生的机会
that we will live forever 因为死亡是  而且绝对是可怕的
because death is, and must be, horrible. 可怕到我们尽量不去想它
It's so horrible that we try not to think about it. 可怕到当我们想到它时
It's so horrible that when we do think about it 我们就会充满恐惧  害怕和焦虑
we're filled with dread, terror and fear. 而且很明显这是对死亡
And it's just obvious that that's the only sensible reaction 唯一合理的反应
to the facts about life and death. 生命如此美妙  所以在任何情况下
Life is so incredible that under no circumstances 都不可能对生命终结感到高兴
could it ever make sense to be glad that it had come to an end. 永生令人向往
Immortality would be desirable; 自杀从来都不是理性的选择
suicide could never be a reasonable response. 通过本学期的课程
Over the course of this semester, 我说明了  这一整套信仰
I've argued that that package of beliefs, 尽管很常见
common as it may be, 但从头到尾都是错的
is mistaken, virtually from start to finish. 灵魂并不存在  我们只是机器
There is no soul, we are just machines. 但我们不是一般的机器
We're not just any old machine; 我们是神奇的机器
we are amazing machines. 我们这种机器能够恋爱  能够梦想
We are machines capable of loving, capable of dreaming, 能够创造
capable of being creative, 能够制定计划  并与人分享
capable of making plans and sharing them with others. 我们是人  但本质上还是机器
We are people. But we're just machines anyway. 当机器坏掉  那就是终结
And when the machine breaks, that's the end. 死亡不是什么
Death is not some 我们理解不了的艰深奥秘
big mystery which we can't get our heads around. 死亡在某种意义上并不比
Death is in some sense no more mysterious than the fact 灯泡坏掉  或着电脑坏掉
that your lamp can break, or your computer can break, 或任何其它机器坏掉神秘多少
or any other machine will eventually fail. 但我并不是说
I never meant to claim that 死亡不令人遗憾
it's not regrettable that we die the way we do. 当谈到永生时  我说过
As I argued when talking about immortality, 假如生活还能给我们更多东西
better still would be if only we had the prospect of living 那么就值得继续过下去
as long as life still had something left to offer us. 只要总的来讲生活是好事
As long as life would be good overall, 死亡就是坏事
death is bad, 而且我认为  对大多数人来说
and I think for most of us 死亡来得太早
death comes too soon. 但这么说并非意味着
But having said that, it doesn't follow 永生是好事
that immortality would be a good thing. 恰恰相反  永生是坏事
On the contrary, immortality would be a bad thing. 面对死亡
The reaction that makes sense 合理的反应
in thinking about the facts of death 并不是把它看得多神秘
is not to find it as some great mystery 可怕到想都不敢想
too dreadful to think about, 摧枯拉朽一般  而是
too overwhelming. But rather, 恐惧  我认为完全不是
fear, far from being 一种合理恰当的情绪
the rationally appropriate response I think, 是种不恰当的情绪
is an inappropriate response. 虽然我们会为死得太早而难过
Although we can be sad that we die too soon, 但它也许应该和另一件事同时考虑
that perhaps should be balanced by the fact of-- 我们认识到  我们能够拥有生命
the recognition of--just how incredibly lucky we all are 是多么幸运
to have been alive at all. 但是同时
Yet, at the same time, 认识到这种幸运
recognizing that sense of luck and being fortunate 并不意味着生活会
doesn't mean that we're always lucky 一直这么幸运下去
to be remaining alive. 对某些人来说  或早或晚
For some of us the time will come 他们不再幸运
in which that's no longer true, 那个时候
and when that happens 生命已经不值得坚持下去
life is not something to be held onto, 不论发生什么事情
come what may, 不论出现什么情况
under any and all circumstances. 有些人会走到
The time could come for some of us 应该撒手人寰的那一天
in which it's time to let go. 我下面希望你们做的
What I then invited you to do, 通过本学期的课程
over the course of the semester, 不只是自己想清楚
is not only to think for yourself 生命和死亡的真相
about the facts of life and death, 而且希望你们在面对死亡时
but I invite you all to come to face death 不再有恐惧和幻想
without fear and without illusion. 谢谢大家
Thanks very much. 
