


 Chapter 0: 课程介绍


All right, so this is Philosophy 176. The class is on death. My name is Shelly Kagan. The very first thing I want to do is to invite you to call me Shelly. That is, if we meet on the street, you come talk to me during office hours, you ask some question; Shelly's the name that I respond to. I will, eventually, respond to Professor Kagan, but the synapses take a bit longer for that. It's not the name I immediately recognize. I have found that over the years, fewer and fewer students feel comfortable calling me Shelly. When I was young, it seemed to work. Now I'm gray and august. But if you're comfortable with it, it's the name that I prefer to be called by. Now, as I say, this is a class on death. But it's a philosophy class, and what that means is that the set of topics that we're going to be talking about in this class are not identical to the topics that other classes on death might try to cover. So the first thing I want to do is say something about the things we won't be talking about that you might reasonably expect or hope that a class on death would talk about, so that if this is not the class you were looking for, you still have time to go check out some other class. So here are some things that a class on death could cover that we won't talk about. What I primarily have in mind are sort of psychological and sociological questions about the nature of death, or the phenomenon of death. So, a class on death might well have a discussion of the process of dying and coming to reconcile yourself with the fact that you're going to die. Some of you may know about Elisabeth K¨¹bler-Ross' discussion of the so-called five stages of dying. There's denial, and then there's anger, and then there's bargaining. I actually don't remember the five stages. We're not going to talk about that. Similarly, we're not going to talk about the funeral industry in America and how it rips off people, which it does, in their moments of grief and weakness and overcharges them for the various things that it offers. We're not going to talk about that. We're not going to talk about the process of grieving or bereavement. We're not going to talk about sociological attitudes that we have towards the dying in our culture and how we tend to try to keep the dying hidden from the rest of us. These are all perfectly important topics, but they're not, as I say, topics that we're going to be talking about in this class. So what will we talk about? Well, the things we'll talk about are philosophical questions that arise as we begin to think about the nature of death, like this. In broad scope, the first half of the class is going to be metaphysics, for those of you who are familiar with the philosophical piece of jargon. And roughly, the second half of the class is going to be value theory. So, the first half of the class is going to be concerned with questions about the nature of death. What happens when we die? Indeed, to get at that question, the first thing we're going to have to think about is what are we? What kind of an entity is a person? In particular, do we have souls, and for this class when I talk about a soul, what I'm going to mean is sort of a bit of philosophical jargon. I'm going to mean something immaterial, something distinct from our bodies. Do we have immaterial souls, something that might survive the death of our body? And if not, what does that imply about the nature of death? What kind of an event is death? What is it for me to survive? What would it mean for me to survive my death? What does it mean for me to survive tonight? That is, you know, somebody's going to be here lecturing to the class on Thursday, presumably that will be me. What is it for that person who's there on Thursday to be the same person as the person who's sitting here lecturing to you today? These are questions about the nature of personal identity. Pretty clearly, to think about death and continued existence and survival, we have to get clear about the nature of personal identity. These sorts of questions will occupy us for roughly the first half of the semester. And then we'll turn to value questions. If death is the end, is death bad? Now, of course, most of us are immediately and strongly inclined to think that death is bad. But there are a set of philosophical puzzles about how death could be bad. To sort of give you a quick taste, if after my death I won't exist, how could anything be bad for me? How could anything be bad for something that doesn't exist? So how could death be bad? So it's not that the result is going to be that I'm going to try to convince you that death isn't bad, but it takes actually a little bit of work to pin down precisely what is it about death that's bad and how can it be death? Is there more than one thing about death that makes it bad? We'll turn to questions like that. If death is bad, then one might wonder would immortality be a good thing? That's a question that we'll think about. Or, more generally, we'll worry about how should the fact that I'm going to die affect the way I live? What should my attitude be towards my mortality? Should I be afraid of death, for example? Should I despair at the fact that I'm going to die? Finally, we'll turn to questions about suicide. Many of us think that given the valuable and precious thing that life is, suicide makes no sense. You're throwing away the only life you're ever going to have. And so we'll end the semester by thinking about questions along the lines of the rationality and morality of suicide. So roughly speaking, that's where we're going. First half of the class, metaphysics; second half of the class, value theory. Next thing I need to explain is this. There's, roughly speaking, two ways to do a class, especially an introductory class like this. In approach number one, you simply lay out the various positions, pro and con, and the professor strives to remain neutral; sort of not tip his hand about what he holds. That's approach number one. And sometimes in my intro classes that's the approach that I take. But the other approach, and the one that I should warn you I'm going to take this semester, in this class, is rather different. There's a line that I'm going to be developing, pushing, if you will, or defending in this class. That is to say, there's a certain set of views I hold about the issues that we'll be discussing. And what I'm going to try to do in this class is argue for those views. Try to convince you that those views are correct. To help you know sort of ahead of time quickly what those views are, I want to start by describing a set of views that many of you probably believe. So I'm going to give you a cluster of views. Logically speaking, you could believe some of these things and not all of them. But here's a set of views that many of you probably believe, and I imagine most of you believe at least some of these things. So here's the set of common views. First of all, that we have a soul. That is to say we are not just bodies. We're not just lumps of bone and flesh. But there's a part of us, perhaps the essential part of us, that is something more than the physical, the spiritual, immaterial part of us, which as I say in this class we'll call a soul. Most of us, most of you, probably believe in souls. Certainly most people in America believe in some sort of immaterial soul. And given this existence of this immaterial soul, it's a possibility, indeed a fair likelihood, that we will survive our deaths. The death will be the destruction of my body, but my soul is immaterial and so my soul can continue to exist after my death. And whether or not you actually believe in a soul, you hope that there's a soul so so that there'll be this serious possibility of surviving your death because death is not only bad, but so horrible that what we would like to have happen is, we would like to live forever. And so, armed with a soul, as it were, there's at least the possibility of immortality. Immortality would be wonderful. That's what we hope is the case, whether or not we know that it's the case. Immortality would be wonderful. That's why death's so bad. It robs us of immortality. And if there is no soul, if death is the end, if there is no immortality, this is such an overwhelming bad thing that the only, the obvious reaction, the natural reaction, the universal reaction, is to face the prospect of death with fear and despair. And as I mentioned earlier then, death is so horrible and life is so wonderful that it could never make sense to throw it away. So suicide is both immoral on the one hand and never makes sense. It's always irrational as well, in addition. That, as I say, is I think a common set of views about the nature of death. And what I'm going to be doing, what I'm going to be arguing in this class, is that that set of views is pretty much mistaken from beginning to end. And so I'm going to try to convince you that there is no soul. Immortality would not be a good thing. Fear of death isn't actually an appropriate response to death. Suicide, under certain circumstances, might be rationally and morally justified. As I say, the common picture is pretty much mistaken from start to end. That's at least my goal. That's my aim. That's what I'm going to be doing. Now, since of course, I believe the views I believe... and I hope at the end of the semester you'll agree with me, because I think they're true and I hope you'll end up believing the truth. But I should say that the crucial point isn't for you to agree with me. The crucial point is for you to think for yourself. And so what I'm really doing is inviting you to take a good, cold, hard look at death, and to face it and think about it in a way that most of us don't do. If you, at the end of the semester, haven't agreed with me about this particular claim or that particular claim, so be it. I'll be content... I won't be completely content... but I'll be at least largely content as long as you've really thought through the arguments on each side of these various issues. Karen, maybe this would be a good time for you to pass around the syllabus. Next introductory remark: A lot of today's talk is going to be devoted to business. I'll get to, if time permits, some philosophy at the end. I want to make one more remark about what I'll be doing in terms of this class. This class, as I say, is a philosophy class. We'll basically be sitting here thinking about what we can know or make sense of with regard to death using our reasoning capacity. We'll be trying to think about death from a rational standpoint. One kind of evidence or one kind of argument that we won't be making use of here is appeal to religious authority. So some of you may believe in, for example, the existence of an afterlife. You may believe you're going to survive your death. You may believe in immortality because that's what your church teaches you. And that's fine. It's not my purpose or intention here to try to argue you out of your religious beliefs or to argue against your religious beliefs. All I'm going to ask is that we not appeal to such religious arguments, appeal to revelation or the authority of the Bible, or what have you, in the course of this argument. In the course of this class. If you want to, you could think of this class as one big hypothetical. What conclusions would we come to about the nature of death if we had to think about it from a secular perspective? Making use of only our own reasoning, as opposed to whatever answers we might be given by divine revealed authority. Those of you who believe in divine revealed authority, that's a debate for another day. It's not a debate that we're going to be engaged in here in this semester. Similarly, although I'm not going to ask you in your discussion sections to hide your religious views, you'll be asked in the course of defending them, to give reasons that would make sense to all of us. That's by way of sort of where the class is going. Let me now turn to some discussion about the requirements of the class, grades and so forth and so on. The syllabus is going around the class. Almost all of you have it at this point. The syllabus doesn't really say a whole lot. I've already given you an overview of what topics we'll be going to. The crucial point about the syllabus is that it indicates what reading you need to have done for any given week. Now, I've done my best to peg the readings to where I will be on that week's lecture, but I don't lecture with lecture notes, for the most part. Sometimes I take a little bit longer than I anticipated. Actually, I often take a little bit longer than I anticipated. No doubt at some point I'll fall behind. At some point I may rush to catch up ahead. It won't always be the case that the readings will exactly coincide with where the lectures are at. Nonetheless, in any given week, for the start of that week, you should have done the readings that are listed for that week. The readings on the syllabus simply say the author, and there are a couple of books that are available at the bookstore. There are a larger packet of readings that's available as a course pack at Tyco's [local print shop]. And so for any given week you can find the reading. One or two cases, maybe just one actually, where I've got more than one article by the given author, I've given the title of the article as well. It shouldn't be difficult to locate the reading for any given week. The format of the class, of course, is a familiar and straightforward one. I'll be sitting here lecturing twice a week, this time, 10:30 to 11:20. Once a week you will break up into discussion sections. The discussion sections will meet for 50 minutes. Each one of you will have a single time. But it'll be different times the discussion sections meet. For the first time, the philosophy department has just switched over to the online discussion section registration system. I'm not 100% certain how that works. I've not used it before. I take it the idea is something like this. Right now, if you were to shop the class, you could find the tentative list of discussion section days and times. So be sure to find some time that works for you. You can't actually register for any of those discussion section times yet. But as of, I think, next week when you're able to begin your online registration, you will be able to register for any discussion section In fact, you won't be able to finalize your registration for your courses until you've actually signed up for an available slot. Once you have registered, if some other slots become available that weren't previously available, I gather you'll be sent some sort of email by the system, in case some other time would be better for you. You can put yourself on waiting lists and so forth. It sounds pretty good on paper. Maybe it'll all work smoothly. I've never been through it before. I hope we won't have any problems. Right now what you want to make sure is that there is a time that's available... right now all the times are available... but that there is a time that works for you. Because if you can't find a discussion section that works for you, you won't be able to take this course. Any questions about that? I should actually ask, any questions about anything that I've asked or said so far, up to this point? Let me make a remark about questions, which is--today's mostly business. Hopefully, it'll be fairly straightforward. But both today and throughout the entire semester, as I'm lecturing I want to invite you to jump in with questions. Well, jump in is a bit of an exaggeration. I don't want you to just start talking, but raise your hand. If I'm saying something that you don't understand, the chances are pretty good that there's 25 or 50 other students in the class who don't understand it either. I'm just not being clear. So I want to welcome you, I really want to invite you, whenever you've got some reactions to the things that I'm saying, raise your hand, I'll call on you. Say, "Shelly, I didn't really understand what you were saying about the soul. Could you please explain that again?" Or, for that matter, if you've got some quick reactions or thoughts or responses to the arguments that I'm laying out and you want to share them with the class as a whole, then very much I want to invite you to do this. Now this class is too big for us to have some close, intimate conversation between the 150-180, however many students there are here. That's not going to happen. But the chance for detailed discussion , in the discussion section that's where that should happen. But still, there is the chance for brief reactions and definitely a chance for questions. I very much want to invite you to do that. So, if at any point you've got something you want to ask about or some two bits you want to add, raise your hand, wiggle it around, make sure I see you. I may want to finish the particular point that I'm making, but I'll try to come back to you and I'll then raise your question. And if I remember at least, I will repeat the question out loud so that everybody can hear it. I also want to say that I will try to have the practice of, after class ends, if you want to continue the discussion, towards the end, you have some questions that occurred to you, we didn't have a chance to share them with the class as a whole, I will, on a normal day, meet outside and continue to talk with however many of you want to do that until you're done. I just love talking about this stuff and I welcome you to come to my office hours. I invite you to ask questions in class or, if you prefer, after class as well. Again, any questions about any of that? Yeah. When are my office hours? That's a great question and I don't know the answer to it. I haven't planned them yet. On Thursday, start the class by asking me that and I'll give you an answer. All right. Other bits of business. I should say something about grades. Now many of you may have heard, many of you may know, and if you don't already know this, I should warn you, that I have a reputation around Yale as being a harsh grader. I know this is true, that is, I know I have the reputation, both because I periodically in my student evaluations get told I'm one of Yale's harsher graders, and because every now and then the Yale Daily News will have an article about grade inflation and they'll always ask me, " Well Professor Kagan is somebody..." Once there was a story on grade inflation that the Yale Daily News began by saying, " As Shelly Kagan (known at Yale as one of the hardest graders)." So I know I've got at least the reputation of being a hard grader. I don't actually know whether it's deserved or not, because Yale does not publish information about what the grading averages are. At other schools I've taught at there's been information along the lines of well the typical grade in an introductory course in the humanities is such and such. Shortly after I came here to Yale, and I started realizing that people thought I was a harder grader than most other Yale professors, I called the administration and asked, "Do you have this sort of information?" The answer is "Yes." "Will you give it to me?" The answer was "No." They don't share this information with the Yale faculty. Seems odd. The explanation, of course, actually isn't that hard to come by. The worry is that those of us who are harder graders than average, if the information were published, would feel guilty and sort of ease up on our grading. But those who are easier graders than average will never feel guilty and toughen up. So the result would be a constant push up with the grades. At any rate, I don't know for certainty that I'm a harder grader, but I believe that it's the case based on reactions I get when I give the speech that I'm about to give. Okay, so. When I open the blue book, the Yale guideline, the Yale catalog, it's got a page, as you all know, where it says what letter grades mean at Yale. I didn't actually bring it this year. Sometimes I do, but I've got it pretty much memorized. It says, for example, next to each letter grade what it means. B, for example, means good. A means excellent, C means satisfactory, D is passing, F is failing. B, let's start with B. B means good. Now the crucial question then is what does good mean? I take good to mean good. Consequently, if you were to write a good paper for me, that would get a B. And when you get a B from me... now, I say me, this is the royal me. Because I won't actually be grading your papers. Your papers will be graded by a small army of TAs. But they will grade under my supervision, and in keeping with the standards that I ask them to grade with. So when you're pissed off about your grade, the person to take it up with... well, take it up with them. But eventually you'll want to take it up with me. So when you get a B from us, B doesn't mean what a piece of crap. B means good job! And so you should be pleased to get a B, because it meant you were doing good work and it's not easy to do good work in philosophy. A means excellent. Now excellent does not mean publishable. Excellent does not mean you are God's gift to philosophy. So it's crucial to understand it doesn't mean that the only way you're going to get an A is to be God's gift to philosophy. A means excellent work for a first class in philosophy. This is an introductory class. It does not presuppose any background in philosophy. Still, to get an A, you've got to show some flair for the subject. You've got to show not only have you understood the ideas that have been put forward in the readings and in the lectures and so forth, but you see how to sort of put them together in the paper in a way that shows you've got some aptitude here. You did it in a way that made us take note. That's what we try to reserve As for. Some of you will end up getting As, if not at the beginning, by the end of the semester. Many of you will end up getting Bs, if not at the beginning, by the end of the semester. Many of you will not start out doing good work. Many of you will start out doing satisfactory work or, truth be told, less than satisfactory work. Now look, I was an undergraduate once. And I know what it is to write a typical undergraduate paper. You sit down the night before and you had a couple of ideas. You thought about it maybe for a half an hour. And you meant to get to it sooner, but you had a lot of other things to do. And you throw it off in a couple of hours and maybe stay up late. You know it's not the worst thing you ever wrote, and it's not the best thing you ever wrote, and it has a couple of nice ideas, but maybe it could be better. It's sort of a satisfactory job. Yale says satisfactory means C. So many of you will start off the semester writing that kind of paper. And the fact of the matter is, some of you will start off writing worse papers than that. Because writing a philosophy paper is a difficult thing to learn how to do. It's exercising a set of muscles that a lot of you have not spent a lot of time exercising. Now it's not as though you haven't spent any time doing it. You've had bull sessions, right, with your high school friends or in your college dorm or what have you. But you haven't done it with the kind of discipline and rigor that we're looking for here. So, like anything else, it's a skill that gets better with practice. And what that means, of course, is you won't do as well at the beginning as you're likely to be doing toward the end. Some of you, unfortunately, won't do very good jobs at the beginning... and my TAs, I'll encourage them to be prepared to give Ds. If the vices of the paper significantly outweigh the virtues, that's a D. If the vices very significantly outweigh whatever virtues there are, that's some kind of an F. So the fact of the matter is many of you in your initial papers will get lower grades than you've probably ever gotten before in your life. I wanted to warn you about that. Now I say this not so much to depress the hell out of you, but (a) partly to warn you, and (b) to make it clear that I believe that it's a skill. Writing a good philosophy paper is a skill and you can get better at it. Consequently, most of you will get better at it. So let me make the following remark. Officially, each paper--you have three five-page papers. Each paper is worth 25% of your grade, officially. But--the remaining 25% is discussion section; I'll get to that in a minute-- officially, 25% of your grade is for each of the three papers. But if, over the course of the semester, you get better, then we will give, at the end of the semester, when we're figuring out your semester grade, we'll give the later, stronger papers more than their official weight. For many of you, the first paper will be clearly the worst paper you write. And then we'll just throw that grade away; give greater weight to the second and third papers. If the third paper is the strongest, we will give even more weight to the third paper. There's no formula here, a great deal depends on the overall pattern, what your TA tells me about how you've done over the course of the semester. But this policy of giving greater weight, if you show improvement, is something that most of you will benefit from. So if you end up not doing well, the moral of the story is not to go running off and dropping the class, but to figure out what you did right, what you didn't do right, how to make the second paper better and the third paper stronger, again. And if you do show improvement, that will very significantly influence and emerge in terms of the impact it has on your overall semester grade. Because of this policy, I don't actually know when all is said and done whether at the end of the semester I'm any harder, whether I depart from the average or not. Let me quickly mention there's a fairly typical grade distribution for the overall grades of this, at the end of the semester. Roughly 25% of you are likely to end up with some kind of an A at the end of the semester. fifty 55% of you or so are likely to end up with some kind of a B. Twenty,25% percent of you might end up with some sort of a C. Sometimes there's a couple of percent that end up worse than that. Unsurprisingly, you've got the ability to do decent work in this class and most of you have the ability to do good work, and some of you have, a fair chunk of you have, the ability to do excellent work, though it may take some work on your part to get to that point. The last thing I should say about the grades is why do I do this? It's really I try to do it as a sign of respect for you. I know that may seem like a surprising thing to say when I've just sort of gone on my little gleeful amount about how I'm going to fail all of you, but it's worth my saying you guys are so smart. You're so talented. You've gotten so far on your ability that many of you have learned to coast. It's not doing you any kind of service to let you continue coasting. My goal here is to be honest with you, right? Look, you're smart enough probably most of you to pull off some sort of B without breaking into a sweat, or at least not a significant sweat. So be it. But it's just lying to you to pretend that that's excellence in philosophy. So what I want to do in this class is be honest with you and tell you, "You've really done work here to be extraordinarily proud of yourself" versus "Yeah, you've done something okay" or "You've done good work. Admittedly, it's not great, but you've done good work." All right, that's 75% of your grade is the papers. The remaining 25% of your grade is based on discussion section. Now that's a lot of your grade to turn on discussion section. So the first thing I need to tell you is I really mean it. If you blow off discussion section, you're grade will suffer. So it's worth knowing in a general way what you need to do to earn a good grade in discussion section and here the answer is, perhaps the obvious one, you need to participate. You need to come to discussion sections having thought about the lectures, having done the readings, having thought about the questions that they raise, and you need to come to discussion section then prepared to discuss this week's set of issues. You need to listen to what your classmates are saying and say why you disagree with them. And not just that you disagree with them, but to raise an objection. Or why you agree with them. And when somebody else then attacks them, say, "Look, I think that what John was saying was a good point and here's how I think he should have defended his position," or what have you. You need to engage in philosophical discussion. If you're not participating in discussion section, you're not doing what the section is there for. Philosophers love to talk and we love to argue. The way to get better at thinking about philosophy is by talking about philosophy. So I'm putting my money where my mouth is. I'm saying, "Look, yeah, that's an important part of the class. So important that it's going to be worth 25% of your grade." Again, it doesn't mean... this is slightly different from the papers... that you've got to be brilliant philosophically to get an A. Rather, you've got to be a wonderful class citizen to get an A for discussion section. So, as I put it, in fact I think I put it this way on the syllabus, participation--and here I mean respectful participation, not hogging the limelight... participation can improve your grade, but it won't lower your grade. Nonparticipation, or not being there, that will lower your participation grade. Any question about any of that? All right. So I'm sorry to have sort of the long gloom and doom, but it seems that it's only fair to let you know what you're getting into. One other remark about the discussion sections. The way I think of it is like the conversation hour for your foreign language class. How many of you have had a philosophy class before? Thanks. Maybe 15% of you. Maybe 20% of you. Most of you have not. That's pretty normal. Don't go into discussion section thinking, "Oh, I can't talk. I don't have any background in philosophy. I've never done this sort of thing before." That's true for most of you. The way you get better is by talking philosophy. All right. Next remark. I guess this is sort of just one last connection with regard to grades. This is an intro philosophy class. The crucial point about intro is it means first class in philosophy. It doesn't presuppose any background in philosophy. It doesn't necessarily mean easy. Some of this material for some of you is going to be very, very difficult. And although the number of pages that you'll have to read are not... there's not a lot. Probably in a typical week, 50 pages, maybe less. For many of you, you're going to find it dense material. And although I don't really have the fantasy that many of you will read this stuff twice, if you had the time to do it, that would be a wonderful thing to do. Philosophy is hard stuff to read. Other remark about this being an intro class is that it's introductory in that the issues that we're talking about are kind of first run through. Every single thing that we discuss here could be pursued at greater depth. So, for example, we'll spend whatever it is, maybe a week and a half talking about the nature of personal identity, two weeks. But one could easily spend an entire semester thinking about that question alone. So don't come away thinking that whatever it is that we've talked about here in lecture is the last word on the subject. Rather, it's something more like first words. Actually, one other word about the readings and the lectures. With one exception, I won't be spending very much time talking about the readings. The exception is Plato, where I'll lecture, maybe two lectures, trying to reconstruct Plato's central arguments, at least the arguments relevant to our class. We'll be reading one of Plato's dialogues. But for the most part, although I'll occasionally, periodically refer to the readings, I won't spend a lot of time talking about the views in the readings. The readings you should think of as complementary to my lectures. The idea is that there's more to say than what I've said. And you'll find some more of what there is to say in the readings. Or there may be positions that I mention, but I don't develop, because I'm not perhaps sympathetic to them, and you might find somebody who is sympathetic to them, developing them in the readings. The readings are a crucial component of the class. You won't get everything you need simply by coming to the lectures. But equally the case, that the views that I'll be developing in the lectures are, although not necessarily unique to me, aren't all laid out in the readings. You won't get everything I'm talking about in the lectures, if all you do is the readings. They're both parts of the class. All right. I want to end by... I'm not close to ending, but the last thing I'm going to do is read aloud some student evaluations. I have found over the years that some students like me; some students don't like me. I don't know how to make this point any clearer than to share with you a sampling of the student evaluations. These are not actually from last spring, but they're typical enough that I was too lazy to make some new quotes. Quote one. These are actual quotes from former actual students. (1) "The lectures were clear and followed a very logical order." (2) "I thought the class was not always organized." (3) "I thought it was a very well organized class." (4) "Overall, I was unsatisfied with this course. Few substantive conclusions were reached." (5) Along the same vein, " I think he should avoid saying at the end of each segment of the class, Ultimately, you'll have to decide what to think for yourself." I should end the class by saying, " You will believe." Actually, I started the class by saying that. You will believe what I believe. (6) "It might be improved by presenting other views better and more objectively, since Kagan always ended a particular line of reasoning by defeating the argument if he didn't agree with it. He could be a bit more unbiased and tolerant of other perspectives." (7) "Lectures were sometimes repetitive or obvious, but occasionally, they provided new insights." (8) "I know that some felt the pace of the arguments was a little slow, but I felt that this was generally necessary, not only for the unphilosophy-savvy population, but also to cover all points." (9) "Extremely thorough and thoughtful. Receptive to questions. Brilliant." I like that one. "Often long-winded." Hmmm. (10) "He does go around and around the same idea a number of times, which does cut down on the notes for the class, but it can get a little boring." (11) "Though I've heard students say he often repeats himself, I think this is a merit in a philosophy course in which arguments and thoughts can quickly become confusing." (12) "Shelly Kagan is a fabulous, resourceful, utterly convincing lecturer." (13) "He would work through arguments right in front of--" I like this one, because this is what I at least aim to be inside my head. Here's what I'm doing. Thirteen: "He would work through arguments right in front of us, which then helped me work through them on my own." (14) "Shelly is an incredibly dynamic lecturer." (15) "He's just in his own world babbling on and on. I'd zone out with regularity." (16) "I have to say that Shelly Kagan is probably the best lecturer I had in my four years at Yale." (17) "He's the type of teacher you either love or hate." Now that's pretty clearly true. I wish there were some easy litmus test that I could just give you so you'd know which of you would be making a mistake taking this class. I don't know how to give it to you. Next topic, grades. (1) "He tried to intimidate us too much with his promise of impossible grading so that everyone took the class credit/D/fail, when we all probably ended up with As or Bs. His grading was not hard." (2) "I recommend it, but only credit/D/fail. Professor Kagan is harsh with grading." (3) "When Shelly says he's the harshest grader on campus, he isn't lying. I was consistently surprised by how poorly I did on papers. The standards in this class are just different from all other classes." (4) "Kagan's reputation as a harsh grader is unfounded. If you put in the effort, the grade will reflect that." So that settles the question am I a harsh grader or not. The last question for the evaluation is should you take the class or not? Would you recommend it to somebody else? (1) "I believe this class is one of the most mind-opening experiences of my life." (2) "No. It's a waste of a course." (3) "It gets kind of depressing at times, but I suppose that's due to the nature of the subject." (4) "This course stands out as one of the more unique and stimulating courses I've taken at Yale." (5) "Excellent class. It made me think about life and death in a new way. What more can you ask for from a class?" (6) "I would not recommend it. The class just seemed to be a platform for Kagan to throw out random ideas and the students were never required to engage in any thought." Well, that clears that up. Let me end with a couple of other quick remarks. One--these are some of my all-time favorites from previous years. (1) "Not doing the reading didn't hurt me at all." Now, these are anonymous comments. I don't know who wrote this comment. But I do know this. Whoever wrote this remark is an idiot. Whoever wrote this remark seems to be under the impression that the point of being at Yale is to spend $40,000 a year of your parents' money and get away with learning as little as possible. Well, for those of you who want to try it, you probably could pass this class and maybe even get an okay grade without doing the readings. There's no final exam. But still, it's crucial to understand, doing the readings is an important part of learning what this course has to offer. Different quote. "Kagan is a self-righteous little man" Now I've got to tell you, that bit about being little, that really hurts. Another one. "Great course. Wonderful professor. Fascinating subjects. The deepest thinking I've done in my life." Final quote. "This class taught me how to think more than any other at Yale." I don't know whether I pull it off. Pretty obviously, for a number of students, I don't manage to pull it off, but that's at least what my aim is. I'm trying to help you think. I welcome you and I hope you'll be back on Thursday. 



 Chapter 1: 人的本质： 二元论与物理主义


The first question we want to discuss has to do with the possibility of my surviving my death. Is there life after death? Is there a possibility that I might still exist or survive after my death? Now at first glance...and in fact, I think, at second glance it's going to turn out to be true-- you might think that the answer to this question would depend on two basic issues. Do I survive my death? Do we survive our deaths? You think, the first thing we have to get clear on is well what am I? What kind of a thing am I? Or generalizing, what kind of thing is a person? What are we made of? What are our parts? It seems plausible to think that before we could answer the question, "Do I survive?" we need to know how I'm built. And so the first thing we're going to spend a fair bit of time on is trying to get clear on what's a person? What are the fundamental building blocks of a person? The second question that you might think we'd want to get clear on is, "What's the idea, or what's the concept, of surviving?" Before we ask, "Do I survive?" we need to get clear on "What am I?" and "What is it to survive?" What is it for something that exists in the future to be me? Now this question can be discussed philosophically in quite general terms. What's the nature of persistence of identity over time? But since we're especially interested in beings like us, people, this topic, this sub-specialized version of the question of identity, gets discussed under the rubric of the topic, personal identity. What's the key or the nature or the basis of personal identity? As we might put it: What is it for somebody who's here next week to be the same person as me? What's the nature of personal identity? So, as I say, at first glance you might think to get clear on the answer, "Do I or might I or could I survive my death?" we need to know, what am I? What's a person? What's the metaphysical composition of people, on the one hand? And we need to get clear on the nature of identity or persistence or, more specifically, personal identity. Now as I say, I believe that when push comes to shove, we do need to get clear about both of those questions and so that's going to take the first several weeks of the class. We're going to spend a couple of weeks talking about, "What's a person?" And then we're going to spend several weeks, or at least a week or so, talking about the nature of personal identity. But before we can even get started, there's a question, really an objection to the whole enterprise. So we're about to spend a lot of time asking the philosophical question: Is there life after death? Could there be life after death? Might I survive my death? But there's a philosophical objection to the entire question. And the objection is fairly simple. It says the whole question is misconceived. It's based on a confusion. Once we see the confusion, we can see what the answer to our question is. Could I survive my death? The answer has got to be-- this is what the objection says-- the answer has got to be, obviously not. All right, so here's the objection. I should mention that the very first reading that you're going to be doing is a couple of pages from Jay Rosenberg, a contemporary philosopher. He gives us a version of this objection. So I'll give you one version. You'll have another version in your readings. The objection basically says: What does it mean to say that somebody's died? We're asking, "Is there life after death?" What does it mean to say that somebody has died? Well a natural definition of death might be something like the end of life. So then, if that's right, then to ask, "Is there life after death?" Is just asking, "Is there life after the end of life?" The answer to that ought to be pretty obvious. Well, obviously, the answer to that is no. After all, if we're saying once you've run out of life, is there any more life? Well, duh! That's like asking, when I've eaten up all the food on my plate, is there any food left on my plate? Or what happens in the movie after the movie ends? These are stupid questions, because once you understand what they're asking, the answer is just built in. It follows trivially. So although it has seemed to people over the ages that the question, "Is there life after death?" is one of the great mysteries, one of the great philosophical things to ponder, the objection says that's a kind of illusion. In fact, once you think about it, and not all that long, you can see the answer's got to be no. There couldn't possibly be life after death. There couldn't possibly be life after the end of life. Or suppose we ask the question in a slightly different way. Might I survive my death? Well what does the word "Survive" Mean? Well, survive is something like we say that somebody's a survivor if something's happened and they haven't died. They're still alive. When there's a car accident, you ask, so-and-so died, so-and-so survived. This person survived. To say that they survived is just saying that they're still alive. So, "Might I survive my death?" is like asking, "Might I still be alive after" well what's death? Death is the end of life. So..."Might I still be alive after I've stopped living? Might I be one of the people who didn't die when I died?" Gosh, the answer to that is, again, duh! No. You couldn't possibly survive your death, given the very definition. It should remind us of-- at least it reminds me of this joke that you probably told. It seemed hysterical when you were seven. The plane crashes exactly on the border of Canada and the United States. Exactly on the border. There's dead people everywhere. Where do they bury the survivors? The answer is: You don't bury the survivors. So when you're seven you think, "I don't know. Do they bury them in Canada? Do they bury them in America?" The answer is: You don't bury the survivors, because survivors are people that haven't yet died. So, "Can I survive my death?" Is like asking, "Could I not have yet died after died " The answer is, of course, you have to have died if you died and you haven't survived if you've died. So the question can't even get off the ground. That, at least, is how the objection goes. Now I don't mean to be utterly dismissive of the objection. That's why I spent a couple of minutes trying to spell it out. But I think there's a way to respond to it. We just have to get clearer about what precisely the question is that we're trying to ask. This is something that Rosenberg tries to get clear on as well. So here's my attempt to make the question both a bit more precise, and a question that's an open question. A question we can legitimately raise. Well, now as you will hear on several occasions over the course of the semester, I'm a philosopher. What that means is I don't really know a whole lot of facts. So I'm about to tell you a story where I wish I knew the facts. I don't know the facts. If I could really do it right, I'd now open the door and bring in our guest physiologist, who would then provide the facts that I'm--what I'm about to go is "Blah, blah, blah." But we have the physiologist come in and he'd actually tell us these things. I don't know them. I don't have that person. But take a look at what happens when a body dies. Now, no doubt, you can kill people in a lot of different ways. You can poison them, you can strangle them, you can shoot them in the heart. The causal paths that result in death may start different, but I presume that they converge and you end up having a set of events take place. Now what are those events? This is exactly where I don't really know the details, but I take it it's something like: because of whatever the original input was, eventually the blood's no longer circulating and oxygen isn't making its way around the body. So the brain becomes oxygen-starved. Because of the lack of oxygen getting to the cells, the cells are no longer able to carry on their various metabolic processes. Because of this, they can't repair the various kinds of damage they need, or create the amino acids and proteins they need. So as decay begins to set in and the cell structures begin to break down, they don't get repaired as they would normally do, and so eventually have breakdown of the crucial cell structure and boom, the body's dead. Now as I say, I don't really know whether that's accurate, the little rough story I just told, but some story like that is probably right. And in typical philosophical fashion, I've drawn that story for you up here on the board. So the events that I don't really know the details of, we can just call B1, B2, B3, up through Bn. Before B1 begins, you've got the body working, functioning, in its bodily way--respirating, reproducing the cells, and so forth and so on. And at the end of the process, by Bn, the body's dead. B for bodily. B1 through Bn; that's what death is. At least, that's what death of the body is. As I say, it's the sort of thing that somebody from the medical school or a biologist or a physiologist or something could describe for us. So here's the question then. Suppose we call that process "Death of the body." Call what has occurred by the end of that sequence of events, "Bodily death." Now here's a question that we can still ask, at least it looks as though we can still ask it. Might I, or do I, still exist after the death of my body? Might I still exist after bodily death? I don't mean to suggest in any way that we yet know the answer to that question, but at least that's a question that it seems as though we can coherently raise. There's no obvious contradiction in asking: Might I still exist after the death of my body? The answer could turn out to be no. But at least it's not obviously no. If the answer turns out to be no, it's going to take some sustained argument to settle it one way or the other. The answer could turn out to be yes, for all we know at this point. This just brings us back to the thought that whether or not I could still exist after the death of my body looks like it should depend on what I am. So in a minute, that's the question that I'm going to turn to. But it's a bit cumbersome to constantly be asking: Might I still exist after the death of my body? So no harm is done, once we've clarified the question that we're trying to ask, if we summarize that question in a bit of a jargon or slogan. We say, instead of asking: Might I survive? Might I continue to exist after the death of my body? you might put it this way. You might say for short: Will I survive the death of my body? No harm done. Will I survive my death? Because what we were just stipulating we mean when we talk about my death in the context of this question is the death of my body. No harm done. We can just say for short: Will I survive my death or might I survive my death? For that matter, no serious harm done if we ask: Is there life after death? As long as we understand that what we're not asking about there is life of my body. Just another familiar way of trying to ask: Will I still be around after my death? Will I still exist after my death? So I think there's a perfectly legitimate question and that's the question we now want to turn to. As I said, it looks as though to answer the question, "Could I continue to exist after the death of my body?" "Is there life after death?" "Could I survive my death?" for short...to answer that question, we need to get clearer about: What exactly is it for something to be me? That's a question we'll turn to in a couple of weeks. First, we've got to get clearer about: What am I? What kind of an entity am I? What am I made of? In philosophical jargon, this is a question from metaphysics. So we're asking the metaphysical question: What kind of a thing is a person? It seems plausible to think that whether or not a person can survive or continue to exist after the death of his or her body should depend on how he's built, what he's made of, what his or her parts are. So, let me sketch for you two basic positions on this question. What is a person? Two basic positions. They're both, I imagine, fairly familiar. What we're going to have to do is try to decide between them. They're not the only possible positions on the question of the metaphysics of the person. But they're, I think, the two most prominent positions and definitely the ones most worth taking seriously for our purposes. So, first possible position is this. A person is a combination of a body and something else a mind. But the crucial thing about this first view that we want to talk about is that the mind is thought of as something separate from, and distinct from, the body. To use a common enough word, it's a soul. So people are, or people have, or people consist of, bodies and souls. The soul is something, as I say, distinct from the body. I take it the idea of the body is a familiar one. It's this lump of flesh and bone and muscle that's sitting here in front of you and that each one of you sort of drags around with you. It's the sort of thing that we can put on a scale and prod with a stick and the biologists can study, presumably made up of various kinds of molecules, atoms and so forth. So we've got the body. But on this first view, we also have something that's not body. Something that's not a material object. Something that's not composed of molecules and atoms. It's a soul. It's the house of, or the seat of, or the basis of, consciousness and thinking, perhaps personality. But the crucial point for this view is that the proper metaphysical understanding of the mind is to think of it in nonphysical terms, nonmaterial terms. That, as I say, is the first basic view. I'm going to say more about that view, a fair bit more about that view, over the next couple of weeks. First, let me sketch the other basic view. So this first view we can call "The dualist view." Dualist, of course, because there's two basic components-- the body and the soul. Although I may occasionally slip, I'm going to try to preserve the word "Soul." When I use the word "Soul," I'm going to have in mind this dualist view according to which the soul is something immaterial, nonphysical. Some other kind... the body is a material substance. The soul is an immaterial substance. That's the dualist view. The alternative view that we're going to consider is not dualist, but monist. It says there's one basic kind of thing and only one basic kind of thing. There are bodies. So what's a person? A person is just a certain kind of material object. A person is just a body. Of course, it's a very fancy material object. It's a very amazing material object. That's what this second view says. The person is a body that can do things that most other material objects can't do. So on the monist view-- which we'll call "Physicalism," because it says that what people just are, are these physical objects--on the physicalist view, a person is just a body that can...you fill in the blank. You point out the kinds of things that we can do. We can talk. We can think. We can sing. We can write poetry. We can fall in love. We can be afraid. We can make plans. We can discover things about the universe. According to the physicalist view, a person is just a body that can do all of those things: can reflect, can be rational, can communicate, can make plans, can fall in love, can write poetry. That's the physicalist view. As I say, we've got two basic positions. There's the dualist view--people are bodies and souls. And there's the physicalist view, according to which there are no souls. There are no immaterial objects like that. There are only bodies, though when you've got a functioning body like ours, so the physicalist says, these bodies can do some pretty amazing things. The kind of things that we all know people can do. Two basic views. From a logical point of view, I suppose you might have a third possible view. If we've got the monist who says there's bodies but there's no souls, you could imagine somebody who says there are souls but there are no bodies. This would roughly be a view according to which there are minds, but there aren't really physical objects. Physical objects are a kind of illusion, perhaps, that we fall into. Or thinking about them in materialistic terms might be greatly confused or mistaken. This view is sometimes known in philosophy as idealism: all that exists, are minds and their ideas. Physical objects is just a way of talking about the ideas the mind has or something like that. Idealism is a position that's got a very long history in philosophy and for many classes would be worth taking a fair bit of time to consider more carefully. But for our purposes, I think it's not a contender. So I'm just going to put it aside. The positions that I'm going to... and there are other possibilities as well. There are views where mind and body are just two different ways of looking at the same underlying reality where the underlying reality is neither physical nor mental. That view's also worth taking seriously in a metaphysics class, but for our purposes, I mention it and put it aside. The two views we are going to focus on are, on the one hand, the dualist view- people have souls as well as bodies-- and the physicalist view-- all we have, all we are, are bodies. Let me say something more then about the dualist position. According to the dualist, the mind is this immaterial substance and we could call it by different names. No harm would be done if we call it a mind, though the reason I will typically talk about a soul is to try to flag the crucial point of the dualist view. The mind is based in, or just is something nonphysical, something nonmaterial, we can call it a mind we can call it a soul we can call it a psyche we typically try to call it a soul. the soul can direct and give orders to the body, on the one hand. On the other hand, the body generates input that eventually gets sensed or felt by the soul. You take a pin and you stick it through my flesh of my body and I feel pain in my soul, in my mind. So, two-way interaction. As always with philosophy, there's more complicated versions of dualism where maybe the interaction doesn't work both ways, but let's just limit ourselves to good, old-fashioned, two-way interactionist dualism. So my mind controls my body. My body can affect my mind in various ways. But for all that, they're separate things. Still there's this very tight connection. We sometimes put it: the soul is in the body, though talking about spatial locations here may be somewhat metaphorically intended. It's not as though we think that if you start opening up the body you'd finally find the particular spot. Here's the place where the soul is located. Though it does seem, from this dualist perspective, as though souls are located, I'm sort of viewing the world from here. Just like each of you is viewing the world from a particular location. So maybe your soul is located, more or less, in the vicinity of your body. Crucial point, of course, the attraction of the dualist view, from our point of view, is that if there's a soul as well as the body, and the soul is something immaterial, then when the body dies, when we have B1 through Bn and the death of the body occurs. So at the end of Bn, the body stops repairing itself. Decay sets in. We all know the sad story. The worms crawl in, the worms crawl out. At the end of the day-- well it maybe it takes longer than a day-- the body has decomposed. Yes, all that bespeaks the end of the body. But if the soul is something immaterial, then that could continue to exist, even after the destruction of the body. That's the attraction, at least one of the attractions, of the dualist view. The belief in the soul gives you something to continue to exist after the end of your body. So what's death? Well, if normally there's this super tight connection between my soul and my body, death might be the severing of that connection. So the body breaks and no longer is able to give input up to the soul. The soul is no longer able to control the body and make it move around. But for all that, the soul might continue to exist. And so at least the possibility that I'll survive my death is one worth taking very, very seriously if we are dualists. A couple of things to point out about this view. One is I've been talking as though a person is a combination, kind of a soul and body sandwich. So a person has two basic building blocks. The bodily part and the soul part. It's natural to talk that way, but if we want belief in the soul to help us hold out the possibility at least that there might be life after death, then I think we need to actually say that strictly speaking, it's not that a person is a soul plus a body. Strictly speaking, I think we need to say the person just is the soul. After all, if the person is the combination, if the person is the pair, soul plus the body, destroy the body, you've destroyed the pair. If the person is the pair and the pair no longer exists, the person no longer exists. So if we want belief in a soul to help us leave open the door to the possibility that I survive the destruction of my body, it had better not be that the body is an essential part of me. It's simpler, more straightforward to say instead, "What I am strictly speaking is a soul." As long as the soul exists, I exist. Of course, my soul, me, I, have a very tight connection to a particular body. But still, you could, in principle, destroy the body without destroying me. Look, I have a particularly close connection to the house I live in. But for all that, you can destroy my house without destroying me. So that's I think the position that we ought to ascribe to the dualist. The person is, strictly speaking, the soul. The soul has a very intimate connection with the body, but the person is not the soul and the body. The person is just the soul. So even if that intimate connection gets destroyed, the person, the soul, could continue to exist. The second point to clear up is that there's really three different issues that might interest us. One, metaphysically, are bodies and souls distinct? Is the mind to be understood in terms of this immaterial object, the soul? So are there two kinds of things? That's the first question. Are souls and bodies distinct? Second question, though, is: Does the soul, even if it exists, survive the destruction of the body? It could be something separate without surviving. That's why I've tried to say if there are souls, at least that opens the door to the possibility that we will survive our death. But, it doesn't guarantee it, because absent further argumentation, there's no guarantee that the soul survives the death of the body. Even if it's separate, it could be that it gets killed at the very same time or destroyed at the very same time that the body's being destroyed. Maybe when these physical processes, B1 through Bn, take place, they set into motion...remember, after all we're interactionist dualists. There's this very tight causal connection between the body and the mind and the soul and the body, the body and the soul. Just like when you prick my body, that bodily process sets up certain things taking place in my soul. Maybe when B1 through Bn take place, they set up some other processes in my soul. Call them S1 through Sn. And maybe S1 through Sn results in the destruction of my soul. So simultaneously with my body dying, my soul dies. Okay, this one's going to be a little bit trickier to draw. The first part, S1..., that's easy. Sn. The question is: How do I draw the soul? I don't really know. So the mere fact that we decide, if we do ultimately decide that there is a soul, something nonphysical, separate and distinct from the body, doesn't guarantee that we survive our physical death. That's going to be a separate question we'll have to turn to. The first question's going to be: Are there any souls? Next question is going to have to be: If there are, do we have any good reason to think that they survive the death of the body? Third question that might interest us, that does interest us, is this: If it survives, how long does it survive? Does the soul continue to exist after the death of the body? Does it continue to exist forever? Are we immortal? Most of us would like that to be true. We want there to be souls so that we can be immortal. And so the question's got to be not only, is the soul distinct? Does it survive the death of my body? But does it continue to exist forever? Those questions-- hang on one second-- are ones that especially interest Plato. So in about a week or so we'll start reading Plato's Phaedo. The purpose of that dialogue, of that philosophical work, is to argue for the immortality of the soul. That's a question we'll be turning to. Yeah? Great. So the question is this. If the very idea of soul that we're working with here under the dualist picture is the soul as an immaterial substance, it's not made of ordinary atomic matter. If the soul is immaterial, doesn't it follow automatically, trivially, that the soul can't be destroyed by a material process? After all, there was death of the body, B1 through Bn. That's a material process, a physical process. Doesn't it follow that a soul, an immaterial entity, can't be destroyed by a material, physical process? That's a great question. What I want to say is, the short answer for now is, I don't think it follows automatically. It doesn't follow trivially. It may follow. Plato's actually going to give us some arguments for pretty much that same claim. Plato's going to argue once we understand the sort of metaphysical nature of the soul, we'll see why it couldn't be destroyed. That's going to take some fancy arguments. The reason I think it doesn't follow trivially is because, remember, I said we're dealing with interactionist dualism. We've already admitted that bodies are able to affect the soul, right? The body is having all sorts of light bounce off my eyes of various wavelengths. And because of that my soul is having various visual sensations about the number of people in front of me, colors, and so forth and so on. I gave the example of pricking my body. That's a physical process that causes some sorts of changes in the mental processes occurring in my soul. Once we've admitted that on this kind of dualist picture the material body can influence what happens in the immaterial soul, then it doesn't seem that we have any grounds for shutting the door to the possibility that the right physical process, B1 through Bn, might set up this horrible mental, soul process, S1 through Sn, resulting in the destruction of the soul. It's a possibility. It's going to take more arguments to rule it out. Yeah? Yeah, another great question. The question was: I said it seems plausible to say my soul is located, more or less, here because I seem to view the world from here. But maybe that's not right. Maybe we shouldn't talk about the location of the soul at all. After all, if the soul is an immaterial object, can immaterial objects have locations? I don't know. The short answer is I don't know. I know very little about how immaterial objects are supposed to work. So although I'm trying to sketch the dualist position, as I explained on Tuesday, I don't myself believe in souls. I don't actually think that the dualist view is correct. You might say, I'll leave that problem-- are souls spatially located or not-- to be worked out by those who believe in it. For our purposes, I think it doesn't really matter. If you want to say souls have a location, where are they located? They're located more or less where my body is. At least, as long as my body's working. Maybe at death the soul gets liberated from the body and is able to wander more freely. Sometimes people talk about, in fact we'll be reading about this, out-of-body experiences. And so maybe during those unusual times the soul wanders from the body and comes back to it. Or, alternatively, maybe the soul doesn't have any location at all. Maybe that's just an illusion created by the fact that I'm getting this visual input from my body . My body certainly has a location. Maybe the right way-- imagine somebody who was in a room with remote control television setup and so forth and so on. And he's seeing what's happening in Chicago, even though he's sitting in a room in New Haven. Well, you could understand why he might fall into the trap of thinking of himself as located in Chicago with all the visual inputs coming from Chicago. So maybe that's how it works with the soul. We get lulled into thinking that we are where our bodies are. But that's really a metaphysical illusion. I don't really know. For our purposes, I think it's not crucial. Though it's a great question, but I'm not going to try to pursue it any further. All right. So one question: Is there a soul? Second question: Does it survive the death of our body? Third question: If it does, does it live forever? Does it continue to exist forever? Is the soul immortal? We will initially think about the first question: Do we have any good reason to believe in souls at all? And only after a while will we turn to the second and third question: Does it survive and, more particularly, is it immortal? That's the first basic view about the nature of a person. A person has a soul, something immaterial and not a body. I take it that the view is a familiar one. Many of you probably believe in it. Those of you who don't believe in it have probably, at least, been tempted to believe in it. I'm sure you all do know people who believe in it. It's a very familiar picture. But, of course, the question we're going to have to ask ourselves is: Is it right? Is there reasons to believe it's correct? Turn now to the second basic view, the physicalist view, according to which a person is just a body. This is a materialist view. People are just material objects, the sorts of things biologists poke and prod and study. It's important... I think this is the crucial point... that when we say a person is just a body, we don't understand that to mean... the physicalist doesn't mean that as-- a person is just any old body. It's not as though there aren't important differences between different physical objects. Some physical objects can do things of a far more interesting sort than other physical objects. Here's a piece of chalk. It's a physical object. It's just a body. What can it do? Well, not a whole lot. I can write on the board with it. I can break it in two. You let go of it, it drops down. Not a very interesting physical body. Here's a cell phone. It's just a body. It's not the most interesting physical object in the world, but it's a whole lot more interesting than a piece of chalk. It can do all sorts of things a piece of chalk can't do. If the physicalist is right, then here's another physical object for you... me, Shelly Kagan. I'm a pretty impressive physical object. Now arrogant as I may be, I don't mean to suggest I'm any more impressive than you guys are. Each one of us, according to the physicalist, is just a body that can do some amazing things. We are bodies that can think. We are bodies that can plan. We are bodies that can reason. We are bodies that can feel. We are bodies that can be afraid and be creative and have dreams and aspirations. We are bodies that can communicate with each other. We are bodies that are... well, here's a word for it: We're bodies that are people. But on the physicalist view, a person is just a body. And that's where we'll take it up next time. 



 Chapter 2: 灵魂存在与否的论证（一）


Today we're going to take up the discussion where we left it last time. We were talking about two main positions with regard to the question, "What is a person?" On the one hand, we have the dualist view; that's the view that we spent a fair bit of time sketching last meeting. The dualist view, according to which a person is a body and a soul. Or perhaps, strictly speaking, what we should say is the only part that's essential to the person is the soul, though it's got a rather intimate connection to a particular body. That's the dualist view. In contrast to that, we've got the physicalist view, according to which there are just bodies. A person is just a body, as we might put it. Now, the crucial point here, the point I was turning to as we ended last time, is that although a person on the physicalist view is just a body, a person isn't just any old body. A person is a body that has a certain set of abilities, can do a certain array of activities. People are bodies that can think, that can communicate, that are rational, that can plan, that can feel things, that can be creative, and so forth and so on. Now, we might argue about what's the exact best list of those abilities. For our purposes, I think that won't be crucial, and so I'll sometimes talk about this set of abilities without actually having a canonical list. Just think of them as the set of abilities that people have, the things that we can do that other physical objects-- chalk, radios, cars-- those things can't do. Call those the abilities that make something a person. To just introduce a piece of jargon, we could call those the P abilities, P for person. Or we could talk about the various kinds of ways-- this is the physicalist way of thinking about it-- according to the physicalist, a person is just a body that has the ability to fulfill the various P functions. And we can talk, then, about a person as a P-functioning body. Or we could say that a person is a body that is P-functioning. It's important to see that the idea is, although it's a body, it's not just any old body. Indeed, it's not just any old human body. After all, if you rip out your gun, shoot me in the heart, I bleed to death, we still have a human body in front of us. But we don't have a P-functioning body. We don't have a body that's able to think, a body that's able to plan, to communicate, to be creative, to have goals. So the crucial thing about having a person is having a P-functioning body. Now, what's a mind on this view? On the physicalist view, it's still perfectly legitimate to talk about minds. The point, though, is that from the physicalist perspective, the best thing to say is, talk about a mind is a way of talking about these various mental abilities of the body. We nominalize it. We talk about it using a noun, the mind. But talk of the mind is just a way of talking about these abilities that the body has when it's functioning properly. This is similar, let's say, to talking about a smile. We believe that there are smiles. Physicalists don't deny that there are minds. Just like we don't deny, we all believe, that there are smiles. But what is a smile? Well, a smile is just a way of talking about the ability of the body to do something. This characteristic thing we do with our lips exposing our teeth and so forth. It's a smile, a rather dorky smile, but there's a smile. Now, if you were listing the parts of the body, you would list the teeth, you would list the lips, you would list the gums, you would list the tongue, but you wouldn't list the smile. So, should we conclude, as dualists, that smiles are these extra nonphysical things that have a special intimate relationship with bodies? Well, you could imagine a view like that, but it would be rather a silly view. Talk about a smile is just a way of talking about the body's ability to smile. There's no extra part. Even though we have a noun, the smile, that if you're not careful might lull you into thinking there must be a thing, the smile. And then you'd have all these metaphysical conundrums. Where is the smile located? It seems to be in the vicinity of the mouth. But the smile isn't the lips. The smile isn't the teeth. So it must be something nonphysical. No, that would just be a silly way to think about smiles. Talk of smiles is just a way of talking about the ability of the body to smile, to form a smile. That's an ability that we have, our bodies have. Similarly, then, according to the physicalist, talk of the mind, despite the fact that we have a noun there, is just a way of talking about the abilities of the body to do various things. The mind is just a way of talking about the fact that our body can think, can communicate, can plan, can deliberate, can be creative, can write poetry, can fall in love. Talk of all of those things is what we mean by the mind, but there's no extra thing, the mind, above and beyond the body. That's the physicalist view. So it's important, in particular, to understand that from the physicalist's point of view, the mind is not the brain. You might think, "Look, according to physicalists minds are just brains." And that wouldn't be a horrendously misleading thing to say, because according to the best science that we've got, the brain is the part of the body that is the seat or house or the underlying mechanical structure that gives us these various abilities. These P functions are functions that we have by virtue of our brain. So that might tempt you into saying the mind on the physicalist view is just a brain. But we probably shouldn't say that. After all, if you shoot me, there's my corpse lying on the stage. Well, there's my brain. My brain is still there in my head. But we no longer have a person. The person has died. The person, it seems, no longer exists. Whether strictly that's the best thing to say or not is a question we'll have to come to in a couple of weeks. But it seems pretty clear that the mind has been destroyed, even though the brain is still there. So I think, at least when there's the need to be careful-- maybe we don't normally have a need to be careful-- but when there's the need to be careful, we should say, talk of the mind is a way of talking about the P-functioning of the body. Our best science suggests that a well-functioning body can perform these things, can think and plan and fall in love by virtue of the fact that the brain is functioning properly. That's the physicalist view. On the dualist view, what was death? Death is presumably the separation of the mind and the body, perhaps the permanent separation, with the destruction of the body. What's death on the physicalist view? Well, there is no extra entity, the soul. The mind is just the proper P-functioning of the body. So, the mind gets destroyed when the ability of the body to function in that way has been destroyed. Death is, roughly, the end of this set of functioning. Again, this probably should be cleaned up and in a couple of weeks we'll spend a day or half period trying, to clean it up and make it somewhat more precise. But there's nothing mysterious about death from the physicalist point of view, at least about the basic idea of what's going on in death. I've got a stereo. Suppose I hold up my boom box for you and it's playing music. It's one of the things it can do. And I drop in on the ground, smashing it. Well, it no longer can function properly. It's broken. There's no mystery why it can't function once it's broken. Death is basically just the breaking down of the body, on the physicalist point of view, so that it no longer functions properly. One other point worth emphasizing and sketching the physicalist view is this. So, as I said, physicalists don't deny that there are minds. Even though we say "We're just bodies," that doesn't mean that we're just any old body. It's not as though the physicalist view is, "We're bodies that have some illusion of thinking." No, we're bodies that really do think. So there really are minds. We could, on the physicalist point of view, call those souls. Just like there's no danger in talking of the mind from the physicalist perspective there wouldn't be any serious danger in talking about a soul. And so, in certain contexts, I'm perfectly comfortable--in my physicalist moods, I am perfectly comfortable--talking about this person's soul. He's got a good soul, a bad soul, how the soul soars when I read Shakespeare, or what have you. There's nothing upsetting or improper about the language of the soul, even on the physicalist point of view. But in this class, just to try to keep us from getting confused, as I indicated before and I want to remind you, I'm going to save the word "Soul"; I'm going to at least try to save the word "Soul" for when I'm talking about the dualist view. So we might put it this way. The neutral term is going to be "Mind." We all agree that people have minds, sort of the house or the seat of our personalities. The question is, "What is a mind?" The dualist position is that the mind is a soul and the soul is an immaterial object. So when I use the word "Soul," I will try to reserve it for the metaphysical view, according to which souls are something immaterial. In contrast to that, we've got the physicalist view. Physicalists also believe in minds. But minds are just a way of talking about the abilities of the body. So physicalists do not believe in any immaterial object above and beyond the body that's part of a person. Just to keep things clear, I will say that physicalists, materialists, do not believe in souls. Because, for the purposes of this class, I'm going to reserve the word "Soul" for the immaterialist conception of the mind. In other contexts--no harm in talking about souls. So these are the two basic positions: the dualist view on the one hand, the physicalist view on the other. The question we need to turn to-- I take it that just as the dualist view is a familiar one, so it's true that the physicalist view is a familiar one. Whether or not you believe it, you are familiar with the fact that some people believe it, or at least you wonder whether it's true. Does science require that we believe in the physicalist view or not? The question we want to turn to, then, is, "Which of these two views should we believe: the dualist position or the physicalist position?" And the crucial question, presumably, is, "Should we believe in the existence of a soul?" Both sides believe in bodies. As I say, the dualist position, as we're understanding it, is not a view that says there are only minds, there are no bodies. Dualists believe that there are bodies. They believe that there are souls as well as bodies. Physicalists believe there are bodies but no souls. So there's an agreement that there are bodies. Here is one. Each one of you is sort of dragging one around with you. There's agreement that there's bodies. The question is, "Are there anything beyond bodies?" Is there anything beyond the body? Is there a soul? Are there souls? That's the question that's going to concern us for a couple of weeks. If we ask ourselves, "What reasons do we have to believe in a soul?" we might start by asking, what reasons do we have to believe in anything? How do we prove the existence of things? For lots of familiar everyday objects, the answer is fairly straightforward. We prove their existence by using our five senses. We just see them. How do I know that there are chairs? Well, there are some chairs in front of me. Open my eyes, I see them. How do I know that there is a lectern? Well, I see it. I can touch it. I feel it. How do I know that there are trees? I see them. How do I know that there are birds? I see them. I hear them. How do I know that there are apples? I see them. I taste them. So forth and so on. That approach pretty clearly isn't going to work for souls, because a soul--and again, we've got in mind this metaphysical view, according to which it's something immaterial-- isn't something we see. It's not something we taste or touch or smell or hear. We don't directly observe souls with our five senses. You might wonder, well, don't I sort of directly observe it in myself that I have a soul? Although I guess there have been people who've made that sort of claim, it seems false to me. I can only ask each of you to sort of introspect for a second. Turn your mind's eye inward and ask. Do you see a soul inside you? I don't think so. I see things outside me. I feel certain sensations in my body, but it doesn't seem as though I observe a soul. Even if I believe in a soul, I don't see it. How do we prove the existence of things we can't see or hear or taste and so forth? The usual method, maybe not the only method, but the usual method is something like this. Sometimes, we posit the existence of something that we can't see so as to explain something else that we all agree takes place. Why do I believe in the existence of atoms? I don't see individual atoms. Why do I believe in the existence of atoms so small that I can't see them? Because atomic theory explains things. When I posit the existence of atoms with certain structures and certain sort of ways of interacting and combining and building up, when I posit atoms, suddenly I can explain all sorts of things about the physical world. So, I infer the existence of atoms based on the fact that doing that allows me to explain things that need explaining. This is a kind of argument that we use all the time. How do I posit-- why do I believe in x-rays, even though I don't see them? Because doing that allows me to explain certain things. Why do I believe in certain planets too far away to be observed directly through a telescope? Because positing them allows you explain things about the rotation of the star or the gravitational fluctuations, what have you. We make inferences to the existence of things we can't see, when doing that helps us to explain something we can't otherwise explain. This pattern of argument, which is ubiquitous, is called "Inference to the best explanation." I want to emphasize this bit about "Best explanation." What we're justified in believing are those things that we need, not simply when they would offer us some kind of explanation, but when they offer us the best explanation that we can think of. So look, why am I justified in believing in germs, various kinds of viruses that I can't see, or bacteria or what have you, that I can't see? Because doing that allows me to explain why people get sick. But there's other things that would allow me to explain that as well. How about demons? I could believe in demons and say, "Why does a person get sick and die? Well, it is demonic possession." Why aren't I justified in believing in the existence of demons? It's a possible explanation. But what we seem to be justified in believing is not just any old explanation, but the "Best explanation." So we've got two rival explanations. We've got, roughly, germ theory and we've got demon theory. We have to ask ourselves, "Which of these does a better job of explaining the facts about disease?" Who gets what kinds of diseases? How diseases spread, how they can be treated or cured, when they kill somebody. The fact of the matter is, demon theory doesn't do a very good job of explaining disease, while germ theory does do a good job. It's the better explanation. So we're justified in believing in germs, but not demons. It's a matter of inference, not just to any old explanation, but inference to the best explanation. All right, so, what we need to ask ourselves, then, is, "What about the soul?" We can't observe souls. But here's a possible way of arguing for them. Are there things that need to be explained that we could explain if we posited the existence of a soul, an immaterial object, above and beyond the body? Are there things that the existence of a soul could explain and explain better than the explanation that we would have if we had to limit ourselves to bodies? You might put it this way as sort of the easiest version of this kind of argument, for our purposes. Are there things about us that the physicalist cannot explain? Are there mysteries or puzzles about people that the physicalist just draws a blank, but if we become dualists, we can explain these features? Suppose there was a feature like that, feature F. Then we'd say, "Look, although we can't see the soul, we have reason to believe in the soul, because positing the existence of a soul helps us to explain the existence of feature F, which we all agree we've got." Suppose it was true that you couldn't explain love from the physicalist perspective. But we all know that people do fall in love, but souls would allow us to explain that. Boom, we'd have an argument for the existence of a soul. It would be an example of "Inference to the best explanation." Now, the crucial question, of course, is, "What's the relevant feature F?" Is there some feature that the physicalist can't explain and so we need to appeal to something extra-physical to explain it? Or the physicalist can only do a rotten job of explaining, like demon theory did? And then, if we were to appeal to something nonphysical, we would do a better job of explaining. If we could find the right F, and make out the argument, the physicalist can't explain it or does a bad job of explaining it and the dualist does a better job of explaining it, we'd have reason to believe in the soul. Like all arguments in philosophy, it would be a tentative argument. We'd sort of have some reason to believe in the soul until we sort of see what next argument comes down the road. But at least it would give us some reason to believe in the soul. What I want to do is ask, "What might feature F be?" Is there any such feature F? It's probably also worth underlining the fact that what I've really been doing is running through a series of arguments. "Inference to the best explanation" is not a single argument for the soul. It's rather the name for a kind of argument. Depending on what F you fill in the blank with, what pet feature or fact you're trying to explain by appeal to the soul, you get a different argument. So let's ask ourselves, "Are there things that we need to appeal to the soul in order to explain these things about us?" Here's a first try. Actually, let me start by saying I'm going to distinguish two broad families of characteristics we might appeal to. We might say, one set of approaches focus on ordinary, familiar, everyday facts about us. The fact that we love, the fact that we think, the fact that we experience emotions, what have you--these are ordinary features of us. I'm going to start with those and then I'll turn, eventually, to another set of possible things that might need explaining, which we might think of as extraordinary, supernatural things. Maybe there are certain supernatural things about communication from the dead or near-death experiences that need to be explained in terms of the soul. We'll get to those, but we'll start with ordinary, everyday, hum-drum facts about us. Even though they're ordinary and familiar, it still could turn out that we need to appeal to souls in order to explain them. So, to start, how about this? Start with a familiar fact, which I've already drawn your attention to a couple of times, that you can have a body that's dead. You could have a corpse, and that's clearly not a person. It's not a living being. It's not a person. It doesn't do anything. It just lies there; whereas your body, my body is animated. I move my hands around, my mouth is going up and down, it walks from one part of the stage to the other part of the stage. Maybe we need to appeal to the soul in order to explain what animates the body. The thought would be, when the soul and the body have been separated-- such the dualist explains-- the soul has lost its ability to give commands to the body. So the body is no longer animated. So we've got a possible explanation of the difference between an animated and an unanimated or an inanimate body to it. Is the soul in contact of the right sort with the body? There's a possible explanation. You might say, "Look, the physicalist can't tell us that, because all the physical parts are still there when you've got the corpse, at least if it's a fresh corpse before the decay has set in. So, we need to appeal to the existence of a soul in order to explain the animation of bodies Well, I said I was going to run through a series of arguments but that doesn't mean that-- the lights have just turned off; I don't know why-- that doesn't mean that I think the arguments will all work. I announced on the first day of class that I don't, myself, believe in the existence of a soul. As such, it shouldn't be any surprise to you that what I'm going to do as we run through each of these arguments is to say, "I'm not convinced by it and here's why." Now since I think that the arguments I'm about to sketch-- and I've just started sketching the first of is fails I hope you'll think it over and you'll eventually come to agree with me, yeah, these arguments don't really work after all. But what's more important to me is that you at least think about each of these arguments. Is this a convincing argument for the existence of a soul? If you think so, what response do you want to offer to the objections that I'm giving? If this argument doesn't work, is there another argument for the existence of a soul that you think is a better one? First argument, you need the soul in order to explain the animation of the body. From the physicalist point of view, of course, the answer is going to be "Too quick." To have an animated body, you need to have a functioning body. It's true that when you've got a corpse, you've got all the parts there, but clearly they're not functioning properly. But all that shows us is, the parts have broken. Remember my stereo? I dropped my stereo. It falls on the stage. It doesn't work anymore. It stops giving off music. My boombox stops giving off music. That's not because previously--we had a CD inside of it, we had some batteries. We dropped the whole thing. It's not as though previously there was something nonmaterial there. We've got all the same parts there, but the parts are now broken. They're not connected to each other in the right way. The energy is not flowing from the batteries through the wires to the CD component. There's nothing mysterious from the physicalist perspective about the idea that a physical object can break. Although we need to offer a story about what makes the parts work when they're connected with each other and interacting in the right way, there's no need to appeal to anything beyond the physical. Suppose we try to refine the argument. Suppose we say, "You need to appeal to the soul in order to explain not just that the body moves around, flails, but the body acts purposefully." We need something to be pulling the strings, to be directing the body. That's what the soul does, so says the dualist. In response, the physicalist is going to say, "Yes it's true that bodies don't just move around in random patterns." Human bodies don't do that. So we need something to direct it, but why couldn't that just be, one particular part of the body plays the part of the command module? Suppose I've got a heat-seeking missile which tracks down the plane. As the plane tries to dodge it, the missile corrects its course. It's not just moving randomly, it's moving purposefully. There had better be something that explains, that's controlling, the motions of the missile. But for all that, it could just be a particular piece of the missile that does it. More gloriously, we could imagine building some kind of a robot that does a variety of tasks. It's not moving randomly, but the tasks are all controlled by the CPU within the robot. The physicalist says we don't need to appeal to anything as extravagant as a soul in order to explain the fact that bodies don't just move randomly, but they move in purposeful ways that are controlled. For each objection, there's a response. You could imagine the dualist coming back and saying, "Look, in the case of the heat-seeking missile or the robot for that matter, although it's doing things, it's just obeying orders. And the orders were given to it from something outside itself." Something programmed the robot or the missile. So don't we need there to be something outside the body that programs the body? That could be the soul. That's a harder question. Must there be something outside the body that controls the body? One possibility, of course, is, why not say that people are just robots as well and we get our commands from outside? On a familiar religious view, God built Adam out of dirt, out of dust. Adam is just a certain kind of robot then. God breathes into Adam. That's sort of turning it on. Maybe people are just robots commanded from outside by God. But that doesn't mean that there's anything more to us than there is to the robot. That's one possible response. A different response, of course, is why couldn't we have robots that just build more robots? Then, if you ask, "Where did the commands come from?" the answer is, "When they were built, they were built in such a way as to have certain instructions that they begin to follow out." Just like people have a genetic code, perhaps, that gives us various instructions that we begin to follow out, or certain innate psychology or what have you. The argument quickly becomes very, very messy. The fan of the soul begins to want to protest, "Look, we're not just robots. We're not just robots with some sort of program in our brain that we're following. We've got free will. Robots can't have free will. So there's got to be something more to us than robots. We can't just be physical things." This is an interesting argument, and I think it's a new argument. We started with the idea you needed to appeal to souls in order to roughly explain why human bodies move, why we're animated or why we move in nonrandom ways. I think it's fairly clear that you don't need to appeal to souls in order to do that. Appeal to a physical body suffices, I think, to have an explanation as to the difference between an animated and an inanimate body, how bodies will move in nonrandom ways. If the brain is our CPU, then we'll behave in deliberate, purposeful ways just like a robot will behave in deliberate, purposeful ways. So this initial argument, I think, is not compelling. Still, we might wonder, what about this new argument? What about the fact that-- We said there's a family of arguments, all of which have the general structure, inference to the best explanation, you need souls in order to explain feature F. Plug in a different feature F and you get a new argument. The one we started with-- you need the soul to explain the animation of the body-- that argument, I think, doesn't work. Now we've got a new one. You need the soul in order to explain free will. Let me come back to that argument later. It's a good argument. It's an argument well worth taking seriously, but let's come back to it later. First, let's run through some other things that might be appealed to as candidates for feature F. Suppose somebody says, "Look, it's true that we don't need to appeal to souls in order to explain why bodies move around in a nonrandom fashion. But people have a very special ability"-- and so the argument goes-- "That mere bodies couldn't have, physicalists can't explain. That's the ability to think. It's the ability to reason. People have beliefs and desires. And based on their beliefs about how to fulfill their desires, they make plans. They have strategies. They reason about what to do. This tightly connected set of facts about us-- beliefs, desires, reasoning, strategizing, planning-- you need to appeal to a soul"-- so the argument goes--; "You need to appeal to a soul to explain that. No mere machine could believe. No mere machine has desires. No mere machine could reason." It's easy to see why you might think that sort of thing when you stick to simple machines. It's pretty clear that there are lots of machines that it doesn't seem natural to ascribe beliefs or desires or goals or reasoning to. My lawnmower, for example, doesn't want to cut the grass. Even though it does cut the grass, it doesn't have the desire. It doesn't think to itself, "How shall I get that blade of grass that's been eluding me?" So it's easy to see why we might be tempted to say no mere machine could think or reason or have beliefs or desires. That argument's much less compelling nowadays than I think it would have been 20 or 40 years ago. In an era of computers with quite sophisticated computer programs, it seems, at the very least, natural to talk about beliefs, desires, and reasoning and strategizing. So suppose, for example, we've got a chess-playing computer. On my computer at home I've got a program that allows my computer to play chess. I, myself, stink at chess. This program can beat me blind. I move my bishop, the computer moves its queen. What do we say about the computer? Why did the computer move its queen, or virtual queen? Why did the computer move its queen? The natural thing to say is, it's worried about the fact that the king is exposed and it's trying to block me by capturing my bishop. That is what we say about computer-playing programs. Think about what we're doing. We're ascribing desires to the program. We're saying it's got an ultimate desire to win the game. A certain subsidiary desire is to protect its king, to capture my king. A certain other subsidiary desire is, no doubt, to protect its various other pieces along the way. It's got beliefs about how to do that by blocking certain paths or by making other pieces on my side vulnerable. It's got beliefs about how to achieve its goals. Then, it puts those combinations of beliefs and desires into action by moving in a way that's a rational response to my move. It looks as though the natural thing to say about the chess-playing computer is, it does have beliefs. It does have desires. It does have intentions. It does have goals. It does reason. It does all of this. It's rational to this limited extent. It's only able to play chess. But to that extent, it's doing all these things and yet we're not tempted to say, are we, that the computer has a nonphysical part? We can explain how the computer does all of this in strictly physical terms. Of course, once you start thinking of it this way, it's natural to talk this way across a variety of things that the computer may be trying to do. It's perfectly open to you, as dualists, to respond by saying, "Although we personify the computer, we treat it as though it was a person, as though it had beliefs and desires and so forth, it doesn't really have the relevant beliefs and desires, because it doesn't have any beliefs and desires, because no physical object could have beliefs and desires." In response to that, I just want to say, "Isn't that just prejudice?" Of course, it is true that if we simply insist no physical object could really have beliefs or desires, then it will follow that when we are tempted to ascribe beliefs and desires to my chess-playing computer, we're falling into an illusion. That will follow once we assume that no physical object has beliefs or desires. But what reason is there for saying it has no beliefs or desires? What grounds are there for withholding ascriptions of beliefs and desires to the computer? That's far from obvious. Here's a possibility. Desires, at the very least, seem to be, at least in typical cases, very closely tied to a series of emotions. You get excited when you're playing chess at the prospect of capturing my queen and crushing me. You get worried when your pieces are threatened. Of course, more generally, you get excited, your heart goes pitter-pat, when your girlfriend or boyfriend says they love you. Your stomach sinks, you have that sinking feeling in the pit of your stomach, when you get a bad grade on a test. Maybe what's really going on is the thought that there's an aspect of desire that has a purely behavioral side, that's moving pieces around in a way that would make sense if you had this goal. And maybe machines can do that. But there's an aspect of desires, the emotional side, that machines can't have, but we clearly do have. Maybe we want to build that emotional side into talk of desires. So maybe if we want to say machines don't have a mental life and couldn't have a mental life, what we really mean is no machine could feel anything emotionally. So let's distinguish. Let's say there's a way of talking about beliefs and desires which is just going to be captured in terms of responding in a way that makes sense given the environment. Maybe computers and robots could do that. But there's clearly a side of our mental life, the emotional side, where we might really worry, could a robot feel love? Could it be afraid of anything? Again, our question was, "Do we need to appeal to souls to explain something about us?" The physicalist says "No"; the dualist says "Yes." If what we mean is the mental, but that the aspect, the behavioral aspect of the mental, where even a chess-playing computer probably has it, then that's not a very compelling argument. The physicalist will say, "Look, that aspect of the mental is pretty clear. We can explain it in physical terms." But let's just switch the argument. What about emotions? Can a robot feel emotions? Could a purely physical being fall in love? Could it be afraid of things? Could it hope for something? The latest version of our argument then is, "People can feel emotions. But if you think about it, it's pretty clear no robot could feel emotions. No merely physical thing could feel emotions. So there must be more to us than a merely physical thing." That's the argument we'll start with next time. 



 Chapter 3: 柏拉图对话录《斐多篇》介绍（一），灵魂存在与否的论证（二）


We've been talking about the question, What arguments might be offered for the existence of a soul? And the family of arguments that we're considering initially are arguments that get known as inference or inferences to the best explanation. The thought is that there's something about us that needs explaining. We can't explain it in terms of, in purely physical terms. And so we need to appeal to, we need to posit, the existence of, a soul. Now, I'll come back to that sort of argument in just a minute, but let me bracket that for a moment and say something about Plato. Starting next week, we're going to be looking at Plato's dialogue, the Phaedo. And so although I'll be saying a great deal about the Phaedo once we turn to it, I want to just take a minute or two and say a couple of introductory remarks. I don't know how many of you have not read any Plato before, but for those of you who haven't, I actually think you're in for a treat. Plato is not only one of the greatest philosophers in history, he wrote his philosophy in the form of dialogues. That is to say, plays, in which various characters sit around or stand around and argue about philosophical positions. The particular dialogue that we're going to reading,the Phaedo, is set at the death scene of Socrates. As I'm sure you know, Socrates was put on trial, condemned to death for corrupting the youth of Athens-- and perhaps, among other things, for arguing philosophy with them. And he's given hemlock, poison, and he drinks it and he dies. Now, this is a historical event. Socrates had a circle of friends and disciples that he would argue philosophy with. One of his disciples was Plato. Plato then grew up and wrote philosophical works. Plato does not typically appear in his own dialogues. Or, if he does, he's only there as a minor character. In fact, if I recall correctly, Plato's mentioned as not being there on the day that Socrates dies. So, how do we know, if we've got this play, whose position is Plato's position? And the answer--the short answer--is, Socrates, the character Socrates in the play, represents Plato, the author of the play's, philosophical views. Now, in fact, if this were a class in ancient philosophy, we'd have to complicate that picture, because it's fairly clear that by late in Plato's career Plato has philosophical views that are very much unlike the views of his teacher, Socrates. And yet Plato continues to not appear in the dialogue. Socrates continues to be sort of the hero. And so scholars debate which of the views put forward by Socrates in which ones of the dialogues represent views that belong to the actual historical figure Socrates, and which of the views put forward by the character Socrates in which of the dialogues represent views that are actually not held by the historical Socrates, but were instead held by the historical Plato and were merely put in the mouth of the character Socrates. Scholars distinguish between the early Platonic dialogues, the so-called Socratic dialogues, where the thought is, those are the views of Socrates, the actual historical figure. And then there's the late dialogues, where even though Socrates appears, most scholars believe those are probably not the views that the historical Socrates actually believed. You have middle dialogues where you have to worry about whose views are whose. But we're not going to worry. This is not a class in ancient philosophy. So for our purposes, we don't have to ask ourselves when Socrates in the dialogue says something, is this a view that the dead man Socrates actually would have held or is this simply a view that the dead man Plato put in the mouth of the character Socrates? For our purposes, it won't really matter. I'll take every view that Socrates puts forward as a view of Plato's, though I'll typically sort of run back and forth sort of in a careless fashion. I'll say, "Plato holds" Or "Socrates argues," because for our purposes it's all the same. But there's one other complication that you've got to be warned about, which is this. Because these are dialogues and they take the form of philosophical arguments, people put forward views and then, over the course of the discussion, change their minds about things. And they take them back. And maybe something similar is going on when Socrates says something. Because, after all, this isn't Plato saying, "Here's what I believe explicitly." He's just writing a dramatic play about philosophy. And so sometimes we'll find ourselves thinking, "You know, there's an argument here that Socrates is putting forward. But maybe it's not a very good argument." And it will, at least, be worth pausing periodically to ask ourselves, maybe Plato realized it wasn't a very good argument. We can often better understand the dialogues by seeing Socrates as putting forward certain positions that he does not think are altogether adequate. And he modifies them or revises them or introduces new positions to deal with some of the difficulties that he was setting himself to be open to earlier. As I say, don't worry about any of those details now, but it's a point to keep in mind as you read the dialogues. So that's all I really wanted to say by way of introduction. You should start reading the Phaedo for next week. We'll be talking about the Phaedo starting some time next week and we'll continue the discussion of the Phaedo for at least a bit of, maybe all of, the week after that. In the case of Plato, I'm going to make an exception. Normally, I will mention our readings, but I won't spend a lot of time actually discussing them in detail. That's why you have to think of the readings as complementing the lectures or think of the lectures as complementing the readings. I'm not just giving the Cliff Notes, as it were, of the readings. Nonetheless, in the case of the Phaedo, I am going to spend more time actually saying, "Here's what I think the first main argument is. Let's try to reconstruct it in terms of its premises and its conclusions. Here are some objections I raise. Here is then the next argument that Plato offers. Let's try to get that up in premises." Even there, I won't be spending time reading out loud long passages from the Phaedo. But, in some sense, I'll be giving a closer commentary of the Phaedo than I'll do for the other readings. So, still, what you should do is start reading it for next week. The topic of the Phaedo, as I say, is set on Socrates' last day. At the end of the dialogue, he drinks the hemlock and he dies. And perhaps unsurprisingly, what he does with his friends up until that moment is, he argues about the immortality of the soul. Quite strikingly, Socrates is not upset. He's not worried about the fact that he's going to die. He actually welcomes this in a certain way, because he believes his soul is immortal. And so, in addition to philosophical arguments for and against the existence and immortality of the soul, we end the dialogue with a quite moving death scene, one of the great death scenes, if we could call it that, of western civilization. Anyway, as I say, that's all for next week. So let's return now to the question, "How might we argue for the existence of the soul?" Initially, last time, we considered a set of or a subset of arguments that basically said, "Look, there's got to be more to us than just material objects. People can't just be machines, because machines can't reason. Machines can't think." And I said, "That doesn't seem to be a compelling argument." After all, chess-playing computers, it seems, can reason. They have beliefs about what I'm likely to do next. They have desires about the goals that they're trying to achieve. They reason about how best to defeat me. And it's worth pointing out that-- a point that I didn't make last time-- it's worth pointing out that, what the computers, at least the best chess-playing computers don't do. Indeed, no computer actually does this. You might think that what a computer, what a chess-playing computer does is just this: it calculates every possible branch, every possible game from here on out. And then it sort of works backwards. "Oh, these are the ones where I'll win." And so it only makes the move where it can sort of look ahead 20 moves, right, and see which branches have the computer winning. That is not the way chess-playing programs work. For the simple reason that the number of possible chess games is so huge, that computers can't calculate it. They'd be busy for thousands of years. We can do that sort of: When you play tic-tac-toe with your seven-year old nephew or niece, you just look ahead and work backwards. "Well, if I do that, he'll do that and he'll do that and then he wins, so I won't do that," right? But we can't do that with chess. There's just too many games. So how do chess-playing programs, and particularly the best chess-playing programs, how do they work? Well, they play chess the same way you do. They have various ideas about which pieces are more powerful and so they're more important to protect. They've got various ideas about which strategies tend to be successful. What sorts of dangers come along with them? If you're a serious chess player, you might study some of the great games of chess history. And indeed, when they program these things, the programmers will feed in game after game after game of the great chess games in history. And then armed with all of that, you sort of do your best. And when you lose a game, you kind of make a mental note to yourself, "That really screwed me up. Let me try something different next time." And you avoid those sorts of moves. That's how chess-playing programs work as well. Jumping ahead, let me make a remark about this, because this is going to be relevant for something I'll get to in a couple of minutes. What this means--what this, the implication--is that if you're playing a great chess-playing program, it's not as though the way to tell what it's going to do is to study its program and think it through. The people who design these programs, presumably fairly decent chess players themselves, the people who design these programs, when they're playing the programs they're not thinking to themselves, "Let's see. I programmed this computer so that when I move a queen forward to this space, it should come out with a bishop." That's hopeless. Because the program is constantly revising its strategies, in light of what's worked and what hasn't worked in the past. When the programmers play these programs or indeed when anybody, a good chess player, plays these programs, the best way to try to beat them is simply ask yourself, "What's the best move to make right now?" The odds are the computer's going to make the best possible move. Treat the computer as though it were just a great chess player. And indeed, the best programs are great chess players. There was a period of time in which, although there were decent, chess-playing programs couldn't beat the best chess-playing humans. That ended some years ago when the best programs began to beat grand masters. And now it's in fact the case that the best programs can beat pretty much anybody. In the current world champion of chess, I think Vladimir Kramnik, was defeated in December by a chess-playing program. So Kramnik's simply treating this as an awesome opponent. And that's the best way to deal with these things. All right. So, bracket some of those thoughts for a moment. We'll come back to them a little bit later when we start talking about the question, "Could machines be creative?" Tipping my hand, it seems pretty clear that that seems like the right thing to say about these chess-playing programs. So we had the question, "Could machines, could machines reason?" And although we don't have machines that can reason about a lot of subjects yet, it seems pretty clear. It seems like the natural thing to suggest, machines can reason in at least some areas. And so it doesn't seem plausible to suggest that we people must not be physical, merely physical, because after all, we can reason and no machine can reason. No, machines could reason. But this prompts a different move on the part of the defender of souls. Perhaps the argument shouldn't be, "We have to believe in souls because no mere physical object could reason." Perhaps the argument should be, "We have to believe in souls because no mere physical object, no machine could feel." You know, we have emotions. We love. We're afraid. We're worried. We'll get elated. We get depressed. So perhaps the argument should go "Yeah, yeah, thinking, that's the sort of thing a machine can do. You know, we call them thinking machines. But feeling, that's the sort of thing no machine could do. No purely physical object could feel anything, could have emotions. And so, since we clearly do feel things, there must be more to us than a physical object." Now, I think it is plausible to suggest that unlike the case of chess-playing computers, we don't yet have machines that feel things. But the question isn't, "Do we?" The question is, "Could there be a machine that could feel something, could have an emotion of some sort?" So let's go a little science fictiony and think about some of the robots that have been shown in science fiction movies, some of the computer programs that have been shown in science fiction movies, science fiction novels, or what have you. When I was a kid there was a television show called Lost in Space. I'm afraid I've forgotten the name of the robot that was on that show. But as it was a TV show and so sure enough, every single episode, some new dramatic danger would take place. And the robot would start whizzing and binging and shout out, "Danger, Commander Robinson!" "Danger, Will Robinson!" That was it. "Danger, Will Robinson!" It seemed as though the robot was worried. More recent example. A number of you have probably read some of Douglas Adams' books. The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and the sequels to that. There's a robot in those books, Marvin, who's --depressed, I think is the simple word about it. He sort of--He is very smart. He's thought about the universe, thinks life is pointless and he acts depressed. He talks to another robot, depresses the other robot. The other robot commits suicide. All right. Seems natural to ascribe depression to Marvin, the robot. That's how he behaves. Or, my favorite example, the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey. Now, I've got to tell you, for those of you who have not seen this movie, I'm about to spoil it. All right? So you cover your ears. In 2001:A Space Odyssey, we get some kind of indication that there's life on another planet. It's all very mysterious and we send off a spaceship to investigate the markings, the radio signals from the other place. This is a very important mission and so there is a computer program named Hal that helps run the ship and takes a lot of the burdens off of the part of the human astronauts who are on the ship. Hal's got the goal-- in terms of reasoning and desires and so forth and so on-- Hal's got the goal of making sure the mission is successful. But Hal thinks to himself fairly plausibly, humans really screw things up. This is a very important mission. Let's kill the humans to make sure they don't screw things up. One of the astronauts, discovering the plot, attempts to stop Hal. And proceeds to do the only thing he can do to defend himself against Hal, which is shut down the program, basically killing-- if we can talk that way--killing Hal. Meanwhile, as all this is going on, Hal and Dave, the human astronaut, are talking to each other. Hal realizes what's going on. Hal tries to stop Dave, understandably enough. And Hal says, as Dave begins to shut down Hal's circuits, "I'm afraid. I'm afraid, Dave." What's he afraid of? He's afraid of dying. It seems perfectly natural to ascribe fear to Hal. Hal is behaving in exactly the way you would expect him to behave, or it to behave, if it felt fear. It's got reason to be afraid. It's behaving appropriately. It's telling us that it's afraid. It seems natural to say Hal's afraid. Now, you could continue to sort of fill in examples like this. As I say, of course, they're all science fiction, but the fact that we can grasp-- and it's not as though we go running away saying, "Oh no! This was outrageous," Right? "It makes no sense to think a computer could have said, I'm afraid. "It makes no sense to think that it could try to kill the people who are trying to shut it down and so forth." That seems to me to be prejudice, as I said last time. The natural inclination here is to say, "These computer programs, these robots are feeling emotion." But there's no particular reason to think there's anything going on there than the circuits. They're just physical objects, programs on machines. If that's right, if that's the right thing to say, then what we have to say is, "We don't need to appeal to souls in order to explain emotions and feelings. Physical objects could have, mere physical objects could have, emotions and feelings. So we have no reason to posit the existence of a soul." Now, I think the best response on the part of the dualist to this reply is to distinguish two aspects of feelings, two aspects of emotions. There's the behavioral aspect of feeling fear, let's say. The behavioral aspect is when you're aware in the environment of something that poses a danger to you, that will harm you or destroy you, or in the case of a computer program, turn you off, then you take various kinds of behaviors in opposition to that to try to disarm the danger, to try to neutralize it. This is just a matter of beliefs, goals, responses, planning, the sort of thing that we already saw the chess-playing computer can do, that behavioral side of emotion. It seems pretty plausible to think robots could do that. Physical objects could do that. But, and here's the crucial point of this objection, there's another side or another aspect to emotions and feelings. It's the sensation of what it's feeling like-- that's why we call them feelings after all-- what it's feeling like on the inside,as it were, while all this behavioral stuff's going on. When I'm afraid, I have this certain sort of clammy feeling or my heart's going poundingly. Your blood is racing. When you're afraid, you've got this sinking feeling in the stomach. When you're depressed, there are these, well, we could call them experiences, though the word "experience" is also somewhat ambiguous. So--we'll use it for the moment-- there's an experience that goes along with each emotion. There's what it feels like to you when you're afraid. What it feels like to you when you're worried or depressed or joyful or in love. And the thought, and I think this is a pretty powerful thought, is that even if the robots are behaving behaviorally, they've got the behavior side of the emotions down, they don't have the feeling side at all. Now, once you start thinking these thoughts, there's no need to restrict yourself to emotions. The missing stuff,the missing thing is there in all sorts of familiar humdrum ways as well. So right now I'm looking at the chairs in the auditorium. They're some kind of shade of blue. Think about--Look at some places in the room where the curtains with their red. Think about what it's like to see red, the sensation of seeing red. Now again, we've got to distinguish between what I'll continue to call the behavioral side of seeing red and the experiential side of seeing red. It's easy enough for us to build a machine that can tell red from blue. It just checks and sees what kind of light frequencies are bouncing off the object. So we can build a machine that could sort red balls from blue balls. My son has a little robot that can do that. Still, when you think to yourself, what's the--what's going on inside the machine? What does it feel like to be the machine while it's looking at-- while it's got its little light sensors pointed at--the red ball? Does it have the sensation of seeing red? What I suppose you want to say, certainly what I want to say is, "No, no, it doesn't have that sensation at all." It's sorting things based on the light frequencies, but it doesn't have the experience of seeing red. What we're trying to get at here is--it can be very elusive, but I imagine most of you are familiar with it. It's the sort of thing you wonder about when you ask yourself, "If somebody was born blind, could he possibly know what it's like to see color?" He might be a scientist and know all sorts of things about how light works. You use such and such frequencies, and which objects, and you hand him an apple and he'll say, "Oh, it must be very red," Right? Maybe he points his little light detector at it and it reads out. It says, "This is such and such a frequency." And he says, "Oh, this is a very red apple, much redder than that tomato" Or whatever. But for all that, we've got the notion, not only is he not seeing red, he can't even imagine what it's like to see red, never having had these experiences. And once you start to see this, we realize, of course, our life is filled with this aspect. Things have colors. Things have sounds. Things have smells. There is the qualitative aspect of experience. And the point that I started with earlier, about the internal aspect of emotions, is it's not just out there, but inside as well. We have certain kinds of sensations inside our body, the characteristic sensation of fear or joy or depression. All right. So the suggestion then might be this. What no physical object can get right, because no physical object can get at all, is the qualitative aspect of experience. That's the aspect that we're after when we ask ourselves, "What's it like to see red? What's it like to smell coffee or to taste pineapple?" Now, it's pretty--Philosophers sometimes call these things qualia, because of the notion of the qualitative aspects of things. Our experiences have qualitative properties. And the suggestion then might be, no physical object, no mere machine could possibly have qualitative experience. But we've got it, so we're no mere physical object. We're no mere machine. All right. Now, that's the objection. It's a pretty good objection. And then the question is, "What can the physicalist say in response?" Now, the best possible response would be for the physicalist to say, "Here's how to build a machine that can be conscious in this sense. That is, have a qualitative experience. Here's how to do it. Here's how to-- Just like we can explain in materialist, physicalist terms how to get desires and beliefs and the behavioral stuff down, here's how to get the feeling, qualitative aspect of things down, too." It would be best if the physicalist could give us that kind of story. I think the truth of the matter has to be-- I think the answer right now is, we don't know how to give that story. Consciousness, if what we mean by consciousness is this qualitative aspect of our mental life, consciousness remains a pretty big mystery. We don't know how to explain it in physicalist terms. And it's because of that that I think we shouldn't be dismissive of the dualist when the dualist says, "We've got to believe in souls in order to explain it." We shouldn't be dismissive, but that's not to say that I think we should be convinced. Because it's one thing to say we don't yet know how to explain consciousness in physical terms. It's another thing to say we won't ever be able to explain consciousness in physical terms. If we had the latter--excuse me-- If we had the bold claim that no physical object could see red, taste honey, then we'd have to conclude since we can do all that, we're not a physical object or not merely a physical object. But I don't think we're yet in a position to say that. I think the simple fact of the matter is we don't know enough about consciousness yet to know whether or not it can be explained in physical terms. When I think about this situation, an analogy always occurs to me. Imagine that we're somewhere in, let's say, the fourteenth century trying to understand life, the life of plants. A plant is a living thing. And we ask ourselves, "Could it possibly be that life could be explained in material terms?" It's got to seem very mysterious to us. How could it be? When we think of the kinds of examples of material machines that we've got available to us in the fourteenth century, I try to imagine what would somebody in the fourteenth century think to himself or herself when he entertains the possibility that a plant might just be a machine? And then, I have this little image of some plant made out of gears, right? And the gears begin turning and the bud opens, dot, dot, dot, dot. And the person's just going to say, "My god! That wouldn't be alive!" So it's pretty obvious that no machine could be alive. No material object could be alive. In order to explain life, we have to appeal to something more than just atoms. They didn't have atoms, but more than just matter. Life requires something immaterial above and beyond matter to explain it. That would have been an understandable position to come to in the fourteenth century, but it would have been wrong. We didn't have a clue back then how to explain life in material terms. But that didn't mean it couldn't be done. I'm inclined to think the same thing is true right now for us and consciousness. I know there are theories out there. But my best take is we're pretty much like in the fourteenth century. We don't really have a clue yet, or not much of a clue, as to how you could even so much as begin to-- it's not that merely that we don't have the details worked out. We don't even have the picture in broad strokes as far as consciousness is concerned, of how it could be done in physical terms. But not seeing how it's possible is not the same thing as seeing that it's impossible. If the dualist comes and says, "Can't you just see that it's not remotely possible, it's not conceivably possible, for a purely physical object to have experiences, to have qualia?" What I want to say is, "No, I don't see that it's impossible. I admit I don't see how to do it, but I don't see that it's impossible." So I don't feel forced to posit the existence of a soul. Of course, the fan of the soul could come back and say, "But that's not fair. The question isn't, is this explanation impossible?' The question is just, who's got the better explanation?' You guys can't offer any kind of explanation at all, yet. I can offer an explanation. How is consciousness possible? We have souls. Souls are really very different from physical objects and so they can be conscious." But at this point, I think it's crucial to remember the point that it's not just the question, "Who's got an explanation?" but, "Who's got the better explanation?" And before we say that the soul view's got the better explanation, we have to ask ourselves, just how much of an explanation is it to say, "Oh I can explain consciousness. Consciousness is housed not in the body, but in the soul." Okay. "How exactly is it that a soul can be conscious?" We ask. And then the soul theorist says, "Well, uhm.. er.. ah.. it just can." That's not really much of an explanation. I don't feel I've got any sort of account going here as to how consciousness works, even if I become a dualist. If the dualist were to start offering us some elaborate theory of consciousness, "Well, there's these sorts of soul structures, and those sorts of soul structures, and these create these sensations and those create those sensations. And here's a theory," well, then, I'll begin to take it seriously as an explanation. But if all the soul theorist is just saying is "Nah, nah. You guys can't explain it and I can, because I say this is an explanation." Then, I find myself wanting to say, "That's not really any better. That's no improvement at all." There is a question or a comment. Good. So the question was-- First, it was the accusation before the question, that I'm holding a sort of double standard. I'm defending, I'm defending the physicalist by saying, "Don't blame us. We don't know how to explain it yet." Why aren't I allowing the soul theory to say, "Don't blame us. We don't know how to explain it yet." Good question. And my answer is-- And sometimes I think this one's a tie. I think the soul theorist doesn't have an explanation. The physical theorist doesn't have an explanation. As far as I can see, right now nobody's got a good explanation about how consciousness works. It's a bit of a mystery right now. So I don't mean--I hope I haven't been doing this. It's not so much a double standard is needed; it's a tie. But notice if it's a tie, that doesn't give us what we were looking for. What we were looking for, after all, was some reason to believe in souls. And if the best the soul theorist can say is, "I can't explain it and neither can you," that's not a reason to believe this side. We already believe there are bodies. We already know bodies can do some pretty amazing things. The question we're asking is, "Is there a good reason to add to our list of things there are? Is there a good reason to add the soul, something immaterial?" And if the best that the soul theorist has is, "Maybe we need this to explain something that I don't see how you guys can explain, maybe this would help, though I can't quite see how either," that's not a very compelling argument. So what I'm inclined to think with regard to this particular strand or this particular version of the argument is, the jury's still out. Maybe at the end of the day we'll give it our best. We'll decide you can't explain consciousness in physical terms. We'll begin to work out some sort of alternative immaterial theory. Maybe at the end of the day we will decide we need to believe in souls. But right now, I don't think the evidence supports that conclusion. Still, there's other possibilities. Consider creativity. Here's another version of an argument that goes from inference to the best explanation. Creativity. It says, "People can be creative." We write new pieces of music. We write poems. We prove things in mathematics that have never been proven before or we find new ways to prove these theorems or what have you and we can be creative. No mere machine can be creative. So we must be something more than a mere machine. Well, then, the question is going to be, "Could it be a case that there could be a physical object that's creative?" And I'm inclined to think, "Yes." In fact, I already suggested as much when I talked about the chess-playing computers. The chess-playing computer programs think of moves, think of strategies no one's thought of before. In the most straightforward natural meaning of the term, we have to say--I think the program that beat the world champion was called Deep Fritz. So when Deep Fritz beat Kramnik, it was being creative. It made a move that Kramnik didn't think of and perhaps nobody had. Perhaps no chess game before had had this move. Computers can do other sorts of things of this sort. There are mathematical theorem-proving programs. Now, some of these things can prove things that are mathematically way over my head. But let's take something simple like the Pythagorean Theorem, which we all learned in high school. And we learned how to prove the Pythagorean Theorem in Euclidean geometry, starting with the various axioms in Euclidean geometry, ba, ba-ba, ba-ba, ba-ba, ba bum. This proves Pythagorean Theorem. And it turns out there's a variety of proofs of the Pythagorean Theorem. And, in fact, a computer program has come up with a proof that, as far as was known, nobody in the world had ever come up with before. Well, other than prejudice, what would stop us from saying the program was being creative? Not just in sort of mathematical things like chess or math, there are, as you know, programs that can write music. And I don't just mean throw out some random assortment of notes. Programs that can produce music that have-- that we recognize as music, that have melodic structure and develop themes, resolve, music that nobody's heard before. Why not say the machine is creative? What, other than prejudice, would stop us from saying that? So if the argument's going to be, "We need to posit the existence of a soul in order to explain creativity," Again, that just seems wrong. Well, there's a--question, comment? Good. The question was, "When I talk about creativity here, am I trying to build in some appeal to the feeling that we may have when we're being creative?" And the answer is, "No." All I had in mind, as you know, is just--in talking about the creativity issue-- I just have in mind producing something new, producing something that hasn't been around before. And most particularly, producing something that your programmers didn't already have in mind. Remember, it's not as though the people who designed the chess-playing programs can beat it. The chess-playing program makes moves these guys haven't thought of. All right. The creativity argument may not work, but there's something that sort of immediately comes on its heels. Even if we could build a program, even if we had built programs that can be creative, that can do things that nobody's thought of before, all the program is doing is following its program, right? It's just a series of lines of code. And the robot or the computer or what have you is just automatically, mechanically following the code commands of the program. We might say, even if we are smart enough to build programs that can, by mechanistically following the program, do things we've never thought of. Still all the computer can do, all the robot can do is automatically, necessarily, mechanically follow the program. It doesn't have free will. But we have free will. So, here's a new argument for the existence of the soul. People have free will. No merely mechanical object, no robot, no computer could have free will. But since we've got free will, we must be something more than a merely physical object. There must be something extra, something immaterial about us, the soul. So maybe that's why we need to believe in souls in order to explain free will. Now, the subject, free will, is a very, very-- The subject of consciousness is a very complicated. One could have an entire semester devoted to thinking about the philosophical problem of consciousness. And indeed, as it happens, in our department this very semester there is such a class devoted, all semester, to the topic of consciousness. One could similarly have a course devoted to the problem of free will. I'm going to spend all of two minutes on it. So it's by no means do I mean to suggest, "Oh, here's everything you need to know about the subject." I simply want to point out enough about the problem to help you see why I don't think free will is a slam-dunk for the soul. So what's the argument? Well, the thought seems to be something like this. One, we have free will. Two--let me say something about this. What is it about the thought that the computer is just following a program? Well, the thought, I suppose is, in philosopher's jargon, that the computer is a deterministic system. It follows the laws of physics and the laws of physics are deterministic. If you're in this state, you will necessarily, given the laws of physics and the way the computer's programmed and built and so forth, these wires will turn on, turn off, these circuits will turn on, turn off, boom, suddenly you'll be in that state. There are certain laws such that, given that the computer's in this state, it must necessarily move in that state. When you've got a view about cause and effect that works this way-- for everything that happens, there's some earlier thing that caused it to happen such that given that earlier cause, the event had to follow-- that's a deterministic picture. And the thought, of course, is that the robot or the computer is a deterministic system and you can't have free will if you're a deterministic system. So number one, we have free will. Two, nothing subject to determinism has free will. Put one and two together. It follows, if nothing subject to determinism has free will, but we have free will, it follows that we're not subject to determinism. Suppose we then add three, all purely physical systems are subject to determinism. Well, one and two gave us that we are not subject to determinism. Three says, all purely physical systems are subject to determinism. Well, it would follow then from one, two, and three that we are not a purely physical system. So, conclusion, four, we are not a purely physical system. All right. That's the argument from free will. Now, the argument is valid. That's philosopher's jargon, that is to say, given the three premises, the conclusion really does follow. The interesting question is, "Are the three premises true?" And they've got to all be true. It's got to be that every single one of them is so. I'll just spend a minute more on this starting next time. But the point to think about for next time is just, is it really true that all three of the premises are true, or might one or more of them be false? All right. That's where we'll start next time. 



 Chapter 4: 灵魂存在与否的论证（三）：自由意志与濒死体验


All right. We've been talking about arguments that might give us reason to believe in the existence of an immaterial soul. The kinds of arguments we have been considering so far all fall under the general rubric of "Inference to the best explanation." We posit--or the fans of souls posit-- the existence of souls so as to explain something that needs explaining about us. I've gone through a series of such arguments, and the one that we ended with last time was the suggestion that we need to believe in the existence of a soul in order to explain the fact that we've got free will. The fact that we've got free will is something that most of us take for granted about ourselves. But the complaint then, or the objection to the physicalist, takes the form that we couldn't be a merely physical entity because no merely physical entity could have free will. But we've got free will, so there's got to be something more to us than just being a physical object. Now, if we push the dualist to explain what is it about free will that rules out the possibility that we are merely physical objects, I think the natural suggestion to spell out the argument goes like this, and this is where we were at the end of last time. The thought is that, there's a kind of incompatibility with being free and being determined. I mean, after all from the physicalist's point of view, we're just a kind of glorified robot, able to do all sorts of things that most robots in most science fiction movies can do. But still, in a sense, we're just a glorified physical object. We're just a robot. And robots, the objection goes, are programmed; they necessarily follow their program. More generally speaking, we might say, they're subject to deterministic laws... that, as physical objects, it's true of them that they must do what the laws of physics and laws of nature require that they do. And the laws of physics are-- take a deterministic form, determinism being a bit of philosopher's jargon for when it's true of these laws that or a physical--or a system-- that if you set it up a certain way, cause and effect plays out such that, given that initial setup, the very same effect must follow. It's determined by the laws of nature that the effect that follows will follow from that cause. And so, if you rewind the tape and play it again over and over and over again, each time you set things up the very same way they must move or transform or change or end up in the very same state. Well, that's what determinism is all about. And intuitively, it seems plausible to many people that you couldn't have free will and be subject to determinism. Because the notion of free will was that even if I was in the very same spot again, the very same situation again, I could've chosen differently. So I wasn't determined or predetermined to make that choice. So if we were to spell out the argument somewhat more fully, it might be, "We have free will, but you can't both have free will and be subject to determinism or subject to deterministic laws." And every physical object, or every purely physical object, is subject to deterministic laws because the laws of physics are deterministic. You put these things together and you get the conclusion that we, since we've got free will, can't be a purely physical object. There must be something more than the purely physical to us. That's the argument I put up on the board at the end of last class. And here we've got it up here now. One, we have free will. Two, nothing subject to determinism has free will. Three, all purely physical systems are subject to determinism. So--a conclusion-- We are not a purely physical system. To explain the fact that we've got free will, so the objection goes, we have to appeal to-- we have to posit--the existence of a soul, something non-physical, something more than purely physical. Well, that's the argument. But I don't myself find the argument compelling. Now, the first thing to notice is that to get the conclusion we need all three premises. Give up the conclusion that we've got-- Give up the premise that "We've got free will," it won't follow that we're non-physical. Even if something that did have free will would have to be non-physical, it wouldn't follow that we're non-physical. That's true for each one of the premises. Give it up, the conclusion doesn't go through. And the interesting thing is that each one of these premises could be plausibly challenged. Now, as I said last time, the subject of free will--or free will, determinism, causation and responsibility, this cluster of problems-- is an extremely difficult and complicated physical problem. And we could easily devote an entire semester to discussing it. So all we're doing here is the most quick and superficial glance. But still, let me quickly point out why you could resist the argument from free will to the existence of a soul. First of all, as I just noted, the argument needs premise number one. It's got to be the case to prove that we've got a soul-- at least for this argument to work to prove that we've got a soul-- it's got to be the case that we've got free will. Now, that could be challenged. There are philosophers who have said we certainly believe that we've got free will, but it's an illusion. We don't really have free will. Indeed, why don't we have free will? For precisely the reasons that are pointed to by the rest of the argument. They might say, "Oh, well, you know, we're physical objects; determinism is true of us. No physical object that's subject to determinism could have free will, so we don't have free will. Of course, we mistakenly believe we've got free will. We are physical objects that labor under the illusion that we have free will, but after all, free will isn't something that you can just see, right? You can't peer into your mind and see the fact that you've got free will. Yes, we've got the sense that we could've acted differently, but maybe that's an illusion." As I say, there are philosophers who've argued that way, have denied that we have free will and if we do conclude that we don't actually have free will, then we no longer have this argument for the existence of a soul. It's a way to avoid the argument; although, for what it's worth, I should mention I don't myself believe that it's false that we have free will. That is to say, I do think premise one is true. I myself think we do have free will. So although I don't like, I don't believe the argument is sound-- Premise one doesn't happen to be the premise I myself would want to reject. But there are other, there are two other key premises. What about premise number three, "All purely physical systems are subject to determinism." Well, we need that premise as well to make the argument go. Suppose we think, "Look, you can't have free will and determinism. You can't combine them." The view that you can't combine them is sometimes known as "Incompatibilism". For the obvious reason. It's the view that these two things are incompatible. You can't have determinism and free will. Suppose we do believe in incompatibilism and believe that we've got free will. It would follow then that we're not subject to deterministic laws. Well, the dualist says, "That shows us that we have to believe that there's something non-physical about us. Because after all, premise three: 'All purely physical systems are subject to determinism.' Isn't it true after all that the basic laws of physics are deterministic laws? And the answer is, "Well it's not so clear that it is true." Which is just to say that premise three of the argument can be rejected as well. Now, at this point I have to just confess, as I've confessed at other times before, the three is a claim about empirical science. What does our best theory about the laws of nature tell us? And I'm no scientist and I'm no specialist in sort of empirical matters, and believe me, I'm no authority on quantum mechanics, our best theory of fundamental physics. Still, I take it--I gather--here's what I'm told-- that the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics says that, despite what many of us might've otherwise believed, the fundamental laws of physics are not, in fact, deterministic. What does that mean? Suppose we've got some sort of radioactive atom, which has a certain chance of decaying. What does that mean? Well, it means that, you know, there's maybe, let's say, that in the next 24 hours it will break down. Eighty percent of atoms that are set up like that break down in the next 24 hours; 20 percent of them don't. Now, according to quantum mechanics under the standard interpretation, that's all there is to say about it. You have an atom like that, 80 percent chance in the next 24 hours it will break down. Suppose it does break down! Can we say why it broke down? Sure. We can say, "Well, after all there was an 80 percent chance that it would." Take an atom that after 24 hours hasn't broken down. Can we say why it hasn't broken down? Sure. There was a 20 percent chance that it wouldn't. Can we explain why the ones that do break down break down and the ones that don't break down don't break down? No. All we can say is, there was an 80 percent chance it would, 20 percent chance it wouldn't, so most of them do, some of them don't. That's as deep as the explanation goes. There is nothing more. Now, you know, when we've got our deterministic hats on, we think to ourselves, "There's got to be some underlying causal explanation, some feature about the break-down atoms that explains why they broke down and that was missing from the non-break-down atoms that explains why they don't break down. After all, determinism, right? If you set up the atoms exactly the same way, they've always got to break down." But the answer is, according to the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics, that's not how it works. All there is to say is, "Some of these are going to break down, and some of these won't." The fundamental laws of physics, according to the standard interpretation of quantum mechanics, are probabilistic. Determinism is not true at the level of fundamental physics. Well, that's what I'm told. Believe me, I'm in no position to say, but that's what I'm told. And of course, if that's true, then premise three is false. It just isn't true that all purely physical systems are subject to determinism. So even if it does turn out that you can't have free will and determinism, that doesn't rule out the possibility that we are purely physical objects, because not all purely physical systems are subject to determinism. If determinism isn't true of us at the fundamental level, then even if you couldn't both have determinism and free will, we could still have free will, and yet, for all that, still be purely physical systems. While I'm busy pointing out ways in which the argument doesn't succeed, I also want to just take a moment and mention that premise two is also subject to criticism. Premise two was the incompatibilist claim that, "Nothing subject to determinism has free will." You can't combine them. They're incompatible. Now, incompatibilism, I take it, is probably something like the common-sense view here. It's the view that probably most of you believe, but again, it's worth noting that philosophically it can be challenged. There are philosophers-- and here I'll tip my hat and say, I'm one of them--there are philosophers who believe that, in fact, the idea of free will is not incompatible with determinism. So even if determinism were true of us, that wouldn't rule out our having free will, because you can-- appearances to the contrary notwithstanding-- have both determinism and free will. They're compatible. Hence, this view is known as compatibilism. If we accept compatibilism, we'll be able to say, "Look, maybe we have free will and determinism is true of us; but for all that, we're still just purely physical systems." Even if quantum mechanics was wrong and somehow, you know, at the macro level all the indeterminism boils out-- whatever-- and at the macro level we are deterministic systems, so what? If a deterministic system could nonetheless have free will, we could still be purely physical systems. Now, mind you, I haven't said anything today to convince you of the truth of compatibilism, nor am I going to try to do that. My point here was only to say we shouldn't be so quick to think that we have to believe in the existence of a soul in order to explain our having free will. It takes all of the premises of the argument to get the conclusion that the soul exists. And each one of the premises can be challenged. And here I mean not merely, well, logically speaking, you know, of course you can reject any premise of any argument. No. I mean, there are reasonable philosophical or scientific grounds for worrying about each one of the premises. The argument requires a lot. That doesn't prove that the argument fails, but it does mean that you're going to have your work cut out for you if you're going to use this route to arguing for the existence of a soul. All right. Let's recap. As I said, we've been considering different kinds of arguments for the existence of a soul, each of which appeals to some feature about us-- our creativity, our ability to feel, the fact that we have a qualitative aspect of experience, our ability to reason-- what have you. Some fact about us that calls out for explanation, and the claim on the part of the dualists was, we couldn't explain it without appealing to a soul. And I've argued-- I've shared with you my reasons for thinking that those arguments are not compelling. But notice that all of the kinds of considerations I pointed to so far are what we might think of as everyday, familiar features about us. It's an everyday occurrence that we can think and reason and feel and be creative, or choose otherwise and have free will. Maybe the better arguments for the soul focus not on the everyday but on the unusual, on the supernatural. Here we might then have an entire other family of arguments, set of arguments--again, still of the form "Inference to the best explanation." Maybe we need to posit the soul in order to explain ghosts. Maybe we need to posit the soul in order to explain ESP; maybe we need to posit the soul in order to explain near-death experiences. Maybe we need to posit the soul in order to explain what goes on in séance or communications from the dead or what have you. For any one of those, we could again run an argument where we say, "Look, here is something that needs explaining. The best explanation appeals to the soul." Now, I'm going to be rather quicker in discussing this family of arguments, but let me take at least a couple of minutes and do something about that. Take, for example, near-death experiences. This is something that you read a bit about in the selection from Schick and Vaughn in your course packet The basic idea was probably familiar to most of you anyway, that the following thing happens with people who, you know, maybe their heart goes into a cardiac arrest-- what have you. They die on the operating table, but then they're brought back to life, as we put it. And many such people, when we question them afterwards, have a very striking experience. And one of the things that's striking is, how similar the experience is from person to person and from culture to culture-- that they've got some notion, as they were dead on the operating table, of leaving their body. Perhaps they begin to view their body from up-- floating up above it. Eventually, perhaps, they leave the operating room altogether in this experience that they're having, and they have a feeling of joy and euphoria; they have some experience of going through a tunnel, seeing some light at the end of the tunnel. Perhaps at the other end of the tunnel they begin to have some communications or see some loved one who has died previously or perhaps some famous religious person in their-- in the teaching of their tradition-- their religious tradition. They have the sense that what they've done is basically died and gone to heaven. But then suddenly they get yanked back, and they wake up, you know, in the hospital room. So they've had near-death experiences. Or perhaps a better way to put it would be they've had death experiences but then have been brought back to life. Now, there it is, right? You survey people, and people have these experiences. And now we have to ask ourselves, "What explains this?" And here's a perfectly straightforward and natural explanation. These people died. Their bodies died, and they went to the next world. They went to the next life. They went to heaven but then were yanked back. Now, their bodies were lying there on the operating table; their bodies weren't in heaven. So something non-bodily went to heaven. That's how the explanation goes. It's a natural, straightforward explanation of what's gone on here. Hence, inference to the best explanation. We need to posit the soul, something immaterial that survives the death of the body, that can leave the body, go up to heaven; though, as it happens in these cases, the tie is never completely broken. They get yanked back; the soul gets yanked back by whatever cause, and reconnected to the body. It's as though we might think of there being two rooms-- to use a kind of analogy here. There is the room that this world represents, this life represents. And what happens in these experiences is that your soul leaves this room and goes into a second room, the room of the next world or the next life, but for various reasons, isn't allowed to stay in the next room. It gets yanked back to this room. Well, that's a possible explanation. And in a moment, I'll ask whether it's the best possible explanation, but before we do turn to that question, there is an objection to this entire way of looking at things that's probably worth pausing for a moment and considering. The objection is similar to the kind of dismissive attitude that we saw at the beginning of the course about the question, "Could I survive my death?" Well, duh. Could there be life after there is no more life? Well, of course not. Here the objection says, this two-room notion's got to be mistaken. It can't be that what's going on in near-death experiences is that people are reporting about what it's like to be dead because-- so the objection says-- they never really died. After all, 20 minutes later, or whatever it is, there they are up and about. Well, not up and about; they're presumably lying in their hospital beds, but they're clearly alive. Hence, it follows that they never really died. Or, if you want, you could say maybe they died, but since they obviously didn't die permanently-- after all they were brought back to life-- how could they possibly tell us what it's like to be permanently dead? How can we take their experiences as veridical reports of the afterlife? Because what we want to know is what is like to be permanently dead, and these people were never permanently dead. So whatever unusual experiences they may be having, they are not reports of the afterlife. That's how the objection goes. Although, I think, I was pausing for a moment to raise that objection, it's not an objection that I think we should take all that seriously. Suppose we were to agree, all right, strictly speaking these people didn't die. Or strictly speaking they didn't die, certainly at least, permanently. Does it follow from that that their experiences should not be taken as evidence of what the afterlife is like? I think that's really a misguided objection. Suppose somebody said, "Look, I spent 20 years living in France, and then I came back to the United States. And so I want to tell you what it's like in France." And somebody says, "You know, you never really moved to France permanently. So your experiences in France, whatever they are-- interesting as they may be-- can't really cast any light on what it would be like to permanently move to France. You'd say, "Give me a break!" Right? "It's true that, of course, I didn't move to France permanently. Still, I have some experience of France. And so I can--a great deal after all, 20 years-- I can give you a pretty good idea of what it's like to live in France, even if I didn't move there for the rest of my life without ever coming back." You can't say quite as much if you've only been in France for a couple of days before coming back, but still you can say something relevant. Indeed, suppose I never went into France at all. Suppose all that happened was I stood right on the border and peered into France, talked to some people in France. They were on the French side of the border, I was on the other side, but I talked to them for a while. Still, I never went in, but for all that I might have something helpful to say about what it's like in France. Well, if that's the right thing to say about the France case, then why not say the same thing about the near-death experience case? Even if these people didn't stay in the second room, they didn't stay dead, they had some experience of being dead. Isn't that relevant to what it would be like to be dead? Or even if we say, "No. Strictly speaking, these people didn't die at all. They were just on the border looking in. They never, strictly speaking, died at all." So what? They were on the border looking in. To suggest that that couldn't be relevant evidence is like saying I can't tell you anything interesting about what's going on in the hallway right now, because after all I'm not in the hallway; I'm here in the lecture hall. So what? Even though I'm here in the lecture hall, I can see into the hallway and tell you what's going on in it. So attempts to dismiss the appeal to near- death experiences on what we might call philosophical grounds-- this would be the bad notion of philosophy-- on philosophical grounds, I think that's got to be misguided. Still, that doesn't mean that we should believe the argument for the existence of the soul from near-death experiences, because the question remains, "What's the best explanation of what's going on in near-death experiences?" Now, one possibility, as I suggested, was what I called a second ago the "Two-room explanation." There's the room of this life, and there's the room of the next life and people who have near-death experiences either temporarily were in the second room or else at least they were glancing into the second room. That's one possible explanation. But of course, there's a different possible explanation-- the one-room explanation. There's just life, this life, and as you come very close to the wall of the room, things end up looking and seeming and feeling rather different than they do in the middle of the room. Now, maybe the one-room metaphor is not the best metaphor, because it immediately prompts the question, "Well, what's on the other side of the wall?" And of course, the physicalist's suggestion is there isn't anything on the other side of the wall. So maybe a better way to talk about it would just be: Life's a biological process; we're all familiar with that process, sort of, in its middle stretches. In its closing stretches, some fairly unusual biological processes kick in. In rare, but not unheard of, cases, some people begin to have those unusual biological processes and then return to the normal biological processes and can talk about what was happening in the unusual biological processes. Which is just to say, we need to offer a biological/physical explanation of what goes on in near-death experiences. Now, mind you, that's not yet to offer the physical explanation; it's just a promissory note. We now have two rival explanations, the soul, dualist, explanation that we went into the other world and the physicalist, promissory note that we can explain the white lights and the feeling of euphoria and seeing your body from a distance in physical terms. We don't really have very much of a physical explanation until we begin to offer scientific accounts of each of those aspects of near-death experience. But this is, in fact, an area on which scientists work. And you saw some of the beginnings of an explanation offered in the reading by Schick and Vaughn. So, for example, when the body is in stress, as would likely happen toward the end of the biological processes, when the body is in stress, certain endorphins get released by the body. Perhaps that explains the feelings of euphoria. When the body is in stress, we have various unusual stimulations of the visual sections of the brain, and perhaps that explains the white light or the feeling of compression in the tunnel. Now, again, I'm not any kind of scientist and so I'm not in any position to say, "Look, here are the details of the explanation." But you get the beginnings of that sketched in the readings, and it's a judgment call you've got to make. Does it seem more plausible that we can explain these experiences in terms of the traumatic stress that your body and brain is going through when you are near dying? Or is it more plausible to suggest, "No. What's happened here is a soul has been released from connection with the body." For my money, I find the beginnings of the scientific explanation sufficiently persuasive and sufficiently compelling that I don't find the argument from near- death experience--as an argument for the existence of a soul-- I don't find it especially persuasive. Of course, there are various other things we could appeal to in terms of supernatural occurrences, right? I've only mentioned--only discussed now in detail-- one of them. But there are a variety of things about people who can communicate from the dead or ghosts or seances or what have you. And what the physicalist would need to do for each one of those-- For each one of those you can imagine a dualist who says, "We need to believe in a soul so as to explain seances. How do we explain the fact that the person who's conducting the seance knows things about, your history that only your dead uncle would know?" The dualist can explain that by appealing to ghosts and the like. How does the physicalist explain things like that? Short answer is, I don't know. I'm not the kind of person who makes it his business to try to explain away those things in physicalist, naturalistic, materialistic, scientific terms. But there are people who make it their business. So, for example, there's a magician-- The question is not, could I explain to you how the seance manages to do the amazing things that it does? You're wasting your time asking somebody like me. The person to ask is a magician, somebody whose profession it is to fool people and make it look like they can do things with magic. So in fact, there are professional magicians who make it their business to debunk people who claim to genuinely be in contact with the dead and the like. There's a magician, I think his name is The Amazing Randi, who has a sort of standing offer; he says, "You show me what happened in the seance or in communication with the dead or what have you, and I'll show you how to do it. I'll debunk it for you." Spoiler alert. And he has a standing offer, he says, "I'll pay whatever the amount is, $10,000 to the first person who can document some effect done in supernatural terms that I can't reproduce through trickery." So far he's never had to pay out. Well again, that doesn't prove the dualist is wrong. It could be that there are genuine seances. It could be that there really are ghosts. It could be that there really is communication from the dead. As is typically the case, you've got to decide for yourself what strikes you as the better explanation. Is the supernatural, dualist explanation the more likely one? Or is the physicalist explanation the more likely one? Look, you have a dream where your dead mother has come back to talk to you. One possible explanation, the dualist, that's the ghost of your mother, immaterial soul that she is, communicating to you while you're asleep. Second possible explanation, it's just a dream. Of course you dream about your mother because your unconscious cares about her. What's the better explanation? We don't have the time here to go case, by case, by case, and ask ourselves, "How does the evidence fall down one side versus the other?" But when I review the evidence, I come away thinking there's no good reason to move beyond the physical. So again, let's recap. One group of arguments for the existence of a soul says, "We need to posit a soul in order to explain something, whether it's something everyday or something supernatural." The existence of a soul would be the beginnings of a possible explanation. But the question is never, "Is that a possible explanation?" but, "Is it the best explanation?" And when I review these various arguments, I come away thinking the better explanation falls with the physicalist. Mind you, I don't want to deny that there are some things the physicalist has not yet done a very compelling job of explaining. In particular, as I've mentioned previously, i think there are mysteries and puzzles about the nature of consciousness, The qualitative aspect of experience, what it's like to smell coffee or taste pineapple or see red. It's very hard to see how you explain that in physicalist terms. So to that extent, I think we can say the jury may still be out. But I don't think what we should say is, "The better explanation lies with the dualist." Because I think positing a soul doesn't really yet offer us the explanation. It just holds out the promise of an explanation. So at best that's a tie, and hence, no compelling reason to accept the existence of a soul. It would be one thing, if we could see that no conceivable physicalist explanation could possibly work. But I don't think we're in that situation. All we're in right now is, perhaps in existence of that with regard to consciousness, maybe some other things, we don't yet see how to explain it. But not yet seeing how to explain it is not the same thing as seeing that it can't be explained on physicalist terms. Of course, again, if we had a dualist explanation with some details really worked out, maybe we'd have to say, "Look, this is the better explanation." But dualism doesn't so much offer the explanation typically as just say, "Well, maybe we'd be better off positing something immaterial." That, I think, is not a very compelling argument. Well, let's ask. What other kinds of arguments could be offered for the existence of a soul? I want to emphasize the point that the various arguments that I have been talking about so far, although they have this common strand-- "Inference to the best explanation"-- are each separate and distinct arguments. One of them might work even though the other ones don't work. But I want to turn now to a rather different kind of argument. The argument I'm about to sketch is a purely philosophical argument, not really so much a matter of who can explain this or that feature of us better than anybody else. It's an argument that doesn't seem to have any empirical premises; it works from purely armchair philosophical reflection. And the striking thing is that many people find this a pretty compelling argument. The argument I'm going to give traces back to Descartes, the great early modern philosopher. Well, I'm not going to follow the details of this argument, but the basic idea goes back to Descartes. And it starts by asking you to imagine a story. So I'm going to tell the story in the first person. I'm going to tell about myself, but you know, you'll find the argument sort of, perhaps more persuasive if, as I tell the story, you imagine the story being told about you. So each one of you should translate this into a story about yourself. You know, your morning. So this is a story about my morning. Imagine--this didn't, of course, actually happen, but imagine--the crucial point here is simply that we can imagine this story happening, not even that we think it's empirically possible, just it's conceivable, it's an imaginable story. All right. So suppose that I woke up this morning, that is to say, at a certain point I look around my room and I see the familiar sights of my darkened bedroom. I hear, perhaps, the sounds of the cars outside my house, my alarm clock ringing, what have you. I move out of the room toward the bathroom, planning to brush my teeth. As I enter the bathroom, it's much more light, I look in the mirror and-- here's where things get really weird--I don't see anything. Normally, of course, when I look in the mirror I see my face. I see my head; I see the reflection of my torso. But now, as I'm looking into the mirror, I don't see anything at all. Instead, I see the shower reflected behind me. Normally, that's blocked of course by me, by my body. But I don't see my body. Slightly freaked out, I reach for my head, or perhaps we should say I reach for where I would expect my head to be, but I don't feel anything there. Glancing down at my arms, I don't see any arms. Now, I'm really panicking. As I begin trying to touch my body, I don't feel anything. I don't--not only can't I feel anything with my fingers, I don't have any sensations where my body should be. Now, we could continue this story, but I've probably said enough for you to grant that what I've just started doing-- a novelist could do a better job of telling the story than I just did-- but what I've just done was basically imagine-- I've imagined a story in which I discover that my body doesn't exist. Or I've imagined a story in which my body has perhaps ceased to exist, or I've imagined a story in which I exist, or at least my mind exists. You know, I'm thinking thoughts like, "Why can't I see my body in the mirror? Why can't I feel my head? What's going on?" I'm panicking, right? We've got a story in which I'm thinking all sorts of thoughts; my mind clearly exists, and yet, for all that, my body does not exist. We could--certainly it seems-- imagine that possibility. Now, the brilliant thing about this argument is it goes from that to a conclusion about there being a difference between my mind and my body. What we've just done, after all, is imagine that my mind exists but my body does not. Now, what does that show? Descartes says what it shows is the mind and the body must be two logically distinct things. The mind and the body cannot be the same thing. Because, after all, what I just did was imagine my mind existing without my body. How could I even do that, even in imagination? How could it even be possible to imagine my mind without my body, if talking about my mind is just a way of talking about my body? If they're really, bottom line, metaphysically speaking, the same thing, then you couldn't have one without the other after all. So here's a podium. Try to tell a story in which this podium exists but this podium does not exist. You can't do it, right? The podium is just one thing, the podium. And if it is just one thing, you could tell a story in which it exists; you could tell a story in which it doesn't exist. But you can't tell a story in which it exists and doesn't exist. If I can tell a story in which A exists and B doesn't exist, it's got to follow that A and B are not the same thing. Because if B was just another word for, another way of talking about, A, then to imagine A existing but B not existing would be imagining A existing but-- well, B is just A--A not existing. But of course, you can't imagine a world in which A exists but A doesn't exist. Put the same point the other way around: If I can imagine A without B, then A and B have to be logically distinct things. They cannot be identical. But since I can imagine my mind existing without my body, it follows that my mind and my body have to be logically distinct things. They cannot be identical. My mind cannot just be a way of talking. Talking about my mind cannot just be a way of talking about my body. Now, it's a very cool argument. You know, philosophers love this argument. And I've got to tell you, to this day there's a debate in the philosophical community about whether or not this argument works. It's one thing to be clear-- a couple of things to be clear about. What exactly is this argument not doing? The argument is not saying, "If something is possible, if I can imagine it, it's true." No. I can imagine unicorns. It doesn't mean unicorns exist. That's not what the argument is saying. The argument is only making a much more specific claim. If I can imagine one thing without the other, they must be separate things. Now, of course, it could still be that in the real world the one thing cannot exist without the other. There may be some sort of metaphysical laws that tie the two things so tightly together that you'll never actually get one without the other. That's not the question. The point is just if I can at least imagine the one thing without the other, they must in fact be two separate things. Because if there was really just one thing there, you couldn't imagine it without it. Since I can imagine my mind without my body, it must be the case that my mind is something separate and distinct from my body. Otherwise, how could I imagine it existing without the body? If they were the same thing, I couldn't--I can't imagine the body existing without the body. If the mind is just a way of talking about the body, how could I imagine the mind without the body? Since I can imagine the mind without the body, it follows that they're separate. So the mind is not the body after all. It's something different. It's the soul. Is that a good argument or not? That's where we'll start next time. 



 Chapter 5: 灵魂存在与否的论证（四）：柏拉图（二）


At the end of last class, we started sketching an argument that comes from Descartes, the Cartesian argument, that says merely by the process of thinking, on the basis of thought alone, it tends to show that the mind-- We all agree that there are minds. What the argument attempts to show is that this mind must be something separate from my body. And what's amazing about the argument is that it works on the basis of a pure thought experiment. The thought experiment, you recall, was one in which I imagine, I tell myself a story in which what I'm doing is I'm imagining my mind existing without my body. It doesn't seem especially difficult to do that. But then, we add this extra philosophical premise. If I can imagine one thing without the other, then it must be that those are two things. So my mind must not be my body. My mind must not be the same thing as my body or a way of talking about my body, because of course if my mind just was-- talking about my mind just was-- a way of talking about my body, then to try to imagine my mind without my body would be trying to imagine my body without my body. And that, obviously, can't happen. Look. Suppose we try to imagine a world in which Shelly exists but Kagan doesn't. You can't, right? Because of course, they're just a single thing, Shelly Kagan. And so if you've imagined Shelly existing then of course you're imagining that single thing, Shelly Kagan, existing. And if you imagine Kagan not existing, then you're imagining that single thing, Shelly Kagan, not existing. So you can't even imagine a world in which Shelly exists but Kagan doesn't. Now, it's important not to be confused about this. We can easily imagine a world in which I don't have the last name Kagan or perhaps to switch it around, Shelly's not my name. Suppose my parents had named me Bruce. Nothing would be easier. Imagine a world in which Kagan exists, but Shelly doesn't exist, because nobody in the world is named Shelly. The question is not, "Can you imagine me with a different name?" Bruce instead of Shelly, easy enough. It's rather, "Can you imagine a world in which the very thing that you really are picking out when you refer to me by the name Shelly-- namely this thing-- can you imagine a world in which that thing exists, but the thing that you're picking up when you use the word Kagan does not exist?" And that you can't do, because in the real world of course Shelly and Kagan pick out just two different names of this very same thing. This thing right here. So imagining a world in which Shelly exists but Kagan doesn't or Kagan exists but Shelly doesn't, that's trying to imagine a world in which I exist but I don't. And that's, of course, incoherent. So if you can--On the other hand, contrast. Can I imagine a world in which my left hand exists, but my right hand doesn't? Easy. Why is it so easy? Because of course there's two different things. Of course, that doesn't mean that in the real world one of them does exist and the other one doesn't. But it does show that in the real world they are two different things. That's why I could imagine a world with one but not the other. Try to imagine a world in which somebody's smile exists but their body doesn't. You can't do it. You can't have the smile without the body. And of course, no mystery about that. That's because the smile isn't really some separate thing from the body. Talking about smiles, as we've noted before, is just a way of talking about either what the body can do or what a certain area of the body can do. You can try to imagine it. In Alice in Wonderland, the Cheshire Cat disappears and all we have left, the last thing that disappears, is the smile. But of course, when you imagine the Cheshire Cat only having the smile there, you're still imagining the cat's lips, teeth, maybe tongue, whatever it is. If you try to imagine a smile with no body at all, it can't be done. Why? Because the smile isn't something separate from the body. "Try to imagine my mind," Says Descartes, "Without my body." Easy. From which it follows that my mind and my body must not be one thing. They must, in fact, be two things. That's why it's possible to imagine the one without the other. So this Cartesian argument seems to show us that the mind is something separate from, distinct from, not reducible to, not just a way of talking about, my body. So it's got to be something extra above and beyond my body. It's a soul. That's what Descartes argued. And as I say, to this day, philosophers disagree about whether this argument works or not. I don't think it does work and in a second I'll give you a counter example. And then, having given the counter example That is to say, what I'm going to give is an example of an argument just like it, or at least an argument that seems to be just like it where we can pretty easily see that that argument doesn't work. And so something must go wrong with Descartes' argument as well. Well, here's the counter example. Some of you, I'm sure most of you, maybe all of you, are familiar with the Evening Star. The Evening Star is the, roughly speaking, first heavenly body that's visible in the sky as it gets dark, at least at certain times of the year. And I'm sure you're also familiar then with the Morning Star. The Morning Star is that heavenly body which is the last heavenly body that's still visible as dawn comes in and it begins to get light. So as a first pass, the Evening Star is the first star that's visible and the Morning Star is the last star that's visible at the right times of the year. The world that we live in has both the Evening Star and the Morning Star. But try to imagine a world in which the Evening Star exists, but the Morning Star does not. Seems fairly straightforward, right? I get up in the morning as dawn's approaching. I look around and the Morning Star is not there. There is no star where the Morning Star had been or where people have claimed it would be or something. But the Evening Star still exists. When I go out as sun sets and dusk falls, there is the Evening Star. So, as I say, it's a trivial matter to imagine a world in which the Evening Star exists and the Morning Star does not. And so we've got a--we could imagine then a-- Descartes-like argument saying, "If I can imagine the Evening Star without the Morning Star, that shows the Evening Star and the Morning Star must be two different heavenly bodies." But in fact, that's not so. The Evening Star and the Morning Star are the very same heavenly body. In fact, it's not a star at all. It's a planet. It's Venus, if I recall correctly. So look, there's only one thing. The Evening Star is Venus. The Morning Star is Venus. So there couldn't be a world in which the Evening Star exists, but the Morning Star doesn't, because that would be a world in which Venus exists and Venus doesn't exist. Obviously, that's not possible. Of course what you can imagine is a world in which Venus isn't visible in the morning. Still, that's not a world in which the Morning Star doesn't exist, given that what we mean by the Morning Star is that heavenly object, whatever it is, that in this world we pick out at that time in the morning looking up at the sky. So when I refer to the Morning Star, I'm talking about Venus, whether or not I realize it's Venus. When I talk about the Evening Star, I'm referring to Venus, whether or not I realize that Venus is the Evening Star. So as long as Venus is around, well, there's the Evening Star, there's the Morning Star, there's Venus. You can't have a world in which the Morning Star doesn't exist but the Evening Star does. Although you could have a world in which Venus doesn't show up in the morning. Still, from the fact that I can imagine the world in which I look around for the Morning Star-- there it isn't. I look around for the Evening Star-- there it is. You might have thought that showed--didn't Descartes prove to us that that shows--the Evening Star and the Morning Star are two different things? Well no, obviously it didn't. So let's think about what that means. So we've got this argument that Descartes puts forward. I can imagine my mind without my body. And Descartes says that shows that, in fact, my mind is something separate from my body. Well, I can imagine the Evening Star without the Morning Star, so Son of Descartes, "Descarteson," Has to say, "Oh, so that shows that the Morning Star and the Evening Star are two different things." But "Descarteson" Would be wrong when he says that. The Morning Star and the Evening Star aren't two different things. They're just one thing, namely Venus. In fact, the sentence, "They are one thing," is slightly misleading, right? It's just one thing, Venus. If that argument, if the argument-- If trying to run the Cartesian argument for astronomy fails, yet it seems to be an exactly analogous argument, we ought to conclude that the argument for the distinctness of the mind and the body must fail as well. Now, that seems to me to be right. I think the Cartesian argument does fail. And I think the example of the Evening Star and the Morning Star-- which is not at all original to me-- that this example shows, this counter example shows, that Descartes' original argument doesn't work either. At least, that's how it seems to me, though as I say, there are philosophers that say, "No, no. That's not right. Maybe somehow we misunderstood how the argument goes and it doesn't exactly-- although these two arguments seem parallel, they're not, in fact, parallel. There's some subtle differences that if we're not looking carefully, we'll overlook." But, as I say, the debate goes on. One of the reasons for thinking it's not clear whether the argument fails or not is because it's hard to pin down, where exactly did it go wrong? Look, take the argument of the planets, the Morning Star and the Evening Star example. I take it that we all agree that when we attempt to run the Cartesian argument in terms of the Morning Star and the Evening Star, it fails. But it's harder to say what went wrong? How did it go wrong? Why did it go wrong? What are the possibilities? Well, we said, look, first claim, first premise. I can imagine a world in which the Evening Star exists, but the Morning Star doesn't. Well, I suppose one possible response would be, "You know, you couldn't really do that. You thought you were imagining a world in which the Evening Star exists and the Morning Star doesn't, but you weren't really imagining a world in which the Evening Star exists and the Morning Star doesn't. You misdescribed what it is you've imagined." That's not a silly thing to say about the astronomy case. Maybe that's the right diagnosis. Could we similarly say, "I didn't really imagine a world in which my mind exists but my body doesn't"? That little story I told last time, I thought I was describing a world in which my mind exists and my body doesn't, but it wasn't really imagining a world like that. That doesn't seem so persuasive over there. It did seem as though I was imagining it. What else could go wrong with the astronomy example? Well, maybe I did imagine a world in which the Morning Star exists and the Evening Star doesn't exist, but maybe imagining doesn't mean it's possible. Normally, we think, if we imagine something, it means it's possible. Here I don't mean, of course, empirically possible. I could imagine a world with unicorns. It doesn't mean I think unicorns are physically possible. All we mean here is logically possible. I can imagine a world with unicorns. It seems to follow that unicorns are logically possible. Imagination seems to be a guide to possibility; but maybe not always. Maybe sometimes we can imagine something that's really impossible. Try to imagine-- can you do that or can you not do that?-- try to imagine a round square. Can you imagine it? Can you not imagine it? In certain moods, I sort of feel I can just begin to imagine it. Of course, it doesn't really mean it's possible. It seems like it's impossible. So maybe imagination is a flawed guide to possibility. So maybe that's what we should say about the mind-body case. "Yeah, I can imagine a world in which my mind exists but my body doesn't. But that doesn't show that it's really possible, logically possible to have a world in which my mind exists and my body doesn't." Maybe that's where the argument goes wrong. On the other hand, isn't imagination our best guide to logical possibility? Isn't the reason I think unicorns are logically coherent is because I can imagine them so easily? Another possibility. Maybe we should say, the mere fact that it's possible for A and B to be separate--for A to exist without B for example, that's clearly where they're separate-- the mere fact that it's possible for them to be separate doesn't mean that in the actual world they are separate. Maybe the argument goes wrong by assuming that identity--when A is equal to B, it's always equal to B, no matter what. Maybe identity, as philosophers like to put it, maybe identity is contingent. Maybe A could be the same thing as B in this logically possible world, but we could imagine a completely different logically coherent world in which A was not the same thing as B. If that's right, then maybe the conclusion should be "Well, you know, yeah, the Cartesian thought experiment shows that there could be a world in which there are minds that are not identical to bodies. But that doesn't mean that in this world the mind is not identical to my body. Maybe in this world, minds and bodies are identical, even though in other logically possible worlds the identity comes apart. Identity is not necessary, but contingent, as the philosophers put it." It's not clear that that's right either. The notion of contingent identity is very puzzling. After all, if A really is B, how could they come apart? There's only one thing there. There's nothing to come apart. There's just A equals B, that single thing. What's to come apart? So where exactly does the argument break down? Is it that I'm not really imagining? I'm just thinking I'm imagining? Is it that imagination's not really a good guide to possibility? I just--Often it is, but not always. Is it that identity is contingent? The interesting thing about Descartes' argument is that it's easy to see something has gone wrong in the case of the Morning Star and the Evening Star, but it's difficult to pin down what exactly went wrong. Different philosophers agree that something's gone wrong in the Morning Star and the Evening Star case, but disagree about the best diagnosis of where the mistake went in. Armed with your pet diagnosis of where the argument goes wrong there, you've got to ask, "Does it also go wrong in the mind and body case?" Well, we could spend more time, but I'm not going to. I think Descartes' argument fails. I think the Morning Star, Evening Star case shows us that arguments like this, at the very least, can't be taken at face value. Just because it looks as though we can imagine it and just because it seems as though from the fact that we can imagine one without the other, it just won't necessarily follow that we really do have two things that are separate and not identical in the real world. I'd be happy to discuss with you, outside class, at greater length my favorite theories as to where the argument goes wrong and why I think it goes wrong in Descartes' case as well. But I suggest that the argument goes wrong. It's not right. And so, Descartes' attempt to establish the distinctness of the mind, the immateriality of the mind, on the basis of this Cartesian thought experiment, I think that's unsuccessful. Well, we've spent-- Let's step back and think of where we've been. We've spent the last week and a half or so, maybe a bit more, two weeks, talking about arguments for the existence of the soul. And unsurprisingly-- since I announced this was going to be the result before the class had barely gotten started-- I don't think any of these arguments work. I believe the attempts to establish the existence of a soul, an immaterial object, the house of consciousness separate and distinct from the body, I think those arguments fail. But I recognize that this is something that reasonable people can disagree about. And so this is, as will be many times the case over the course of this semester, something that I invite you to continue to reflect on for yourself. If you believe in a soul, what's the argument for it? Well, what we're about to turn to is Plato's discussion of these issues in the dialogue the Phaedo, which, as I told you last week, purports to lay out the final day's discussion with Socrates before he is killed by--he kills himself-- by drinking the hemlock in accordance with the punishment that's been given to him. Now, in the course of this discussion, Socrates and his disciples argue about not so much the existence of the soul, but the question really is the immortality of the soul. After all, even if you believe in a soul, as I have remarked previously, that doesn't give us yet any reason to believe the soul continues to exist after the death of your body. The kind of dualist position that we are considering in this class is an interactionist position, where the soul commands the body. That's what makes my fingers move right now. And the body can affect the soul. If I poke my body, I feel it in my mind. So the mind, the soul, and the body are obviously very tightly connected. And so it could be-- even if the soul is something separate from the body-- that when the body dies, the soul dies as well. That's the question that's driving the discussion in the Phaedo. Do we have any good reason to believe the soul survives the death of the body? And more particularly still, do we have good reason to believe it's immortal? Socrates believes in the immortality of the soul. And so, he attempts to defend this position, justify it to his disciples who are worried that it may not be true. It's important to realize--as you read the dialogue, it becomes fairly apparent-- that there isn't so much any defense of the belief in the soul. There's some of it, but it's not the primary goal. For the most part, the existence of the soul is just taken for granted in the dialogue. Plato, as a dualist, portrays Socrates as being a dualist and that's just taken for granted. The question that the philosophical discussion turns on is not, "Is there a soul?" but rather, "Does it survive the death of the body? Is it immortal?" Now, as I said, this is Socrates' last day on earth and you'd expect him to be pretty bummed. You'd expect him to be sad. And one of the just striking things is that Socrates is in a very happy, indeed jovial, mood, joking with his friends. Why is that? Well, of course, it's because he thinks, first of all, there's a soul and it will survive and it's immortal. But more importantly still--those are all crucial but there's an extra ingredient as well-- he thinks he's got good reason to believe, when he dies he's going to go, basically, to what we'd call heaven. He thinks there's a realm populated by good gods and maybe other philosophical kindred souls. And if you got your stuff together here on life, you'll get to go to that when you die. And so he's excited. He's pleased. Why does he think he's going to go? Well, in thinking about Socrates' belief in the existence of a soul, it's important to understand, it's important to notice, that his take on which stuff gets assigned to the body, what are the bodily things versus what are the soul-like things, is rather different from the way, I think, most of us nowadays would draw the line. When I talked about arguments for the existence of a soul, I said, "Look, here's one possible argument. I see colors. No physical object could, no purely physical object could see colors. I can taste tastes and have the smell of coffee and so forth." But Socrates thinks all those bodily sensations-- that's all stuff that the body takes care of. So unlike those modern dualists who think we need to appeal to something immaterial in order to explain bodily sensations, Socrates thinks no, no, the body takes care of all the bodily sensations, all the desirings and the wantings and the emotions and the feelings and the cravings. That's all body stuff. What the soul does-- Socrates thinks--the soul thinks. The soul, in its essence, is rational. It takes care of the thinking side of things. What does the soul think about? Well, the soul thinks about all sorts of things, doubtless. But one of the things that it can do, one of the things that sort of provides the underpinnings, as we'll see, for Plato's arguments for the immortality of the soul is the soul can think about--; well, here I'll have to introduce a word of philosophical jargon. Sometimes the idea, sometimes the term is called "Ideas." Sometimes the term is called "Forms." But the thought is that the soul can think about certain pure concepts or ideas like justice itself, or beauty itself, or goodness itself, or health itself. So to explain all this we need now a sort of crash course in Plato's metaphysics. Obviously, this will be rather superficial. Those of you who would like to know more about it, I recommend reading more Platonic dialogues or taking a class in ancient philosophy. But here's the basic idea. There's all sorts of beautiful objects in the world. Objects can vary in terms of how beautiful they are. But Plato's got the idea that there's nothing in this world that's perfectly beautiful. And yet for all that, we can think about beauty itself. Well, we might put it this way. We might say, ordinary, humdrum, everyday, physical objects are somewhat beautiful. They're partially beautiful. As, sometimes, Platonists put it, they "Participate" In beauty. They partake of beauty to varying degrees. But none of them should be confused with beauty itself. Or, take justice. There are various arrangements, social arrangements, that can be just or unjust to varying degrees. But we don't think anywhere in the world there's any society that's perfectly just. Yet for all that, the mind can think about perfect justice. And notice how ordinary empirical social arrangements fall short of perfect justice. So whatever perfect justice is, it's not one more thing in the empirical world. It's something we can think about. It's something that things in the empirical world can participate in or partake of to varying degrees. But we shouldn't confuse the physical things which can be just, the people who can be virtuous to one degree or another, with perfect virtue or perfect justice. That's something that only the mind can think about, that we don't actually have in the world, the empirical world itself. Or take being round. The mind can think about perfect circularity. But no physical object is perfectly circular. There are only things that are circular to a greater or lesser degree. So, by thinking about it, by thinking about these kinds of issues, we can see that the mind has some kind of handle on these perfect, well, we need a word. And as I say, Plato gives us a word, "Ideas." Sometimes it's translated as "Ideas" Or "Forms." These things that we can think about that are the template, or at least the standard, or maybe at the very least it's that which the ordinary humdrum things can participate in to varying degrees: perfect justice, justice itself, beauty itself, goodness itself, circularity itself, health itself. All of these things are, as philosophers nowadays call them, Platonic forms. Ordinary material objects of this world can partake of the various Platonic forms, but they should not be confused with the Platonic forms. But we still-- even though we don't bump into the Platonic forms in this world-- we can think about them. Our mind has a kind of grasp of them. Of course, the problem is, we're distracted by the comings and goings, the hurly burly of the ordinary everyday world. And so we don't have a very good grasp of the Platonic forms. We're able to think about them, but we're distracted. What the philosopher tries to do-- this is Socrates' thought, or Plato's thought that he puts in Socrates' mouth-- what the philosopher tries to do is free himself from the distractions that the body poses--the desire for food, the craving for sex, being concerned about pain. All this stuff, hungering after pleasure, all this stuff gets in the way of thinking about the Platonic forms. What the philosopher tries to do, then, so as to better focus on these ideal things, is to disregard the body, put it aside, separate his mind as much as possible from it. That's what Socrates says he's been trying to do. And so because of that, he's got a better handle on these ideal forms. And then, he believes, when death comes and the final separation occurs of the mind and the body, his mind gets to go up, his soul gets to go up to this heavenly realm. Philosophers nowadays call it "Plato's heaven." He gets to go up to Plato's heaven where he can have more direct contact with these things, with the forms. Now, I don't have the time here to say enough to try and make it clear why this Platonic metaphysical view is a view that not only is worth taking seriously, but to this day, many, many philosophers think that, at least in it's basic strokes, must be right. But let me at least give you one example that may give you a feel for it. Think of math. Think of some simple mathematical claim like 2 + 2 = 4. When we say that 2 + 2 = 4 or 2 + 3 = 5, we're saying something about numbers that our mind is able to grasp. But what are numbers anyway? They're certainly not physical objects. It's not as though someday you're going to open up an issue of National Geographic where the cover story's going to be "At long last, explorers have discovered the number two." It's not as though the number two is something that you see or hear or taste or could bump into. Whatever the number two is, it's something that our mind can grasp but isn't actually in the physical world. That's the Platonic take on mathematics. There are numbers. The mind can think about them. Things can partake of them. If I were to hold up two pieces of paper, there's a sense in which they are participating in "Twohood." But of course, this is not the number two here. If I were to rip these pieces of paper, I wouldn't be destroying the number two. So the number two, the numbers, three, whatever it is, whatever they are, are these Platonic abstract entities that don't exist in space and time. Yet, for all that, the mind can think about them. That's the idea. And it's not a silly idea. It seems like a very compelling account of what's going on in mathematics. What mathematicians are doing is using their mind to think about these Platonic ideas of mathematics. Except Plato's thought was, everything is like that. It's not just math, but justice itself is like that. There are just or unjust things in the world. The mind can think about them, but justice itself--this perfect, this idea of being perfectly just-- that's something the mind can think about, but it's not here in the world. It's another abstract Platonic form. So that's the picture. Plato's idea is that if we start doing enough metaphysics, we can see there must be this realm of Platonic ideas, Platonic forms. And we can see that we are able to grasp them through the mind. This can't be a job the body does, because the body's only got its bodily capacities, right? It's able to do the five-senses thing. It's the soul that thinks about the Platonic forms. And as Plato's then going to go on to try to argue, given this picture of what the mind can do, he thinks he can persuade us that the mind, the soul, not only survives the death of your body, but will last forever. It's perfect. It's immaterial and can't be destroyed. It's immortal. So he offers a series of arguments for that conclusion, for that position, and starting next time, we'll work our way through those arguments. 



 Chapter 6: 柏拉图 (二) ：灵魂永恒与否的论证


We've begun to turn to Plato's dialogue Phaedo, and what I started doing last time was sketching the basic outlines of Plato's metaphysics-- not so much to give a full investigation of that-- clearly we're not going to do that here-- but just to provide enough of the essential outlines of Plato's metaphysical views so that we can understand the arguments that come up later in the Phaedo, basically all of which or many of which presuppose something-- certain central aspects about Plato's metaphysical views. The key point behind his metaphysics then was the thought that, in addition to the ordinary empirical physical world that we're all familiar with, we have to posit the existence of a kind of second realm, in which exist the Platonic-- as they're nowadays called-- the Platonic forms or Platonic ideas. The sort of thing that perhaps we might call or think of as abstract objects or abstract properties. And the reason for positing these things is because we're clearly able to think about these ideas, and yet, we recognize that the ordinary physical world-- although things may participate in them to varying degrees-- we don't actually come across these objects or entities in the physical world. So that we can talk about things being beautiful to varying degrees, but we never come across beauty itself in the actual empirical world. We are able to talk about the fact that two plus one equals three, but it's not as though we ever come across numbers-- number three itself--anywhere in the empirical world. A further point that distinguishes the empirical world from this-- this realm of Platonic ideal objects-- is that indeed they-- there's something perfect about them. They don't change. In contrast, physical objects are constantly changing. Something might be short at one point and become tall at another point, ugly at one point and become beautiful-- like the ugly duckling. It starts out ugly and becomes a beautiful swan. In contrast, justice itself never changes. Beauty itself never changes. We have the thought that these things are eternal, and indeed, beyond change, in contrast to the empirical world. In fact, if you start thinking more about the world from this perspective, the world we live in is crazy. It's almost insanely contradictory. Plato thinks of it as crazy in the way that a dream is. When you're caught up in the dream, you don't notice just how insane it all is. But if you step back and reflect on it, "Well, let's see, I was eating a sandwich and suddenly the sandwich was the Statue of Liberty, except the Statue of Liberty was my mother. And she's flying over the ocean, except she's really a piece of spaghetti." That's how dreams are. And when you're in it, it sort of all makes sense. Right? You're kind of caught up, but you step back and say, "That's just insane." Well, Plato thinks that the empirical world has something of that kind of insanity, something of that kind contradictoriness, built into it that we don't ordinarily notice. "He's a basketball player, so he's really, really tall, except he's only six feet. So he's really, really short for a basketball player. This is a baby elephant, so it's really, really big-- except it's a baby elephant, so it's really, really small." The world is constantly rolling-- this is a Platonic expression-- rolling between one form and the other. And it's hard to make sense of. In contrast, the mind is able to grasp the Platonic ideas, the Platonic forms; and they're stable, they're reliable, they are-- they're law-like and we can grasp them. They don't change; they're eternal. That's, as I say, the Platonic picture. Now, it's not my purpose here to try to argue for or against Platonism with regard to abstract entities. As I suggested in talking about the example of math last time, it's not a silly view, even if it's not a view that we all take automatically. But in thinking about math, most of us are inclined to be Platonists. We all do believe something makes it true that two plus one equals three, but it's not the fact that empirical objects-- We don't do empirical experiments to see whether two plus one equals three. Rather, we think our mind can grasp the truths about numbers. Plato thought everything was like that. Well, I'm not going to argue for and against that view-- just wanted to sketch it, so as to understand the arguments that turn on it. So for our purposes, let's suppose Plato was right about that and ask, what follows? Well, Plato thinks what's going to follow is that we have some reason to believe in the immortality of the soul as, again, as we indicated last time, the picture is that the mind--the soul-- is able to grasp these eternal Platonic forms, the ideas. Typically, we're distracted from thinking about them by the distractions provided by the body-- the desire for food, drink, sex, what have you, sleep. But by distancing itself from the body, the mind, the soul, is able to better concentrate on the forms. And if you're good at that, if you practice while you're alive, separating yourself from the body, then when your body dies, the mind is able to go up to this Platonic heavenly realm and commune with gods and other immortal souls and think about the forms. But if you've not separated yourself from the body while in life, if you're too enmeshed in its concerns, then upon the death of your body your soul will get sucked back in, reincarnated perhaps, in another body. If you're lucky, as another person; if you're not so lucky, as a pig or a donkey or an ant or what have you. So your goal, Plato says, your goal should be, in life, to practice death-- to separate yourself from your body. And because of this, Socrates, who's facing death, isn't distressed at the prospect, but happy. He's happy that the final separation will take place and he'll be able to go to heaven. The dialogue ends, of course, with the death scene-- Socrates has been condemned to death by the Athenians, and it ends with his drinking the hemlock, not distressed but rather sort of joyful. And the dialogue ends with one of the great moving death scenes in western civilization and as Plato says-- let's get the quote here exactly right-- "Of all those we have known, he was the best and also the wisest and the most upright." Just before the death scene, there's a long myth, which I draw your attention to but I don't want to discuss in any kind of detail. Plato says it's a story; it's a myth. He's trying to indicate that there are things that we can't really know in a scientific way but we can glimpse. And the myth has to do with these sort of pictures I was just describing where we don't actually live on the surface of the Earth of in the light, but rather live in certain hollows in the dark where we're mistaken about the nature of reality. Some of you who are maybe familiar with Plato's later dialogue The Republic may recognize at least what seems to me, what we have here, is a foreshadowing of the myth of the cave, or the allegory of the cave, which Plato describes there as well. Our concern is going to be the arguments that make up the center of the dialogue. Because in the center of the dialogue, before he dies, Socrates is arguing with his friends. Socrates is saying, "Look, I'm not worried. I'm going to live forever." And his disciples and friends are worried whether this is true or not. And so the heart of the dialogue consists of a series of arguments in which Socrates attempts to lay out his reasons for believing in the immortality of the soul. And that's going to be our concern. What I'm going to do is basically run through my attempt to reconstruct-- my attempt to lay out the basic ideas from this series of four or five arguments that Plato gives us. I'm going to criticize them. I don't think they work, though I want to remark before I turn to them that in saying this I'm not necessarily criticizing Plato. As we'll see, some of the later arguments seem to be deliberately aimed at answering objections that we can raise to some of the earlier arguments. And so it might well be that Plato himself recognized that the initial arguments aren't as strong as they need to be. Plato wrote the dialogues as a kind of learning device, as a tool to help the reader get better at doing philosophy. They don't necessarily represent in a systematic fashion Plato's worked out axiomatic views about the nature of philosophy. It could be that Plato's deliberately putting mistakes in earlier arguments so as to encourage you to think for yourself, "Oh, this is--here's a problem with this argument. There's an objection with that argument." Some of these, Plato then may address later on. But whether or not he does address them-- we're not doing Plato any honor, we're not doing him any service, if we limit ourselves to simply trying to grasp, here's what Plato thought. We could do the history of ideas and say, "Here's Plato's views. Aren't they interesting? Notice how they differ from Aristotle's views. Aren't they interesting?" And move on like that. But that's not what the philosophers wanted us to do. The great philosophers had arguments that they were putting forward to try to persuade us of the truths of their positions. And the way you show respect for a philosopher is by taking those arguments seriously and asking yourself, do they work or not? So whether or not the views that are being put forward in Socrates' mouth are the considered, reflective judgments of Plato or not, for our purposes we can just act as though they were the arguments being put forward by Plato, and we can ask ourselves, "Do these arguments work or don't they?" So I'm going to run through a series of these arguments. I'm going to, as I've mentioned before, be a bit more exegetical than is normally the case for our readings. I'm going to actually pause, periodically look at my notes and make sure I'm remembering how I think Plato understands the arguments. Of course, since the dialogue is indeed a dialogue, we don't always have the arguments laid out with a series of premises and conclusions. And so it's always a matter of interpretation, what's the best reconstruction of the argument he's gesturing towards. How can we turn it into an argument with premises and conclusions? Well, that's what I'm going to try to do for us. Also going to give the arguments names. These are not names that Plato gives, but it will make it easy for us to get a fix, roughly, on the different arguments as we move from one to the next. So the first argument, and the worry that gets the whole things going, is this. So, we've got this nice Platonic picture where Plato says, "All right. So the mind can grasp the eternal forms, but it has to free itself from the body to do that." And so, the philosopher, who has sort of trained himself to separate his mind from his body, to disregard his bodily cravings and desires-- the philosopher will welcome death because at that point he'll truly, finally, make the final break from the body. And the obvious worry that gets raised in the dialogue at this point is this: How do we know that when the death of the body occurs the soul doesn't get destroyed as well? That's the natural worry to have. Maybe what we need to do is separate ourselves as much as possible from the influence of our body without actually going all the way and breaking the connection. If you think about it like a rubber band, maybe the more we can stretch the rubber band the better; but if you stretch too far and the rubber band snaps, that's not good, that's bad. It could be that we need the body in order to continue thinking. We want to free ourselves from the distractions of the body, but we don't want the body to die, because when the body dies the soul dies as well. Even if we are dualists, as we've noticed before even if the soul is something different from the body it could still be the case, logically speaking, that if the body gets destroyed the soul gets destroyed as well. And so, Socrates' friends ask him, how can we be confident that the soul will survive the death of the body and indeed be immortal? And that's what prompts the series of arguments. Now, the first such argument I dub "The argument from the nature of the forms." And the basic thought is fairly straightforward. The ideas or the forms justice itself, beauty itself, goodness itself the forms are not physical objects. Right? We don't ever bump into justice itself. We bump into societies that may be more or less just, or individuals who may be more or less just, but we never bump into justice itself. The number three is not a physical object. Goodness itself is not a physical object. Perfect roundness is not a physical object. Now, roughly speaking, Socrates' seems to think it's going to follow straightforwardly from that that the soul must itself be something non-physical. If the forms are not physical objects, then Socrates thinks it follows they can't be grasped. We can certainly think about the forms, but if they're non-physical they can't be grasped by something physical like the body. They've got to be grasped by something non-physical--namely, the soul. But although that's, I think, the sketch of where Socrates wants to go, it doesn't quite give us what we want. On the one hand, even if it were true that the soul must be non-physical in order to grasp the non-physical forms, wouldn't follow that the soul will survive the death of the body. That's the problem we've been thinking about for the last minute. And there's something puzzling. We might wonder, well, just why is it that the body can't grasp the forms? So there's a fuller version of the argument that's the one I want to focus on. And indeed, I put it up on the board. So Platonic metaphysics gives us premise number one-- that ideas, forms, are eternal and they're non-physical. Two-- that which is eternal or non-physical can only be grasped by the eternal and the non-physical. Suppose we had both of those. It would seem to give us three, the conclusion we want-- that which grasps the ideas or the forms must be eternal or non-physical. What is it that grasps the ideas or the forms? Well, that's the soul. If that which grasps the ideas or the forms must be eternal/non-physical, well one thing we're going to get is, since that which grasps the forms must be non-physical, the soul is not the body. Since that which grasps the ideas or forms must be eternal or non-physical-- it's eternal, it's immortal. All right. Let's look at this again more carefully. Ideas or forms are eternal; they're non-physical. Well, I've emphasized the non-physical aspect, and I've emphasized as well that they're not changing. But perhaps it's worth taking a moment to emphasize the eternal aspect of the forms. Now, people may come and go, but perfect justice --the idea of perfect justice--that's timeless. Nothing that happens here on Earth can change or alter or destroy the number three. Two plus one equaled three before there were people; two plus one equals three now; two plus one will always equal three. The number three is eternal, as well as being non-physical. So the Platonic metaphysics says quite generally, if we're thinking about the ideas or the forms, the point to grasp is they're eternal; they're non-physical. The crucial premise since we're giving Plato number one the crucial premise for our purposes is premise number two. Is it or isn't it true that those things which are eternal or non-physical can only be grasped by something that is itself eternal and non-physical? Again, it does seem as though the conclusion that he wants, number three, follows from that. If we give him number two, it's going to follow that whatever's doing the grasping-- call that the soul since the soul is just Plato's word for our mind-- if whatever's doing the grasping of the eternal and non-physical forms must itself be eternal and non-physical, it follows that the soul must be non-physical. So the physicalist view is wrong and the soul must be eternal. The soul is immortal. So Socrates has what he wants, once we give him premise number two, that the eternal, non-physical can only be grasped by the eternal, non-physical. As Socrates puts it at one point, "The impure cannot attain the pure." Bodies--corruptible, destroyable, physical, passing-- whether they exist or not, whether they exist for a brief period and then they cease to exist-- these impure objects cannot attain, cannot grasp, cannot have knowledge of the eternal, changeless non-physical forms. " The impure cannot attain the pure." That's the crucial premise, and what I want to say is, as far as I can see there's no good reason to believe number two. Now, number two is not an unfamiliar-- premise number two is not an unfamiliar claim. I take it the claim basically is that, to put it in more familiar language it takes one to know one. Or to use it, slightly other kind of language that Plato uses at various points, "Likes are known by likes." But it takes one to know one is probably the most familiar way of putting the point. Plato's saying, "What is it that we know? Well, we know the eternal forms; takes one to know one. So we must ourselves be eternal." Unfortunately, this thought, popular as it may be, that it takes one to know one, just seems false. Think about some examples. Well, let's see, a biologist might study, or a zoologist might study, cats. Takes one to know one so the biologist must himself be a cat. Well, that's clearly false. You don't have to be feline to study the feline. Takes one to know one; so, you can't be a Canadian and study Mexicans, because it takes one to know one. Well, that's just clearly stupid. Of course the Canadians can study the Mexicans and the Germans can study the French. It does not take one to know one; to understand the truths about the French, you do not yourself need to be French. Or take the fact that some doctors study dead bodies. Aha! So to study and grasp things about dead bodies, corpses, you must yourself be a dead body. No, that certainly doesn't follow. So if we start actually pushing ourselves to think about examples-- does it really take one to know one--the answer is, at least as a general claim, it's not true. It doesn't normally take one to know one. Now, strictly speaking, that doesn't prove that premise two is false. It could still be that, although normally you don't have to be like the thing that you're studying in order to study it, although that's not normally true, it could be that in the particular case of non-physical objects, in the particular case of eternal objects, you do have to be eternal, non-physical to study them. It could be that even though the general claim, "It takes one to know one" Is false, the particular claim, "Eternal, non-physical can only be grasped by the eternal, non-physical," Maybe that particular claim is true. And it's only the particular claim that Plato needs. Still, all I can say is, why should we believe two? Why should we think there's some--Even though, normally, the barrier can be crossed and Xs can study the non-X, why should that barrier suddenly become un-crossable in the particular instance when we're dealing with Platonic forms? Give us some reason to believe premise two. I can't see any good reason to believe premise two, and as far as I can see, Plato doesn't actually give us any reason to believe it in the dialogue. Consequently, we have to say, as far as I can see, we haven't been given any adequate argument for the conclusion that the soul--which admittedly can think about forms and ideas-- we have no good reason yet to believe, to be persuaded, that the soul must itself be eternal and non-physical. That's the first argument. As I say though, Plato may well recognize the inadequacy of that argument, because after all Socrates goes on to offer a series of other arguments. So let's turn to the next. I call the second argument "The argument from recycling"-- not the best label I suppose, but I've never been able to come up with a better one. And the basic idea is that parts get re-used. Things move from one state to another state and then back to the first state. So, for example, to give an example that Plato actually gives in the dialogue, we are all awake now, but previously we were asleep. We went from being in the realm of the asleep to being in the realm of the awake, and we're going to return from the realm of the awake back to the realm of the asleep and over and over and over again. Hence, recycling. I think that actually a better example for Plato's purposes, not that I expect him to have this particular example, but, would be a car. Cars are made up of parts that existed before the car itself existed. There was the engine and the steering wheel and the tires and so forth. And these parts got assembled and put together to make up a car. So the parts of the car existed prior to the existence of the car itself. And the time is going to come when the car will cease to exist but its parts will still be around. Right? It'll get taken apart for parts, sold for parts. There will be the distributor cap, and there will be the tires, and there will be the carburetor, there will be the steering wheel. Hence, the name, that I dub the argument, "The argument from recycling." That's the nature of reality for Plato. And it seems like a plausible enough view. Things come into being by being composed of previously existing parts. And then, when those things cease to have the form they had, the parts get used for other purposes. They get recycled. If we grant that to Plato, he thinks we've got an argument for the immortality of the soul. Because after all, what are the parts that make us up? Well, there are the various parts of our physical body, but there's also our soul. Remember, as I said, in introducing the Phaedo, Plato doesn't so much argue for the existence of something separate, the soul, as presuppose it. His fundamental concern is to try to argue for the immortality of the soul. So he's just helping himself to the assumption that there is a soul. It's one of the parts that makes us, that goes up into making us up, goes into making us up. It's one of the pieces that constitutes us. Given the thesis about recycling, then, we have reason to believe the soul will continue to exist after we break. Even after our death, our parts will continue to exist. Our body continues to exist even after our death. Our soul will continue to exist. Well, there's a problem with the argument from recycling, and it's this. Even if the recycling thesis shows us that we're made up of something that existed before our birth and that some kinds of parts are going to have to exist after our death, we can't conclude that the soul is one of the parts that's going to continue to exist after our death. Consider some familiar facts about human bodies. As we nowadays know, human bodies are made up of atoms. And it's certainly true that the atoms that make up my body existed long before my body existed. And it's certainly true that after my death those atoms are going to continue to exist. So there's some--and will eventually get used to make something else. So Plato's certainly right about recycling as a fundamental truth. The things that make me up existed before, and will continue to exist after my death. But that doesn't mean that every part of my body existed before I was born, and that every part of my body will continue to exist after I die. Take my heart. My heart is a part of my body. Yet, for all that, it didn't exist before my body began to exist. It came into existence as part of, along with, the creation of my body, and it won't continue to exist, at least not very long, after the destruction of my body. There'll be a brief period in which, as a cadaver I suppose, my heart will continue to exist. But eventually my body will decompose. We certainly wouldn't have any grounds to conclude my heart is immortal, will exist forever. That just seems wrong. So even though it's true that some kind of recycling takes place, we can't conclude that everything that's now a part of me will continue to exist afterwards. It might not have been one of the parts, one of the fundamental parts from which I'm built, like the heart. And if that's right, if there can be parts that I have now that weren't one of the parts from which I was made, there's no particular reason to think it's going to be one of the parts that's going to continue to exist after I die. Once we see that kind of worry, we have to see, look, the same thing could be true for the soul. Even if there is an immortal soul-- Sorry. Even if there is a non-physical soul that's part of me, we don't yet have any reason to believe that it's one of the fundamental building blocks that were being recycled. We don't have adequate reason to conclude that it's something that existed before I was put together, it's something that will be recycled and continue to exist after I fall apart, after my body decomposes, after I'm separated from my body, or what have you. Even if recycling takes place, we don't have any good reason yet to believe that the soul is one of the recycled parts. So it seems to me "The argument from recycling," as I call it, is not successful either. Now, as I say, many times when you read the dialogue, this or other dialogues by Plato, it seems as though he's fully cognizant of the objections that at least an attentive reader will raise about earlier stages of the argument. Because sometimes the best way to understand a later argument is to see it as responding to the weaknesses of earlier arguments. And I think that's pretty clearly what's going on in the very next argument that comes up in the dialogue. The objection I just raised, after all, to the argument from recycling, said, in effect, even though some kind of recycling takes place, not all my parts get recycled, because not all of my parts were among the pre-existing constituent pieces from which I am built up. We don't have any particular reason to think my heart's one of the prior-existing pieces; we don't have any good reason to assume that my soul's one of the prior-existing pieces. Well, Plato's very next argument attempts to persuade us that indeed we do have reason to believe that the soul is one of the prior-existing pieces. And this argument is known as "The argument from recollection." The idea is, he's going to tell us certain facts that need explaining, and the best explanation involves a certain fact about recollecting, or a certain claim about recollecting or remembering. But we can only remember, he thinks, in the relevant way if our soul existed before the birth of our body, before the creation of our body. All right. What's the crucial fact? Well, let's start by-- Plato starts by telling us, reminding us of what it is to remember something. Or perhaps a better word would be what is it to be reminded of something by something else that resembles it but is not the thing it reminds you of. I might have a photograph of my friend Ruth. And looking at the photograph reminds me of Ruth. It brings Ruth to mind. I start thinking about Ruth. I remember various things I know about Ruth. The photograph is able to do that, is able to trigger these thoughts. But of course, the photograph is not Ruth. Right? Nobody would--who's thinking clearly-- would confuse the photograph with my friend. But the photograph resembles Ruth. It resembles Ruth well enough to remind me of her, and interestingly, it can do that even if it's not a very good photograph. You might hold up the photograph and I might say, "Gosh, that really doesn't look very much like Ruth does it?" Even though I see that it is a photograph of Ruth; it reminds me of her. Now, how could it be that a photograph reminds me of my friend? Well, this isn't some deep mystery. Presumably the way it works is, as I just said, it looks sort of like her. It doesn't have to look very much like her. It looks sort of like her. Your young brother or sister, or my little children, can draw pictures of family members that barely look like family members. My niece drew a picture of my family once when she was three. It didn't look very much like us at all, but we could sort of see the resemblance in a vague kind of way, right? So it's got to look at least somewhat like the missing friend. But that's not enough. You've never met Ruth, let's suppose. I hold up the photograph without having told you anything about her. The photograph's not going to remind you of Ruth. Why not? Well, you don't know Ruth. So the pieces we need are not only an image of Ruth, even if an imperfect image of Ruth, we also need some prior acquaintance with Ruth. That's pretty much what it takes, right? So on the one hand--temporal sequence-- first you know Ruth, you meet Ruth, you get to know Ruth. Then at a later time you're shown an image of Ruth-- maybe not even an especially good image of Ruth-- but good enough to remind you. And suddenly, you're remembering things you know about Ruth. That's how recollection works. All right. Now, Plato points out that we all know things about the Platonic forms. But the Platonic forms, as we also know, are not to be found in this world. The number three is not a physical object, perfect roundness is not a physical object, perfect goodness is not a physical object. We can think about these things; our mind can grasp them, but they're not to be found in this world. Yet, various things that we do find in this world get us thinking about those things. I look at the plate on my kitchen table, it's not perfectly round, it's got imperfections; but suddenly I start thinking about circles, perfectly round objects. I look at somebody who's pretty. He or she is not perfectly beautiful, but suddenly I start thinking about the nature of beauty itself. Ordinary objects in the world participate to a greater or lesser degree in the Platonic forms. That's Plato's picture of metaphysics. And we bump up against, we look at, we have interactions with these everyday objects and, somehow, they get us thinking about the Platonic forms themselves. How does it happen? Plato has a theory. He says, "These things remind us of the Platonic forms." We see something that's beautiful to some degree, and it reminds us of perfect beauty. We see something that's more or less round, and it reminds us of perfect circularity. We see somebody who's fairly decent morally, and it reminds us of perfect justice or perfect virtue. It's just like the photograph, perhaps the not very good photograph, that reminds me of my friend Ruth.All right. Well, there's an explanation of how it could be that things that are not themselves perfectly round could remind us, could make us think about perfect roundness. But then Plato says, "Okay, but keep in mind all of what you need in order to have reminding, to have recollecting take place." In order for the photograph to remind me of Ruth, I have to already have met Ruth. I have to already be acquainted with her. In order for a more or less round plate to remind me of roundness, Plato says, I have to have already met perfect roundness itself. In order for a more or less just society to remind me of justice itself, so that I can start thinking about the nature of justice itself, I have to somehow have already been acquainted with perfect justice. But how and when did it happen? Not in this life, not in this world. In this world nothing is perfectly round, nothing is perfectly beautiful, nothing is perfectly just. So it's got to have happened before. If seeing the photograph of my friend now can remind me of my friend, it's got to be because I met my friend before. If seeing things that participate in the forms remind me of the forms, it's got to be because I've met or been acquainted directly with the forms before. But you don't bump up against, you don't meet, you don't see or grasp or become directly acquainted with, the forms in this life. So it's got to have happened before this life. That's Plato's argument. Plato says, thinking about the way in which we grasp the forms helps us to see that the soul must have existed before birth, in the Platonic heavenly realm, directly grasping, directly communing with, directly understanding the forms. It's not taking place in this life, so it has to have happened before. Now we've got the kind of argument we were looking for. Earlier the objection was, We had no good reason to think the soul was one of the building blocks from which we're composed; we have no good reason to think it's one of the pieces that was around before our body got put together, before our birth. Socrates says, "No. On the contrary, we do have reason, based on the argument from recollection, to conclude that the soul was around before we were born." All right. So the next question is, is the argument from recollection a good one? Now, let's say, I'm not really much concerned with whether this was an argument that Plato thought worked or not. Our question is, do we think it works or not? Although this is a form of an argument that Plato does put forward in other dialogues as well, and so it strikes me so there's at least some reason to think this is an argument that he felt might well be right. The crucial premise--Again, we're going to just grant Plato the metaphysics. The crucial question is going to be, is it right that in order to explain how it is we could have knowledge of the forms now that we have to appeal to a prior existence in which we had direct acquaintance? It's not obvious to me that that's true. It's not obvious to me for a couple of reasons. One question is this: Is it really true that in order to think about the perfectly straight, I must have somehow, somewhere at some point come up against, had direct knowledge of, the perfectly straight? Isn't it enough for me to extrapolate from cases that I do come up against in this life? I come across things that are bent; I come across things that are more straight, more and more straight. Can't my mind take off from there and push straight ahead to the idea of the perfectly straight, even if I never have encountered it before? Let me stop with this idea. Even if Plato is right, that we need to have acquaintance with the Platonic forms themselves in order to think about them, and even if Plato is right that we never get the acquaintance in this world, in the interaction with ordinary physical objects, why couldn't it be that our acquaintance with the Platonic forms comes about in this life for the very first time? That's the question, or that's the objection, that we'll turn to at the start of next class. 



 Chapter 7: 柏拉图 (三) ：灵魂永恒与否的论证（续）


We've been looking at Plato's arguments for the immortality of the soul, and so far I have to say I haven't found them very compelling arguments. In a minute, I'm going to turn to an argument that at least strikes me as more interesting. It's more difficult to pin down where it goes wrong. But before we do, I want to make a couple of comments about the arguments we were considering at the end of last class. That was the argument from recollection. You recall the basic idea was that although objects in the ordinary familiar empirical world are not perfectly just, perfectly round, what have you, they're able to remind us of perfect justice, perfect roundness and the like. And when Plato asked himself, "How could that be?" the answer he gives is, "Well, it's got to be that we were previously acquainted with the forms before our life in this world." And that shows that the soul must be something that existed prior to the creation of the body. That's the argument from recollection. And at the very end of class I suggested that, look, even if we were to grant to Plato that in order to think about justice,circularity, what have you, we had to somehow grasp the forms, and even if we were to grant to Plato that nothing in this world is perfectly round or perfectly just, it's not necessarily correct to say, "So the only possible explanation of what's going on is that these things in the empirical world remind us of our prior acquaintance with the forms." It could be that what goes on is, when we bump up against something that's partially just or partially beautiful or partially round-- imperfectly round--what happens is, those things sort of trigger our minds in such a way that we begin to think about the forms for the very first time. So it might be, in order to think about justice and roundness, we have to grasp the forms. But it could be that we only grasp the forms in this life, for the very first time. Exposure to the things that participate in the forms may nudge our minds or our souls in such a way that at that point--given that exposure--we begin to grasp the forms. It's as though the ordinary earthly objects, we bump into them or they bump into us, and they get us to look upwards to the heavenly Platonic realm. I don't mean literally upwards. It's not as though these things--the number three-- is up there. But if you accept the metaphor, running into things in the empirical world gets our minds to start thinking about, for the first time, the heavenly realm of the Platonic forms and ideas. That would be just as likely a possibility as the alternative explanation that what's going on is that ordinary empirical objects are reminding us of our prior acquaintance. Perhaps these ordinary objects act like letters of introduction, getting us to, helping us to, think about the forms for the very first time. Well, if that's right, then of course, we don't have any good reason to follow Plato when he says, "It must be the case that the soul existed prior to the--prior to birth." Now, the objection I've just raised is not an objection that Plato raises in the Phaedo, but he does raise a different objection. Remember our concern isn't, strictly speaking, with the question, "Did the soul exist before our birth? Did the soul exist before our bodies?" but rather, "Is the soul immortal?" And so, having now given the argument from recollection, Plato envisions two of Socrates' disciples, Simmias and Cebes, responding, objecting, by saying, "Look, even if the soul existed before birth, it doesn't follow that it exists after death. And that's, after all, what we really want, are wondering about. We want to know, will we survive our deaths? Is the soul immortal? And you haven't yet shown that Socrates," they object. Could be that it existed before, but won't exist afterwards. But very nicely-- it's quite elegant structure at this point-- Socrates puts together the two arguments that we've just been rehearsing-- the argument from recollection and the argument that came before that, the one that I dubbed "the argument from recycling." Remember, the argument from recycling says, when you build something, you build it out of parts, and when that thing falls apart you go back to the parts. So the prior parts get recycled. The soul, we now say-- based on the argument from recollection-- the soul is one of our prior parts. The soul existed before we were put together, or before we were put together with our bodies. If you then combine the argument from recycling and say, the parts that existed before are going to exist afterwards, it must follow that if the soul existed before, it will exist afterwards as well. And so we've got the immortality of the soul after all. Now, bracket the fact that, as I just explained, I don't myself find the argument from recollection persuasive. I don't think we've got any good reason to believe-- based on the sort of things that Plato is drawing our attention to-- I don't think we've got any good reason to believe that the soul existed before we were born. But even if we grant him that, we shouldn't be so quick to conclude, on the basis of combining the argument from recollection and the argument from recycling, that the soul will continue to exist after the death of our bodies. After all, take a more familiar, humdrum example. Cars are built out of non-cars, right? Cars get built out of engines and tires and steering wheels. And the engine is not a car; the steering wheel is not a car. So you build the car out of its parts. Now, the engine is a prior-existing part. So can we conclude then that from the fact that-- argument from recycling: parts get reused, get rebuilt, when cars get destroyed, the parts are still around-- can we conclude from the argument from recycling and the fact that the engine is a prior-existing part from which the car was built, that the engine will continue to exist forever after the destruction of the car? No, obviously you can't conclude that at all. Sometimes when cars get destroyed the engine gets destroyed right along with it. And of course, even if-- in many cases-- the engine continues to exist for a while after the destruction of the car, it certainly doesn't follow that the engine is immortal, that it continues to exist forever. Engines will eventually decompose and turn back into atoms. So from the mere fact that the engine was a part that existed before the car existed, and the further fact that when the car breaks down, it decomposes back into parts, it certainly doesn't follow that all of the parts that existed prior to the existence of the car will be around forever. That would just be false. So even if we were to give Socrates the assumption that-- the thesis that-- the soul existed before we were put together, before we were born, it still wouldn't follow that the soul will continue to exist after we're taken back apart. The soul might eventually decay just like the engine will eventually decay. What we need, to really become convinced of the immortality of the soul, is not the mere suggestion, even it was-- even if we were convinced-- is not the mere suggestion that the soul was around before our birth. We need to believe that the soul, unlike an engine, can't itself be destroyed, can't itself decompose, can't fall apart. That's what we need if we're really going to become convinced of the immortality of the soul. Now, as I remarked previously, one of the amazing things-- not amazing but one of the really attractive things about Plato's dialogues is, you raise an objection and it often seems as though Plato himself, whether or not he explicitly states the objection, seems aware of the objection, because he'll go on to say something that is responsive to it. And again, that makes sense if you think of these dialogues as a kind of pedagogical tool to help you get better at philosophizing. So the very next argument that Plato turns to can be viewed, I think, as responding to this unstated objection-- well, I stated it, but Plato doesn't state it in the dialogue-- the worry that even if the soul was one of the parts, even if the soul was already around before we were born, how do we know it can't come apart? How do we know the soul can't be destroyed? Since what we want to know is whether the soul is immortal, how do we know it can't break? Plato's next argument then tries to deal directly with this worry, and it's a quite interesting argument. I'll give it another-- a new label-- I'll call it the "argument from simplicity." Socrates turns to a discussion of what kinds of things can break and what kinds of things can't break; what kinds of things can be destroyed, and what kinds of things can't be destroyed. He thinks about examples; he surveys examples and tries to extract a kind of metaphysical principle from this. And then, as we'll see, he's going to use this principle to convince us-- or to try to convince us--that the soul is immortal, it's indestructible. Well, lots of things can be destroyed. Here's a piece of paper. It can be destroyed [sound of ripping paper] Right? Why was it that this was the sort of thing that could be destroyed? Well, the straightforward answer is the piece of paper had parts. And in breaking it, in ripping it, what I literally did was I ripped one part from another. To destroy the piece of paper, I take its parts apart. Here's piece of chalk. The piece of chalk can be broken. What am I doing? Taking its parts apart. The kinds of things that can be destroyed have parts. They are composite. They are composed of their parts. Bodies can be destroyed because you can take a sword to it and go sweep, sweep, sweep and chop it into pieces. Composite things can be destroyed. Things that have parts can be destroyed. Now, what kind of things can't be destroyed? Well, it won't surprise you that when Plato looks for an example of something that's eternal and indestructible, his mind immediately starts thinking about the Platonic forms. Take the number three. The number three can't be destroyed, right? Even if nuclear explosion took place and everything on Earth got atomized and destroyed through some bizarre science fiction chain reaction, like they're always doing in movies, the number three wouldn't be touched. The number three wouldn't be fazed. It would still be true that three plus one equals four. You can't hurt the number three. You can't alter or destroy perfect circularity. Why not? Well, it doesn't have any parts. That's the thought. Things like the Platonic forms are eternal, and they're eternal, changeless, and indestructible, because they are simple-- simple here being the metaphysical notion that they're not composed of anything. Anything that's built up out of parts you could, at least in principle, worry about the parts coming apart and, hence, the thing being destroyed. But anything that's simple can't be destroyed in that way. It has no parts to take apart. So the kinds of things that can be destroyed are the things with parts, and those are the sorts of things that change, right? Even if they're not destroyed, what's a tip off to something being composite? The fact that it changes. Suppose I take a bar of metal and I bend it. I haven't destroyed it, but I've changed it. I'm able to change it by rearranging the relationships between the various parts. My body is constantly changing because the relationships between my arms and my head and so forth, my muscles are moving. You rearrange the parts, the thing changes. Oh, but that means it's got parts and could be destroyed. So we've got some nice generalizations. Things that change have parts; things with parts can be destroyed. What are the kinds of things that you can change and destroy? Those are the familiar empirical objects that we can see: pieces of paper, bodies, pieces of chalk, bars of metal. In contrast, on the whole other side, you've got things that are invisible, like the number three-- nobody sees the number three--things that are invisible, that never change. The number three never changes, right? The number three is an odd number. It's not as though, oh, today it's odd but maybe tomorrow it'll be even. It's eternally an odd number. Three plus one equals four today, yesterday and forever. These facts about the number three will never change. The number three is changeless. So the forms are eternal; they're invisible; they are changeless. They're simple, and simple things can't be destroyed; forms can't be destroyed. You put all this together; these are the sorts of thoughts that Socrates assembles, and I've got the initial thoughts up there on the board. [See Figure 8.1] All right. So premise number one, only composite things can be destroyed. Premise number two, only changing things are composite. So if you put one and two together, you'd get: only changing things could be destroyed. And now add three, invisible things don't change. Well, if you've got to be the kind of thing that can change in order to be composite and you've got to be composite in order to be destroyed, invisible things don't change, follows four, invisible things can't be destroyed. That's the metaphysical thesis that Socrates comes to by thinking about cases. And that's the crucial premise or sub-conclusion for the immortality of the soul, because then Socrates invites us to think about the soul. Is the soul visible or invisible? He says, pretty obviously, "it's invisible." But if invisible things can't be destroyed, the soul can't be destroyed. So one, two and three got us four, invisible things can't be destroyed, but five, the soul is invisible so six, the soul can't be destroyed. That's my best attempt at reconstructing the argument from simplicity. It's not as though Plato himself spells it out with premises and conclusions like that, but I think this is fairly faithful to the kind of argument he means to put forward. And in a moment I'll turn to evaluating whether that's a good argument or not. But I think it's a pretty interesting argument; it's an argument worth taking fairly seriously. Except, I've got to confess to you that Socrates doesn't quite conclude the way I would've thought he would've concluded. So I've had the argument conclude six, the soul can't be destroyed. But what Socrates actually says is-- his actual conclusion is-- "And so the soul is indestructible or nearly so." That's rather an odd qualification, "or nearly so." The conclusion that Socrates reaches from his examination of change and invisibility and so forth and so on, and compositeness versus simplicity, is that "the soul is indestructible or nearly so." Now, adding that qualification opens the door to a worry. The worry gets raised by Cebes who says, even if we grant that the soul is nearly indestructible, that's not good enough to get us immortality. And he gives a very nice analogy of somebody who's-- a coat, which could outlast the owner but isn't immortal. Or the owner could go through several coats; but still at some point the owner's going to die as well. The owner is far more immortal, in that sense, closer to immortality. And I've gone through many coats in my life, but for all that, I'm not indestructible. If all we've got is the mere fact that the soul is "nearly" indestructible, it takes a whole lot more work to destroy it, maybe it lasts a whole lot longer; maybe it goes through a whole lot of bodies being reincarnated a half-dozen, or a dozen, or hundred times before it wears out and gets destroyed. That's not enough to give us the immortality of the soul. That's the objection that Cebes raises. And one of the oddities is that, as far as I can see, Socrates never responds to that objection. Raises the objection-- that is, Plato raises the objection in the voice of Cebes-- but Socrates, on Plato's behalf, never answers the objection. It's hard to say what exactly is going on. It might be that Plato's worried that he hasn't really shown that the soul is immortal afterwards. Maybe this argument from simplicity isn't really as good as it needs to be. And maybe that explains why Plato then goes on to offer yet another argument. After all, if this argument really did show the immortality of the soul, why would he need to offer a further argument? The argument from essential properties, which we'll be turning to later. So maybe Plato just thought there wasn't a good answer to Cebes' objection. But I want to say, on Plato's behalf, or at least on behalf of the argument, Socrates should never have concluded the argument with this odd qualifying phrase that the soul is "indestructible or nearly so." He should've just said the soul is indestructible, full stop. After all, if we have premises one, two, and three-- only composite things can be destroyed, only changing things are composite, invisible things don't change-- if you put those together, you get four, invisible things can't be destroyed. You don't get the more modest conclusion, "invisible things can't be destroyed or it's a whole lot harder to destroy them." If we've got one, two and three, we're entitled to the bold conclusion: "invisible things can't be destroyed, period." Full stop. And then if five is true, if the soul really is invisible, we're entitled to conclude six, the soul can't be destroyed-- not, the soul can't be destroyed, or if it can be destroyed it's very, very hard and takes a very, very long time. We are, rather, entitled to the bolder conclusion, the soul can't be destroyed, full stop, period, end of the discussion. So despite the fact that Socrates draws this weaker conclusion, it seems to me that the argument he's offered us, if it works at all, entitles us to draw the bolder conclusion. Not that the soul is indestructible or nearly so, but that the soul is indestructible. Well, maybe Plato realized that; maybe that's the reason why he doesn't bother giving an answer to Cebes. Maybe it's an invitation to the reader to recognize that there's a better argument here than even the characters in the drama have noticed--don't know, don't know what Plato had in mind. But at any rate, our question shouldn't be, "What was Plato thinking?" but, "Is the argument any good?" Do we now have an argument for the immortality of the soul? After all, if the soul can't be destroyed, it's immortal. Is it a good argument or not? Simmias raises a different objection. Simmias says we can't conclude that the soul is indestructible, or nearly so, or whatever, because we should not believe the sub-conclusion four, invisible things can't be destroyed. Simmias says invisible things can be destroyed. And if that's true, then of course we no longer have an argument for the indestructibility or near indestructibility of the soul. Because even if the soul is invisible, five, if nonetheless, contrary to what Socrates was claiming, invisible things can be destroyed, then maybe the invisible soul can be destroyed as well. Now, Simmias doesn't merely assert, boldly, invisible things can be destroyed. He offers an example of an invisible thing that can be destroyed--harmony. He starts talking about the harmony that gets produced by a stringed instrument; let's say a harp. In fact, he says, this is a very nice example for us to think about because some people have suggested--Simmias says-- some people have suggested that the mind is like harmony. It's as though the mind is like harmony of the body. So to spell out the analogy a bit more fully, and I'll say a bit more about it later, harmony is to the harp as the mind is to the body. He says, there are people who put forward views like this, and at any rate harmony can certainly be destroyed. You don't see harmony, right? Harmony is invisible. But for all that, you can destroy harmony. So there's the harp making its melodious, harmonious sounds, and then you take an ax to the harp, bang, bang, bang, chop, chop, chop, or a hammer or whatever; now the harmony's been destroyed. So even though it's invisible, you can destroy it by destroying the musical instrument on which it depends. And of course, there's the worry, right? If the mind is like the harmony of the body, then maybe you could destroy the mind, the soul, by destroying the body on which the mind depends. So the crucial point right now is that thinking about harmony is offered as a counterexample to the generalization that invisible things can't be destroyed. Harmony is invisible. Harmony can be destroyed. So invisible things can be destroyed. So you're wrong, Socrates, when you say invisible things can't be destroyed. So even if we grant that the soul is invisible as well, maybe the soul also is an invisible thing that can be destroyed. That's a great objection. It's an objection worth taking very seriously. And the oddity is, Socrates doesn't respond to it in the way that he should have, in the way that he needed to. Socrates instead spends some time worrying about the question, "Is the soul really like harmony or not?" Is this metaphor-- think about the relationship between the mind and body as similar to the relationship between harmony and a harp--Socrates spends some time criticizing that analogy. Now, in a few minutes I'll turn to the question, what about Socrates' criticisms of the analogy? Are they good criticisms or not? But even if they are good criticisms, I want to say, that's not good enough to help your argument Socrates. Even if we were to say, you know what? The mind isn't very much like harmony at all. That analogy really stinks. So what? All that Simmias needs to cause problems for Socrates' argument is the claim that harmony is invisible and harmony can be destroyed. As long as that is true, we can't continue to believe that invisible things can't be destroyed. So what Socrates needs to do is to say either harmony can't be destroyed, but pretty obviously it can, the melodious sounds coming out of an instrument can be destroyed. So he would need to argue then, perhaps, that harmony is not really invisible. If he could show us, if he could convince us, that harmony is not really invisible, then we would no longer have a counterexample to the claim that the invisible can't be destroyed, and the argument could still then proceed as it was before. So that's what Socrates should have done. He should have said, "You know what? Harmony is not really invisible," or "It can't be destroyed." But there's not a whiff of that, at least in the dialogue as we've got it, not a whiff of that as far as I can see. Socrates never says, "Simmias, here is where your objection goes wrong. Harmony is not really invisible, can't really be destroyed, whatever it is. So we don't really have a counterexample." Instead, he gets hung up on this question, "Is it a good analogy? Is it a good way for thinking about the mind or not?" But even if it isn't, that wouldn't save the argument. Now, I am going to take some time to think about whether or not harmony is a good analogy, because I actually think it is a good analogy. I think what's going on in the harmony-- the suggestion that we should think about the mind like harmony, as though it was the harmony of the body-- is an early attempt to state the physicalist view. Talk about the mind, says the physicalist, is just a way of talking about the body. Or, more carefully, it's a way of talking about certain things the body can do when it's functioning properly, when it's well tuned, Just like, talk about the harmony or the melodious sounds or what have you of the harp, is a way-- these things are a way of talking about what things the harp can do. It can produce melodious, harmonious sounds when it's functioning properly, when it's well tuned. So the harmony analogy is, I think, an attempt, and not a bad attempt, at gesturing towards the question, how do physicalists think about the mind? Now, when I tried to get you to grasp how physicalists think about the mind, I used examples about computers and robots and the like. Well, it's not remotely surprising that Plato doesn't use those kinds of analogies. He doesn't have computers; he doesn't have robots. Still, he has physical objects that can do things. And the ability to do things depends on the proper functioning of the physical object. And so, I think he can see that there's this alternative to his dualism. He can see you could be a physicalist and say that the mind is dependent on the body; the mind is just a way of talking about what the body can do when it's working properly. It's dependent just the same way that, well, for example, harmony is dependent upon the physical instrument. So I think it's a very nice attempt to discuss the physicalist alternative to Plato's dualism. And that's why it will be worth taking some time to ask ourselves, well, what about Plato's objections then? If he can convince us that the soul is not like harmony of the body, maybe that will be some sort of problem for the physicalists. So I'll come back to that in a few more minutes. But first, let's worry about the point that I was emphasizing earlier, namely, even if the soul's not very much like harmony, so what? If harmony really is invisible and harmony really can be destroyed, then invisible things can be destroyed. Even if the soul's nothing like-- that's not a good analogy for thinking about the physicalist position or what have you-- so what? If some invisible things can be destroyed and harmony is an example of that, then, by golly, it's going to follow that we can't conclude from the invisibility of the soul that the soul cannot be destroyed. So even though Socrates doesn't respond to that objection, we need to ask on Socrates' behalf, is there a possible answer to this objection? And I think there are at least the beginnings of one. We have to ask: when we say, "invisible things can't be destroyed," what did we mean by "invisible?" And I want to distinguish three different possible interpretations, three different claims. So invisible means, one, there's one possibility, can't be seen. Two, different possibility, can't be observed. Three, different possible interpretation of invisible, can't be detected. What we have to ask ourselves is, when Socrates puts his argument forward, which of these did he have in mind? First, let's be clear on how these things are different. Some things can't be seen but can be sensed some other way. So colors can be seen; smells cannot be seen, but of course smells-- the smell of coffee--can be sensed through the five senses. Sounds can't be seen, they're not visible, but for all that they can be sensed. You can hear them through your ears. So, without getting hung up on what does the English word "invisible" mean, let's just notice that there's a difference between saying "it can't be seen through the eyes" and "can't be observed through one sense or the other." And then three is a different notion altogether, a stronger notion altogether. There might be things that can't even be detected through any of the five senses. The number three-- not only can't I see it, I can't taste it, I can't hear it, I can't smell it, can't touch it, right? The number three is invisible in this much bolder way. It can't be detected at all by the five senses-- can't be detected in terms of its-- it doesn't leave traces behind, right? I don't see dinosaurs, but of course they leave traces behind in fossils. There's a way in which you can talk about it being detected by its effects. All right. So again, don't get hung up on what does the English word invisible mean. Let's just ask ourselves, what notion of invisibility-- if we'll use the word between these three ways-- what notion did Socrates' argument turn on? Well, the most natural way to start by interpreting him is with number one. When he says, "Invisible things don't change," what he means is, things that you can't see don't change, and so--continue to interpret invisible in number four the same way-- invisible things can't be destroyed. On the first interpretation what he'd be saying is, "If you can't see it with your eyes, it can't be destroyed." Now, the trouble is, harmony shows that that's not so. Harmony is indeed invisible in sense number one. You cannot see it with your eyes. But for all that, it can be destroyed. So if what Socrates means by invisibility is the first notion, can't been seen with your eyes, then the argument's not any good. Harmony is a pretty compelling counterexample. But maybe that's not what Socrates means by invisible. Maybe instead of one, he means two. When he talks about the soul being invisible and invisible things being indestructible, maybe he means things that can't be observed through any of your five senses. Now, in point of fact, i think that is what he meant. Let me just give a quick quote. In our edition, this is page 29. Some of you may have noticed that there are little standardized paginations in our edition as well. So it's in the academy paginations, number 79; he's talking about the difference between the visible and the invisible things, chairs versus the forms. And he says, "These latter, chairs, trees, stones, you could touch and see and perceive with the other senses. But those that always remain the same, the forms, can only be grasped by the reasoning power of the mind. They are not seen but are invisible." So I think it's pretty clear that when Socrates starts talking about what's visible versus invisible, he doesn't mean to limit himself to vision; he means to be talking about all of the five senses. So when we say--when he says-- "Invisible things can't be destroyed," he means the things that you can't see or touch or hear or feel-- whatever it is-- see, touch, smell, taste. Those things can't be destroyed. Now, notice that if that's the way we interpret his argument, harmony no longer works as a counterexample. Harmony was invisible when we meant definition number one, can't be seen. But it's not invisible if we mean definition number two, can't be sensed, can't be observed. Harmony can be sensed through the ears, in which case it's not a counterexample. It's not a counterexample to four. Four says, "Invisible things can't be destroyed." And what Socrates should have said is, harmony is not invisible in the relevant sense of invisible, since it can be sensed. But--and this would be the crucial point--notice, Socrates should've continued, the soul is invisible in that sense. You don't see the soul; you don't taste the soul; you don't touch the soul; you don't hear the soul. So if we understand the argument in terms of the second interpretation of invisible, it looks as though the argument still goes through. Simmias' counterexample fails. Harmony is not invisible in the relevant sense, so it could still be true that invisible things can't be destroyed. Since the soul is invisible in that sense, it would follow that the soul can't be destroyed. However, even if Simmias' objection, his particular counterexample, harmony, fails, that doesn't mean that we should still accept the argument because there might be a different counterexample. So here's my proposal. Suppose we think not about harmony but radio waves. Radio waves are not sensible. They are not observable. You don't see a radio wave. You can't touch a radio wave; you can't smell a radio wave, and interestingly enough, you can't hear radio waves. But of course, for all that, they can be destroyed. So even if we grant that what Socrates meant by invisible was "cannot be observed," we still have to say, with Simmias, "You know, four is just not true. Some invisible things can be destroyed." Radio waves can be destroyed even though they're invisible in the relevant sense. Yeah? Question? Okay. So the suggestion was, radio waves are a bit like the forms. They're not forms, but they're perfect in that way. Was that the thought? Ah! Okay, I misunderstood. So the question is rather, "Look, radio waves are not like forms," to which the answer is "Yes, that's exactly the problem." They are invisible, like the forms, but unlike the forms they're destructible. And that's precisely why we've got to worry about the soul. Is the soul invisible in the way the forms are, being indestructible, or is it invisible in the way that radio waves are, destructible? Now again, my point here is not to say, "Oh, you idiot, Plato! Why didn't you think of radio waves?" Our question is not, was Plato overlooking something he should've thought of? It's, does his argument work or not? Is it true that the invisible things can't be destroyed? And it seems to me that some things that are invisible in the relevant sense, radio waves being an example of that, can be destroyed. So even though the soul is also invisible in the relevant sense, maybe it can be destroyed as well. Now, the answer, it seems to me, the only answer I can imagine Socrates or Plato giving at this point, is to say, "Look, I need a different definition of invisible. Not two, but three. Don't talk about what we can sense; talk about what we can detect." Radio waves can be detected, right? After all, radios do that. You turn on your radio, the radio wave's passing by, boom-- properly tuned, you detect it. It turns it into these sounds that we can hear. We can detect radio waves on the basis of their effects on radios, among other things. So maybe by invisible he should've moved to this stronger, bolder definition of invisible. Let's call something invisible not only if it can't seen, not only if it can't be observed, but if it can't be detected at all. Look, the forms, after all, can't be detected. There's no radio for the number three that will tell-- There's no Geiger counter to tell you the number three is nearby or something, right? So Plato could still insist things that are invisible, in the sense of undetectable, can't be destroyed. But radio waves, they're detectable. So they're not a counterexample, now that we interpret the relevant notion of invisibility as undetectability. So couldn't Plato continue to claim, things that are fully invisible, meaning undetectable, those things can't be destroyed. Radio waves aren't a counterexample to that. I think maybe Plato could say that. But, if we give him four, where we read invisible as meaning utterly undetectable, it's no longer so clear to me that we can give him five. Is the soul invisible? Well, it was, when by invisibility we meant can't be seen; it was, when by invisibility we meant can't be tasted or touched or heard or smelled. But is it still invisible if by invisibility we mean can't be detected? Is it true that the soul can't be detected? I've got to say, I think it's no longer right. Once we interpret invisibility that way, the soul is detectable in just the way-- not literally just the way, but in something similar to the way-- that radio waves are detectable. If you hook a radio wave up with a radio, you can tell the radio is-- radio wave--was there because of what the radio's doing, giving off these sounds. If you hook a soul up to a body, you can tell the soul is there by what the body is doing, discussing philosophy with you. You detect the presence of your friend's soul through its effects on your friend's body. But that means the soul isn't really undetectable. But if the soul's not really undetectable, it's not really invisible in the relevant sense. And if it's not really invisible, then even if there is a notion of invisible, such that things that are invisible in that sense can't be destroyed, the soul's not invisible in that sense. I've gone over this argument at such length because-- I hope it's clear-- I think it's a pretty interesting argument. The argument from simplicity is quite fascinating. The idea that you couldn't break the soul if it didn't have parts, and the way to tell that it doesn't have parts is because it's invisible, because invisible things can't have parts, that's a quite difficult argument to pin down, does it work or does it not work. But I think, as we think it all through, we have to conclude it doesn't work. 



 Chapter 8: 柏拉图 (四) ：灵魂永恒与否的论证（续）


We've been working our way through Plato's arguments for the immortality of the soul. And last time I spent a fair bit of time working through objections to, not quite the last argument we're going to look at, but the penultimate argument, in which Plato tries to argue for the simplicity of the soul. The set of connected ideas, you'll recall, were these: that Plato wants to suggest that in order to be destroyed you've got to have parts; to destroy something is to basically sort of take its parts apart. If he could only convince us that the soul was simple, it would follow that it was indestructible and, hence, immortal. He asks, what's our evidence for some things being indestructible? What kinds of things are simple? Well, these are-- he then goes on to claim--invisible things, things that don't change. After all, changing is a matter of the rearrangement of the parts. And so, if something can change, it can't be simple. Maybe it could be destroyed. But if we could become convinced that the soul was not composite, if it was something that couldn't change, then it would simple. Perhaps then it would indestructible. And then he goes on to suggest that the invisibility of the soul is evidence for it's being changeless, and hence simple, and hence indestructible. So that's the argument we worked through last time. And I spent a fair bit of time suggesting that if you pin down precisely what Plato means by invisible, the argument doesn't actually go through. Before leaving that argument, there are a couple of extra remarks I want to make about it. First, we probably shouldn't have been so quick to want to buy into the suggestion that the soul is changeless. After all, if you think about it, it seems that at least on the face of it the soul does indeed change. On one day you believe, for example, that it's hot; on another day you believe that it's cold. On one day you believe that so and so is a nice person; on the next day you believe that so and so is a mean person. You desire to learn the piano, the next day you give up on that desire. Your beliefs, your goals, your intentions, your desires-- these things are all constantly changing. And so, at least on the face of it, it looks as though we might well want to say the soul-- if we do believe there are souls-- the soul is changing as well, in terms of what thoughts and beliefs it's housing. So we should have been skeptical in the first place of any argument that said, based on the invisibility of the soul, we can conclude that it's changeless. It doesn't seem to be in fact changeless. Furthermore, we should be, or at least we might well be, skeptical of the claim that the soul is simple. Indeed, Plato himself, in other dialogues, argues against the simplicity of the soul. Now, that doesn't mean he's right in the other dialogues, but at least suggests that we shouldn't be so ready to assume that sort of position is correct. In The Republic, famously, Plato goes on to argue that the soul has at least three different parts. There's a rational part that's in charge of reasoning; there's a spirited part that's sort of like the will; there's a part that has to do with appetite, desires for food, drink, sex, what have you. Plato elsewhere argues the soul is not simple at all. So perhaps it shouldn't shock us that the argument he's sketching here for the simplicity of the soul based on the changeless, invisible nature of the soul-- perhaps it shouldn't shock us that that argument doesn't succeed after all. Finally, although I gave Plato, previously, the assumption that if only we could establish the simplicity of the soul, it would follow that soul was indestructible-- after all, you couldn't break a soul by tearing its pieces apart if it didn't have pieces, if it didn't have parts-- nonetheless, I just want to register the thought that it's not actually obvious that simples can't be destroyed. Well, they clearly can't be destroyed by the particular method of destruction that involves taking them apart. If they don't have parts, you can't take them apart. But for all that, it still seems conceptually possible for a simple to be destroyed in the following sense: it goes out of existence. After all, where did the simples come from in the first place? Well, at least from a logical point of view, it seems as though there's no difficulty in imagining that at one point a given simple didn't exist and then at the next point it popped into existence. Well, how did that happen? Maybe God said-- God says at the beginning of Genesis, "Let there be light." So maybe He says, "Let there be simples." At a given moment they weren't there; the next moment they were. Well, after a while maybe God says, "Let the simples no longer exist." Given moment there they were; the next moment, they no longer exist. Seems as though that idea makes sense, and so even if we agreed that the soul was simple, even if we granted everything in Plato's argument up to this point and said, "the soul really is simple," it still wouldn't follow that it's immortal. We'd still have to worry about the possibility that the simple soul might simply pop out of existence at a given point, perhaps the very point when the body gets destroyed. So I'm inclined to think that this most recent argument of Plato's-- the argument from simplicity-- no, that's not successful either. Before leaving that argument, there's one other piece of business I want to discuss. This is a footnote that I put aside, a point that I put aside previously. You'll recall that we were worried about the objection got raised the right way to think about the soul is like the harmony of a harp. And this was originally offered as a counterexample to the thought that invisible things couldn't be destroyed. But harmony could be destroyed. It was invisible, so invisible things could be destroyed. But I noticed, I mentioned that, look, whether or not this is a problem for the argument, it's an interesting suggestion in its own right. Because the suggestion that the mind is to the body, the soul is to the body, like harmony is to an instrument with strings, seems to me to be an early attempt to describe something like the physicalist conception of the mind. Just as harmony is something that gets produced by a well-tuned instrument, the soul or the mind is something that gets produced by a well-tuned body. Now Plato's got some objections to the suggestion that we should think of the mind as the harmony of the body. And so I want to take just a moment and talk about those objections because, of course, if they were compelling objections that might well give us reason to doubt the physicalist view. Whether or not Plato's arguments for the immortality of the soul work, he might still have some good arguments against the physicalist conception. But in thinking about these objections, it's important to bear in mind that it's only meant-- the harmony analogy is only meant-- as just that, as an analogy. Right? The claim isn't,  or at least it shouldn't be, understood as saying literally,  "the mind is harmony." It's rather, the mind is like harmony; it's the sort of thing to the body like harmony is to a harp, something that can be produced by a well-functioning, well-tuned physical object. A well-tuned instrument can produce melody and harmony. A well-tuned, properly functioning body can produce mental activity. That's the suggestion. And so even if it turns out that there are some ways in which the mind isn't exactly like harmony, it doesn't show us that the physicalist view is wrong. Well, so let's quickly look at what Plato's arguments were. First--this is, I think, an interesting argument-- Plato says, harmony clearly cannot exist before the existence of the harp itself. Right? The melodiousness of the harp can't exist prior to the physical construction of the harp. And if mind were the sort of thing that was produced by the proper functioning of the physical body, then pretty obviously the mind could not exist prior to the creation of the physical body. However, Plato has already argued earlier in the dialogue that the soul does exist prior to the existence of the body. That's the argument from recollection. If the soul exists prior to the body, it can't be like harmony; physicalism has clearly got to be false. But I said that I didn't find the argument-- I tried to explain why I didn't find the argument from recollection persuasive. I certainly do want to agree that if we became convinced that the soul did exist prior to the existence of the body, we would certainly want to agree that the soul is not like harmony. But I don't think the argument from recollection succeeds. Plato's second objection is to point out that harmony can vary. We talk about the melodiousness of the harp. Well, it could be harmonious in a variety of different ways and, indeed, to different degrees. Something--an instrument--could be more or less harmonious. What it's playing can be in greater or lesser harmony. But it doesn't seem as though souls come in degrees. You've got a soul or you don't have a soul. That's the argument, that's the objection. You've got a mind or you don't have a mind. But perhaps we should-- that's the objection, and of course if that was right then again we might have to conclude, well, whatever the mind is, it's not quite like harmony is to the body. But I'm not so sure we should agree that the mind can't come in degrees. It can at least-- The mental aspects can come in degrees. We can have varying degrees of intelligence, varying degrees of creativity, varying degrees of reasonableness, varying degrees of ability to communicate. So just as, we might say, just as the functioning of the harp can come in varying degrees more or less harmony-- the functioning of the body in terms of its mind can come in varying degrees. So that second objection doesn't seem to me very compelling. Third objection, Plato points out-- Socrates points out-- that the soul can be good or it could be evil, wicked. When the soul is good, when you've got somebody who has got their stuff together, we might speak of them as having a harmonious soul. If the soul were to the body like harmony is to the instrument and the soul can be harmonious, it would seem as though we'd have to be able to talk about harmony being harmonious. So just as we can talk about the harmony of the soul, we'd have to be able to-- if the soul is like the harmony of the body-- we'd have to be able to talk about the harmony of the harmony. But we don't talk about harmony of the harmony. I'm not quite sure what to make of this objection. This might be a point where it would be well to remind ourselves of the fact that the suggestion was never that the soul just literally is harmony. It's just similar to harmony, says the physicalist, in the way that harmony gets produced by the body-- by the instrument. In that same way, mind or mental activity gets produced by the body. We don't have to say that everything that's true of the mind is true of harmony and everything that's true of harmony is true of the body--or the mind. Still, I think there's a bit more we can say in response to this objection, and that's this: Just as it's true that we can talk about minds or souls being good or wicked, we can talk about different kinds of harmony. There are-- Certain harmonies are sweeter than others; some of them are more jarring and atonal or discordant. Although we might not normally talk about how harmonious the harmony is, it seems as though harmonies can come in different sorts and different kinds. And then, it turns out we really would have an analogy to the mind, which can come in different sorts and different kinds. So I think this third objection isn't really compelling either. Finally, Plato raises one more objection. He says, "Look, the soul is capable of directing the body, bossing it around, and indeed capable of opposing the body." You know, your body might want that piece of chocolate cake, but your soul says, "No, no. You're on a diet. Don't eat it." Right? Your soul can oppose the body. But if the soul was just harmony of the body, how could it do that? After all, the harmoniousness of the harp can't affect what the harp does. All these cause interaction in one way, as we might put it. In the case of the harp and the musicality and the melodiousness and the harmony, the physical state of the harp causes the melodiousness to be the way it is. But the harmoniousness of the harp, doesn't ever change or alter or direct the way the physical object the harp is. In contrast, not only can the body affect the soul, the soul can affect the body. So that suggests it can't really be like harmony and the harp after all. I think that's a pretty interesting objection. Since we do think, at least in the kind of position that we've been taking for this class, that the soul can affect the body, we might ask, how could it be that it's-- that the physicalist view is right? If talk about the mind is just a way of talking about what the body can do, how can the abilities of the body affect the body itself? I think the answer to this objection is probably going to be something like, what's really going on when we talk about the soul affecting the body is that-- when we say certain functions of the body are affecting the body that certain mental functions are affecting the body-- how does this happen causally? Well, something like the physical parts of the body that underwrite that lie beneath the proper fucntioning the proper mental functioning of body. Those are able to alter the other parts of the body. So look, right now I'm telling my body, "Wiggle my fingers." My soul is giving instructions to my body. How does that happen? That's my mind giving instructions to my body. How does that happen on the physicalist view? Well, my mind giving instructions to my body, "wiggle my fingers," is just one part of my body, my brain, giving instructions to another part of my body, the muscles in my fingers. So, although we talk about the mind altering the body, strictly what's going on there, says the physicalist, is just one part of the body affecting another part of the body. Can we have something like that with a harp? Well, maybe not. Right? Maybe the harp's too simple a machine to have one part of it affect another part of it in that way. Even if that were true, that wouldn't give us reason to reject the physicalist conception. It would just give us reason to think the harp's not very much like the mind and the body. It's just the beginnings of a picture, of a physicalist picture. Still, even if we think about the harp and musicality, I think we can see something analogous. Suppose I pluck a string on my harp, producing a certain note. As we know, the vibrations of one string can set into play the other strings vibrating as well. And so, suddenly, what's happening in one part of the harp affects what's going on in other parts of the harp. The musicality of my playing a certain chord on the harp may create certain kinds of overtones in the harp, setting the harp vibrating in various other ways. Well, that would be analogous-- perhaps not a precise analogy, but at least a rough analogy to what goes on when my mind affects my body--to-- if one part of my body affects other parts of my body. So, on the one hand, I want to give Plato a fair bit of credit for taking the physicalist view seriously enough to try to criticize it. And since when he was writing there weren't the kind of complicated thinking machines that we've got nowadays, it's no criticism of Plato that he used simple machines like musical instruments to try to think about what a physicalist picture would look like. I want to give him credit, but I also want to suggest that the objections that he raises to the physicalist view just don't succeed. All right. Now, there's one other argument that I want to consider in our dialogue. And after the appeal to the simplicity of the soul, there's a very long complicated discussion about what constitutes an adequate explanation, and Socrates gives some of his history there and talks about what he's looking for in trying to find adequate explanations of things. And these passages are very, very difficult and happily for our purposes we don't really need to go there. Before the dialogue ends though, there's one further argument, which I'll dub, "the argument from essential properties." Now again, it's important to bear in mind as we try to make sense of this passage that Plato is writing at a time when we don't have, we didn't have, all the conceptual apparatus that we have nowadays. We stand on his shoulders; we've inherited some of the distinctions that he was the first to try to put into play. And so although, again, he's about to-- I'm about to sketch or reconstruct an argument and claim that that the argument doesn't actually work, this isn't really meant by way of being dismissive of Plato. I want to give him a tremendous amount of credit. He's trying to see his way through a morass of issues that are still confusing to us today, though I think we can see somewhat further than he was able to see. Anyway, the distinction we need to understand the final argument, is the distinction between an essential property and a contingent property. An essential property is a property that a given object must have; it always has as long as it exists at all. A contingent property is a property that an object may have, may happen to have its entire existence, but could've existed without. So my car is blue. That's a contingent property of my car. I could take it to the paint shop and get it painted red, in which case it would be red. It would no longer be blue, but the car would still exist. My car is blue, but it could be red; it could exist as a red car. And even if I never, over the entire course of existence of my car, never get it painted, so that from the moment it came into creation to the moment it gets smashed it's always blue-- still, we understand perfectly well the idea that it could've been red. There's nothing incompatible with the idea that this car exists and is red. So that's an example of a contingent property. And I might have a pencil, and the pencil is whole. And I never break it, but I could've broken it. That's a contingent property, whether the pencil is whole or broken. I take a piece of metal; it's a contingent property whether it's straight or bent. I bend it; now it's bent. I might straighten it back out; now it's straight. Many, many properties are contingent properties. You're happy, you're sad, you're awake, you're asleep. But some properties, in contrast, are essential properties. For the particular thing that we're thinking about, it's not possible to have that thing and not have the property in question. Plato gives the example of fire and being hot. Fire is hot. That's a property that it's got, but it's not a contingent property; it's an essential property. It's not as though some fire is hot and some fire is cold or, "Oh yes, it just happens that over the entire life of the fire the fire is hot, but we could have made it cold." There's no such thing; there could be no such thing as cold fire. As long as you've got a bit of fire, it's hot. Take away the heat, you take away the fire, you destroy the fire. You can't have cold fire. That's an example of an essential property. That is to say, Plato sees, as indeed I take it we all see at least roughly, that there's some sort of distinction there, and he's trying to see his way clear on these matters. That remains a controversial question today-- until today. Are there really essential properties in the way we take there to be? If so, which properties are essential? Which ones are contingent? Water is composed of H2O that's its atomic structure. Is that an essential property of water? Could you have something that was water without being composed of H2O-- hydrogen and oxygen in that way? Well, some people say yes, some people say no-- but most of us we want to say, "Oh, there's an example of an essential property. To be water, you must have that atomic structure." All right. That's the thought. Now, armed with this distinction, Plato says, "Here's an essential property for the soul. Wherever there's a soul, it's alive." Now, by "alive," I take it Plato means it's thinking, or it's capable of thought. Wherever you've got a soul, you've got something capable of thought. I suppose one could try to resist this claim of Plato's, but I find it reasonably plausible. I start thinking about minds, and I ask myself, "Could there be a mind that was incapable of thought?" Maybe not. Maybe that's just built into minds by definition. Just like you couldn't have something that was fire without it being hot, you couldn't have something that was a mind without it being capable of thought. It's important to say the word capable here. Right? It's not as though all minds always are thinking. I presume there are stretches during the night when my mind is not thinking, not dreaming. Still, it's capable of thought even though it's not thinking at the time. But you say, "No. Here's a mind that's not even capable of thought." I want to say, "Then, it's just not a mind." So all right, maybe being capable of thought is an essential property of the mind. Plato thinks about the mind in terms of souls, so maybe being capable of thought is an essential property of the soul. And I think that's what Plato means when he suggests the mind is essential-- the soul is essentially alive. It's a necessary property, as we might put it, of the soul, that it's alive, that it's capable of thought. So I want to say, "Not an implausible claim." Let's give it to Socrates. But once we give it to Socrates, Plato thinks now he's pretty much done. After all, think about what it means to say that something's got an essential property. Fire's got the essential property of being hot. It means there are only two possibilities. Either you've got some fire and it will be hot, or the fire has been destroyed, it's been put out. Those are the only two possibilities. You either have-- If heat is an essential property of fire, either you've got some fire and it's hot, or the fire no longer exists, it's been put out. There's no third possibility of a non-hot fire, of a cold fire. So, if you've got the claim that life's an essential property of the soul, only two possibilities: either you've got the soul and it's alive-- to wit, it's capable of thought-- or the soul's been destroyed. But Plato thinks we can rule out that other possibility. How? Well, it's by thinking about this particular essential property. There's nothing in the idea that fire has the essential property of being hot to make us think it couldn't be destroyed, but there is something, Plato thinks, in the idea of being essentially alive to rule out the possibility of its being destroyed. In fact, as you say the very words you begin to feel the force, the pull of Plato's position. If the soul is essentially alive, if it's necessarily alive, it's got to be alive. It can't be destroyed. That's, I think, at least the kind of argument that Plato means to put forward. He does it in terms of the phrase, "deathless." He says, I want to actually get this up here on the board One-- life is an essential property of the soul. But if you think about what that means, it follows that the soul is deathless. After all, if the soul is-- If it's essentially alive, that means it can't be dead. So it's deathless. But after all, anything that's deathless can't die. So the soul cannot die, which is just to say it's indestructible. So, soul can't be destroyed. Something like this seems to be Plato's argument. One, life's an essential property of the soul, but we can just summarize that by saying the soul is deathless. But if the soul is deathless, it can't die. If it can't die, it can't be destroyed, it's indestructible. So the soul can't be destroyed. Remember, once we said the soul was alive, there were only two possibilities. If the soul was essentially alive, either we have the soul, it's alive, capable of thought, or it's destroyed. But if the soul can't be destroyed, that leaves only the possibility the soul is alive, capable of thought. That's just what Plato thinks; the soul will always exist, capable of thought. Well, it won't shock you to hear that I don't think this argument actually works. And I think where it goes wrong is there's a certain kind of ambiguity in the idea of being deathless. What does it mean to say that something is deathless? I think there are two possible interpretations of that phrase. If something is deathless, then it can't be that-- well, what? One possibility is, it can't be that the soul exists and is dead. That's one possible interpretation. To say that something is deathless means you'll never have a soul that exists and the same time that it exists it's dead. But there's a second possible interpretation of deathless. It can't be that the soul was destroyed. It's very easy to confuse these two interpretations of deathless, A and B. And basically, this is what I think is going on with Plato. He's running back and forth between these two interpretations. If life is an essential property of the soul, then that means we will never have, as it were, a soul in our hand that exists and is dead. Just in the same way that you'll never have a piece of fire in your hand, as it were, that exists and is cold. It can't happen. Wherever you've got a soul, it is alive. So it's deathless in sense number, in sense A. Since wherever you've got a soul it must be alive, it couldn't be the case that the soul exists and is dead. So it's deathless in sense A. But for all that, it could still be, logically speaking, that the soul could be destroyed, just like a fire can be put out. We could imagine something that couldn't be destroyed. Then of course it would be deathless in sense B, a much stronger sense of deathless. What Plato needs, what Plato wants, is to convince us that the soul is deathless in sense B: It's true of the soul that it can't be that it was destroyed. But all he's entitled to is sense A: You'll never have a soul that exists and is dead, because being alive is an essential property of the soul. But the mere fact that where there's a soul it's alive, doesn't mean the soul couldn't be destroyed. Just like from the fact that where there's fire it's hot doesn't mean the fire can't be destroyed. It's, I think, pretty easy to get confused in thinking about these issues. It's difficult to see your way clearly to these two different notions of deathless. It's difficult to get to the point where you can clearly use the language of essential properties without getting screwed up. Still, I think that's what happened here. We grant Plato the thought that the soul has an essential property of being alive; from this, it follows that where there's a soul it is alive, and hence, it's deathless in sense A. But once we start thinking about the category, the notion of being deathless, we're tempted to re-understand that as being deathless in sense B, can't be destroyed. And that, I think, doesn't follow. All right. Where does that leave us? Plato's gone through a series of arguments for the immortality, the indestructibility of the soul, and I've argued that none of them work. Some of them are worth taking seriously. That's why we've spent the last week or so going over them. But none of them, as far as I can see, are successful. And I hardly need remind you that this comes on the heels of a previous week or two in which we talked about various other arguments for the very existence of an immaterial soul. And I've argued that none of those arguments work either. As far as I can see then, the arguments that might be offered for the existence of an immaterial soul, let alone an immortal soul, the arguments don't succeed. It's not that the idea of a soul is in any way silly; it's not that it's not worth thinking about. It's that when we ask ourselves, "Do we have any good reason to believe in an immaterial soul?" and actually try to spell out what those reasons might be, as we look more carefully we see the arguments are not very compelling. So I'm prepared to conclude there is no soul. There's no good reason to believe in souls. And I so I conclude-- at least there's no good enough reason to believe in souls-- and so I conclude there are none. And this is the position that here on out I'm going to be assuming for the rest of the class. I'm going to have us continue to think about death, but now think about death from the physicalist perspective. Given the assumption that the body is all there is, that talk about the mind is just a way of talking about the abilities of the body to do certain special mental activities. There are no extra things beyond the body, no immaterial souls. Now, it wouldn't be unreasonable at this point to accuse me of begging the question. After all, think about what I've done. I've put all of the burden of proof on the fan of souls. I've asked the dualist, "Give me some reason to believe your position." And I've said the arguments on behalf of dualism aren't very convincing. Don't I now need, in fairness, to do the same thing for the physicalist? Don't I need to turn to the physicalist and say, "Give me some reason to believe that physicalism is true? Give me some reason to believe souls don't exist." After all, I turned to the dualist and said, "Give me some reason to believe in souls." Those arguments didn't work. Don't I now need to turn to the physicalist and say, "Give me some reason not to believe in souls? Prove that souls don't exist." Isn't that fair? So let's pause and ask ourselves, how do you go about proving that something doesn't exist? Or, to put it in a slightly better way, when do you need to prove that something doesn't exist? When we have examples of things whose existence we don't believe in, how do we decide when we're justified in disbelieving them? Take something like dragons. Let me assume that everybody in this class, in this room, does not believe in the existence of dragons. How do I prove that there aren't any dragons? I mean, there could be dragons. Couldn't there? But there aren't any. We don't believe in dragons. So don't you need to disprove the existence of dragons before you continue on your way of not believing in them? I imagine nobody in this room believes in the existence of Zeus, the Greek god. How do you disprove the existence of Zeus? Don't we have an obligation to prove that Zeus doesn't exist? But how could you do that? Well, unsurprisingly, I don't actually think you do have an obligation to disprove those things. That doesn't mean you don't have any obligations. You just have to be very careful about what the intellectual obligations come to. So back to dragons. What do we need to do for dragons? Well, the most important thing you need to do, to justify your skepticism about dragons, is to refute all of the arguments that might be offered on behalf of dragons. My son's got a book about dragons with some very nice photographs. So, one of the things I need to do in order to justify my skepticism about dragons is explain away the photographs, or the drawings, or what have you. I need to explain why it is that we have pictures, even though there really aren't any dragons. Well, some of these are just drawings, and people were drawing things out of their imagination. The things that look like photographs, you know, nowadays with computer generated graphics, you can make things that look like photographs, and given Photoshop you can make things that look like pictures of just about anything that doesn't even exist. How do I prove there aren't any unicorns? Well, I look at the various reported sightings of unicorns and I try to explain them away, "Well, you know, it's the first time people, Europeans, saw the rhinoceros. It sort of reminded them of a horse with a big horn. And maybe that's where the reports of rhinoceros came-- or the various reports of the unicorn came from. The various unicorn horns that have been offered in various collections, upon examination by biologists turn out to be narwhal horns, horns from whales, and so forth and so on." You look at each bit of evidence that gets offered on behalf of the unicorn and you debunk it. You explain why it's not compelling. And when you're done, you're entitled to say, "You know, as far as I can tell, there aren't any unicorns. As far as I can tell, there aren't any dragons." It's not as though you've got some obligation to look in every single cave anywhere on the surface of the Earth and say, "Oh, no dragons in there, no dragons in there, no dragons in there, no dragons in there, no dragons in there." You are pretty much justified in being skeptical about the existence of dragons once you've undermined the arguments for dragons. Now, there might be something more that you could do. In at least some cases, you can go on to argue the very idea of the kind of thing we're talking about is impossible. It's not just-- Take dragons again; it's not just that there's no good reason to believe in dragons. The very idea of a dragon may be scientifically incoherent, at least given the science as we understand it. I mean, dragons are supposed to breath fire. So that must mean they've got fire in their belly. But how does the fire continue to exist in their belly, absent--lack of oxygen? Why isn't the fire in their belly busy burning and destroying the membranes of their stomach or whatever? All right, you could, I suppose, try to prove that dragons were scientifically impossible. And if you could, then you'd have an extra reason to not believe in them. But it's not as though you have to prove that something's impossible to be justified in not believing in it. I don't think unicorns are impossible. I just don't think there are any. Surely, there could be horses with a single long horn growing out of their forehead. There just aren't any. So armed with these ideas, come back to the discussion of souls. Do I, as a physicalist who does not believe in the existence of souls, immaterial entities above and beyond the body, do I need to disprove the existence of souls? "Well, there's no soul here, no souls there." No. What I need to do is to take a look at each argument that gets offered for the existence of a soul and rebut it-- explain why those arguments are not compelling. I don't need to prove that souls are impossible. I just need to undermine the case for souls. If there's no good reason to believe in souls, that actually constitutes a reason to believe there are no souls. Now, if you want to, you could go on and try to prove that souls are impossible in the same way that maybe dragons are impossible. But I'm not sure that I myself find such impossibility claims especially persuasive. I don't believe in the existence of souls, but that doesn't mean that I find the idea of an immaterial entity like the soul impossible. Now, some people might say, "Well, you know, it violates science. As we know it, it violates physics to have there be something immaterial." But science is constantly coming around to believe in entities or properties that it didn't believe in previously. Maybe it just hasn't gotten around to believing in souls yet. Or if current science rules out the possibility of souls, maybe we should say, "So much the worse for current science." So I'm not somebody who wants to say we can disprove the existence of souls. I don't think we can disprove them. I don't think the idea of a soul is in any way incoherent. There are philosophers who've thought that. I'm not one of them. But I don't think I need to disprove the existence of a soul to be justified in not believing in it. Unicorns aren't impossible, but for all that, I'm justified in thinking there aren't any. Why? Because all the evidence for unicorns just doesn't add up to very convincing case. Souls are not impossible, but for all that, I think I'm justified in believing there aren't any. Why? Because when you look for the-- look at the arguments that have been offered to try to convince us of the existence of souls, those arguments just aren't very compelling, or so it seems to me. So, from this point on out, I'll be assuming the physicalist view is correct, and will be thinking about the issues of death as they'd be understood from the physicalist point of view 



 Chapter 9: 人格同一性（一）：跨越时空的同一性 和 灵魂理论


At the end of last class, I suggested that from here on out I'm going to be assuming that there is no soul. I'm going to be discussing the issues that we turn to here after from the perspective of the physicalist, the person who says that a person is basically just a fancy body-- a body that can do certain special tricks, a body that can function in certain ways that we associate with being a person, a body that can P-function, as we put it. Now, I've given you my reasons for believing there are no souls. Basically, that the various arguments that might be offered for believing in souls don't seem very compelling upon examination, so there's no good reason to posit this extra entity. For the most part, then, I'm going to be putting aside soul talk. Periodically, I'll come back and talk about how some issue that we are considering might look from the perspective of somebody who does believe in souls. But, as I say, for the most part, I'm going to be assuming there are no souls. For those of you who still do believe in the existence of souls, I suppose you could take a great deal of the discussion that follows as some form of large conditional or subjunctive. If there were no souls, then here's what we'd have to say. So although I'll be largely talking from the perspective of the physicalist, if you haven't become convinced of the truth of physicalism, so be it. We'll at least explore what will we say about death if we've decided that people are basically just bodies? Now, you'll recall that at the start of the semester I said, in thinking about the question, could I survive my death? there were two basic things we had to get clear on. First, we had to get clear on, what am I? What are my parts? That's why we spent the last several weeks worrying about the question, am I just a body? Am I a body and an immaterial soul as well? Or perhaps, strictly speaking, just the soul? Having looked at that question, we're now going to turn to the second basic question, what would it be to survive? What would it be for a thing like that to continue to exist? Now, of course, we're going to ask most particularly, what would it be for a thing like that to survive the death of the body? Could it even make sense for a person to survive the death of his body? You might think the answer to that is no, if we are physicalists, but in fact, it's not so clear the answer to that is no. But in order to address that particular question-- What is for me to survive the death of my body? Is that even a possibility or not? We first have to get clear about the more general question, what is it for me to survive, period? Take the more familiar hum-drum case. Here I am lecturing to you today, Thursday. Somebody's going to be here, no doubt, lecturing to you next week, next Tuesday. The question of survival can be asked about that very simple case. Is the person who's going to be lecturing to you on Tuesday the very same person as the person who is standing in front of you lecturing to you now? Will that person survive the weekend? I certainly expect to survive the weekend. But what is it to survive the weekend? What is it? We might say, look, we've already got the beginnings of an answer. For me to survive until Tuesday, presumably is for there to be somebody, some person alive lecturing to you on Tuesday, and--here's the crucial point-- for that person lecturing to you on Tuesday to be the very same person as the person lecturing to you today, on Thursday. If I were to be killed in a plane accident this weekend and there was a guest lecturer for you on Tuesday, there'd be somebody alive lecturing to you. But, of course, that wouldn't be me. So the question we want to get clear on is, what is it for somebody on Tuesday to be the same person as the person here talking to you on Thursday? We can ask the question more grandly, about larger expanses of time. Suppose there's somebody alive 40-odd years from now, in the year 2050. Could that be me? To ask, have I survived until 2050? is to ask, is that person who's alive in 2050 the very same person as the person who's standing here now lecturing to you? What is it for somebody in the future to be the very same person as this person who's here now today? Now, in thinking about this question, thinking about this question, it's important not to misunderstand what we're asking. Some of you may misunderstand what I'm asking. Some of you may want to say, "Look, the person lecturing to you now has at least a fair bit of his hair. He's got a beard. Let's suppose that the person alive in 2050 is bald and bent over, has no beard. How could they be the same person? One's got hair, one doesn't. One's got a beard, one doesn't. One stands straight, one's crooked. It can't be the same person." That's the mistake that it's important for us to get clear about. So I'm going to spend some time talking about examples that I think we would not find puzzling, and work our way back up to the case of personal identity. So first I'm going to say some things about identity across time, or indeed initially, identity across space with some familiar,hum-drum, material objects. So, let's start. Suppose you and I are walking along and we see a train. So let me draw the train first. I'm not a very good artist, but... All right. There's our train. We start walking. I point to the caboose. Let's make this look more like a caboose, slightly more like a caboose. Just so it doesn't look too much like the locomotive. I point to the caboose and I say, "Look at that train." And we're walking along, we're walking along, we're walking along. We come to the end of the train and I point to the locomotive and I say, "Wow! Look how long that train is! That's the very same train I pointed to five minutes ago. We've been walking along it all this time." Now, imagine that you say-- you wouldn't say anything as stupid as this, but imagine that you said this--you say, "This isn't the same train as the train we pointed to five minutes ago. After all, right now what you're pointing to is a locomotive, whereas five minutes ago what you pointed to was a caboose. A caboose isn't the same thing as a locomotive. How could you possibly say it's the same thing? Who could possibly make a mistake like that? The locomotive's got smoke coming out of it. The caboose doesn't. And so forth and so on. There's a lot of differences between the two. How could you make such a silly mistake?" Well, of course, what I would then want to say to you is, "No, actually, you're the one who's making the mistake." I agree, of course, that a locomotive is not the same thing as a caboose. But I wasn't claiming that it was. Rather, initially when we started our walk, I pointed to a caboose, but by pointing to the caboose, I picked out a train. I said, "Look at that train." And what I was referring to wasn't just the caboose, but the whole, long, extended-through-space object, the train, of which the caboose was just a part. And when--At the end of our walk when I pointed to a locomotive and said, "Look at that train," By pointing to the locomotive, I was picking out a train, an entire train. This long, extended-through-space object, the train. And when I said, "This train that I'm pointing to now is the very same train as the train I pointed to five minutes ago," I'm not saying what is certainly false. I'm not saying the locomotive is the same thing as the caboose. Rather, what I'm saying is, the entire extended-through-space train that I'm pointing out now is the same train as the entire extended-through-space train that I picked out five minutes ago. And that claim, far from being false, is true. Now, as I say, none of us would make that mistake. But it's a tempting mistake if you're not being careful. And that mistake might mislead us if we start thinking about the personal identity case. But let's continue with the train for a bit. Suppose, as we're taking our walk, part of the train isn't visible. There's a large warehouse that's blocking the view. We're walking along the way. We see a caboose. I say, "Ha! There's a train." Then for a while we're walking, we don't see anything, because all you can see is the warehouse. And then after we get past the warehouse, a very long, block-long warehouse, I see a locomotive and I say, "Hey look. There's a train." And then I ask you, "Do you think this is the same train as the train we pointed to before?" Now again, it's important not to misunderstand that question. That question is not asking, Is the locomotive that we're pointing to now the same as the caboose that we pointed to earlier?" No, of course not. The locomotive's not the same as the caboose. But that's not what I'm asking. What I'm asking rather is... Remember earlier when I pointed to the caboose? In doing so, and I started talking about a train, I was picking out some entire extended-through-space train. Right now, in pointing to a locomotive, I'm picking out not just the locomotive. I mean to be talking about an entire train. Some entire extended-through-space train. And I'm asking not about the locomotive and the caboose, but rather I'm asking about the trains that I pick out by means of the locomotive and caboose. Are they the same train? And the answer is, "Don't know; can't tell. The building's blocking the view." Suppose we had x-ray vision and could see through the building. Then the answer would be, "Well look, if what we've got is something like this, then of course, we do have one single train." The extended-through-space train I picked out at the end of our walk is the same as the extended-through-space train that I picked out at the beginning of our walk. But it might not turn out that way. It might turn out if I had x-ray vision, that what I'd see is this. Then the answer would be, "Ah, there's not one train here, but two trains." The extended-through-space train that I'm picking out when I point to the locomotive turns out to be a different train from the extended-through-space train I picked out when I pointed to the caboose. I don't have x-ray vision. I don't know which of these metaphysical hypotheses is the correct one. All right. Easy enough with trains. We know how it works with trains. Now let's talk about something not a whole lot more complicated. Cars. I used to have a car I bought in 1990. My ability to draw cars is even worse than my ability to draw trains. There's my car. In 1990, it was new. It was sparkly. Then I drove it for some years and I got some dents and so forth and so on. Here's a smile. By 1996 or 2000, it wasn't looking so good. The sparkle had gone. It had a couple of dents. That was the car in 2000. By 2006, it had a lot of dents, 2006, when it finally died. All right. Now we all understand the claim that the car I had in 2006 was the very same car as the car I had in 1990. Of course, again, you've got to be careful not to misunderstand what's being said. We all know that in 2006 the car had a lot of scratches and had gotten banged in on one side and pretty sorry looking in terms of the scrapes and the paint job and the rust. Whereas, the car in 1990, new and shiny and smooth. You might say the 2006 car stage is obviously not the same thing as the 1990 car stage. That's like thinking that the locomotive's the same thing as the caboose. But when I say it's the same car, I don't mean to be talking about car stages. I mean to be talking about a single thing that was extended through time. There I am, proud owner of my new car in 1990 and I say, "This is a car. It's a car that will exist for more than a few minutes. It's a car that will exist for years and years and years," Though at the time I didn't realize it was going to last 16 years or longer. When I refer to my car--as opposed to what we could dub the car stage or the car slice-- when I refer to the car in 1990, I mean to be talking about the entire extended-through-time object. In 2006, when I point to that sad heap and talk about, "I've had that car for 16 years." Well, I haven't had that car stage for 16 years. That car stage or that car slice, if we wanted to talk about it that way, has only been around for however long, months, years, a year. It hasn't been around for 16 years. But when I talk about that car, I'm picking not just the current slice or the current stage of the car, but the entire extended-through-time object. When I say, "That's the very same car I've had for 16 years," I mean... Think of the object extended through time that I'm picking out by pointing to the current slice. That's the very same extended-through-time object that I picked out 16 years ago by pointing to what was then the current slice. The slices aren't the same; the car is the same. It's the very same car. Well, now let's imagine a somewhat more difficult case. At the end of 2006, my engine failed. I sold the car to a dealer, junk dealer. Suppose that in 2010 I see a car in the junk lot and it looks familiar to me. I say, "Whoa! That's my car." Is it or isn't it my car? This is sort of like the case with the factory blocking the view. 1990 to 2006, very easy. Saw the car every day in my garage. But here is a four-year-- Instead of a factory blocking my view, it's the mists of time blocking my view. And I ask, "Same car or not?" Again, by this time, I imagine you don't need to be warned, but let me just warn you a couple more times. I'm not asking, "Is the car stage, the 2010 car stage, the same car stage as the 2006 car stage?" Maybe not. Maybe obviously not. I'm asking rather... in pointing to the 2010 car stage, I mean to be picking out an entire extended-through-time entity, the car. And I'm asking, "Is that the very same extended-through-time entity as the extended-through-time entity that I used to own?" I wonder. And the answer is, "Don't know." The mists of time are blocking my view. I don't know the answer. But we know what the possibilities are. One possibility is that indeed it's the very same-- I won't draw it all, 2008 and so forth. It could be the very same car. If we knew what it took to have the various stages of a car add up to the very same car, then that would be one possibility. But there might be a different possibility. It could have been that after I sold it to the junk dealer, he crushed it, turned it into a heap of metal and that was the end of my car. And the car I'm seeing on the dealer's lot in 2010 might be some other car with its own history. What we're wondering about is, is there a single-- well, here's a piece of jargon --is there a single "Space-time worm" here Or are there two? When I look at the car in 2010 and say, "There's a car. I wonder if it's the same car," I'm asking about this thing that's extended-- well, obviously through space, since cars take up some space-- and through time. Looks a bit like a worm. So philosophers call them space-time worms. Is the space-time worm that makes up this car the same space-time worm as the one that made up my car? One worm there or two? And the answer might be, "Don't know, need to have more facts." But at least that's what the question is. Now metaphysically, there's different ways of trying to pose the set of issues that I've begun to talk about. Should we say, as we might say with the train, the train is made up out of the various cars, the locomotive, the caboose, and the intervening cars? So the train--that's the way we normally think about trains, at least the way I normally think about trains-- the train's a bit like a sandwich, right? The metaphysically fundamental things are the caboose, the locomotives, the intervening trains. If they're glued together in the right way, they make up a train. What's the right kind of metaphysical glue for trains? Well, it's being connected with those little locks. That may or may not be the right way to think about what I've been calling car stages or car slices. On some metaphysical views, you might say, just exactly like with the train, the car stages are the metaphysically fundamental things and a car, something extended through time, is glued together like a sandwich from the car stages. And then, we might worry about what's the relevant metaphysical glue for cars. On other metaphysical views, no what's really prior is the car itself, and talking about car stages is a certain convenience, a kind of way of chopping up the fundamental thing, the car. So, to use an analogy that I think David Kaplan, a philosopher at UCLA offers, it's as though you have to think of it more like a bologna or salami that you can slice. If--For certain purposes you can talk about slices, but the fundamental thing's the salami. All right. In thinking about cars, should we say that the fundamental thing is the car stages and they get put together like a sandwich to make cars? Or should we think that the fundamental thing is the car extended through time and it can be sliced up to make car stages? For our purposes, I think we won't have to go there. It doesn't really matter. As long as we're comfortable talking about entire space-time worms, the cars, and the slices or the stages. We don't have to ask which is metaphysically prior. You should also notice that-I should also mention that there are other metaphysical views about what goes on when an object exists over time. I've been here helping myself to the suggestion that we should think about extension over time analogously to the way we think about extension over space. That's why I started with a spatial example, the train, and moved to the temporal example, the car. And there are those philosophers who think that's exactly the right way to think about it and those philosophers that think no, no, that's misleading. When an object is extended over time, really the entire object's right there at every single moment. These are interesting and difficult questions. But again, I think for our purposes, we don't have to go there. So I will help myself to this language of space-time worms, objects that extend not only over space but also over time. And distinguish the entire worm from the various slices or stages that either make up the worm or that we could slice the worm into. The point that I've been emphasizing is, well first point, of course, has been, "Don't confuse the stages with the entire space-time worm." The stages can differ without the entire space-time worm being a different worm. Second question I've hinted at that we're about to turn to, not literally turn to at the moment, but shortly we'll turn to is, "What's the relevant glue?" What makes two stages, stages of the very same thing? In the case of trains, as I say, it's fairly obvious. What is it in the case of cars? What makes the 1990 car stage a stage in the very same car, the extended through space and time worm car, as the 2006 stage? What's the metaphysical glue that glues these stages together? And the answer, not that there aren't puzzles about it, but the answer is roughly, "It's the very same car if it's the very same hunk of metal and plastic and wires." There was the car. A car is just some metal and plastic, rubber. And that very same hunk continued into 2000 and it continued into 2006. The glue, the key to identity across time for cars, is being the same hunk of stuff. Now, that doesn't mean it's got to be the same atom for atom. We know that's not true. Look, think about my steering wheel. Every time I grabbed the steering wheel to drive, I wore away thousands of atoms. You can lose some atoms and still be the very same steering wheel. Every now and then, I'd replace the tires on my car. But for all that, it was the same hunk of stuff. Now this raises an interesting issue. How many changes of the constituent parts can you have and still be the same hunk of stuff? If this was a class in which we were going to worry about the general problem of identity across time, this would be a problem we'd have to directly face. But since we are only looking at enough of the problem of identity to get to the question that we really want to think about, the nature of personal identity across time, I'm not going to pursue that. I just want to flag the thought that you can be the very same hunk of stuff, even if some of the constituent atoms have changed along the way. And even bigger parts. You can replace the headlights and still be the same hunk of stuff. Anyway, that's what's gone on in the car case, same hunk of stuff 1990-2006. And when I see the car on the junk dealer's yard in 2010 and ask, "Is that my car or not?" The answer lies in--if only we could know-- is that the same hunk of stuff or not? That's what the key. The metaphysical glue is, being the same hunk of stuff. All right, let's turn now to the case we really wonder about, personal identity. Here's somebody lecturing to you in 2007, Shelly Kagan. We imagine there's somebody in 2050 and we ask, "Is that Shelly Kagan?" We'll call him "Mr. X." We ask,"Is that the same person or not?" Now again, at this point you're not going to be tempted by the mistake. I'm not asking, "Is this person stage Mr. X the same person stage as SK 2007?" Obviously not. SK 2007 has still got his hair, has the beard, stands up more or less straight. Mr. X is bald, doesn't have a beard. I suppose I should have drawn him bent. Can I do that? A little cane. I'm not asking, "Is the person stage Mr. X the same as the person stage SK 2007?" Sounds like a computer or something. Get the SK 2007! I'm not asking that. I'm asking, I'm saying, "Look, when you look at the current stage, the current person slice and think about the entire extended-through-time entity, the person that makes up Shelly Kagan, or that is Shelly Kagan, is that the very same person as the extended-through-time person that you got in mind when you point to the Mr. X 2050?" The stages are obviously different. But by looking at the stages, we pick out a space-time worm that makes up a person. And we're asking, "Is that the very same space-time worm as the one we picked out previously or a different space-time worm than the one we picked out previously?" And the answer, presumably, is going to be, "Well it depends on getting clear on whether the stages are glued together in the right metaphysical way." And so, what we'd like to know is, well, what does it take for two person stages to make up or be part of the very same extended-through-time person? What's the metaphysical glue that underlies being a single extended-through-time person? What's the key to personal identity? If we could get clear about what the answer to that metaphysical question, the key to personal identity, we'd at least know what we needed to find out to answer the question, "Is this one person or two? Are the pieces glued together in the right way?" Different question, the question that we're ultimately hoping to get an answer to. "Could I survive my death?" Well look, think again about the question we started with. Could I survive the weekend? To survive the weekend, there's got to be somebody who's alive, some person on Tuesday and that person's got to be the very same person as the person you're looking at now, you're thinking about now. Or to put it in terms of stages, that person's got to be--that stage, that slice has to be part of the very same extended-through-time space-time worm as this stage is. They've got to be glued together in the right way. We can't tell whether that's true until we know what the glue is. But at least we anticipate that, well, there will be somebody here on Tuesday who is glued together in that way, the right way, whatever that turns out to be. The stages will be glued together in the right way. Suppose I asked then, "Will I survive my death?" All right, so I'm going to be optimistic. I'm going to assume that I make it to 2040. 2040? I won't even be 90 yet. That's not too wildly optimistic. It's optimistic, but not wildly optimistic. So here's the SK 2040. We know that there's an extended through space and time, space-time worm, a person. Then let's suppose, sadly, 2041 my body dies. And I ask, "Could I survive my death, that is to say, the death of my body?" Well, we want to know, after 2041, let's say 2045, is there somebody who's a person, call him Mr. X. Could it be the case that there'd be a person in 2045, after the death of my body in 2041, could it be the case that there's a person who is part of the very same space-time worm that you're thinking about right now? Could that be or not? We can't answer that question until we are clearer about what does it take to have identity across time. What's the key to personal identity? What's the metaphysical glue? Once we get clear about what the relevant metaphysical glue is, we'll be in a position to start asking, "Could this happen or not?" All right, that's the question I want to turn to, then. What are the possible positions on this question? What's the key to personal identity? What's it to be the very same person? As we might put it somewhat misleadingly, what is it for "Two" People to really be the same single extended-through-time person? Suppose we believed in souls. Then here would be a natural proposal. The metaphysical key to personal identity is having the very same soul. So suppose I was a dualist. I'd say, "Look, you're looking at a body, but connected in this intimate way with this body is a particular soul, the soul of Shelly Kagan. What makes it true that the person lecturing to you next Tuesday is Shelly Kagan, the very same person, what makes that true is that it's the very same soul. As long as this soul is here again on Tuesday, It'll be Shelly Kagan. If it's a different soul, it's not Shelly Kagan." That's the natural thing to suggest if we believe in the soul view. The key to personal identity-- not the only thing a soul theorist can say, but the natural thing for a soul theorist to say-- the key to personal identity is having the very same soul. Same soul, same person. Different soul, different person. Imagine that God or a demon or what have you, for whatever perverse reason, severs the ordinary connection between my body and my soul and then reconnects the wires, as it were, so that there's a different soul animating and controlling this body on Tuesday. For whatever perverse reasons, maybe to make some sort of philosophical point, that person decides to come in anyway on Tuesday and lecture to you about philosophy. According to the view that we're taking, which we'll now call the soul view, according to the soul view, it won't be me lecturing to you on Tuesday. Why not? Because we've just stipulated it's not the same soul. It's a different soul. The key to personal identity, according to the soul theory of personal identity, the key to personal identity is having the same soul. When I ask myself, "Will I survive the weekend?" what I'm asking is, "Will my soul still be around come Tuesday?" As long as my soul still exists and is functioning, it's still me. I'm still around. In fact--peeking ahead of course, and this is why we are often drawn to soul views-- even if my body dies, as long as my soul continues to exist, I continue to exist. The key to personal identity, according to the soul view, is having the same soul. As long as my soul continues to exist, it's still me, whether or not my body's still alive. And it's precisely for this reason that at least the soul, belief in the soul, combined with the soul theory of personal identity, holds out the possibility of surviving my death. We may not know that the soul will continue to exist after the destruction of the body, but at least it seems like a possibility. Plato of course, as we know, tried to argue that we could know, that there was--there were good grounds for believing the soul would continue to exist. I've said I don't find those grounds so convincing. But even if we didn't think we could show that the soul would continue to exist, at least it could, it would make perfect sense to think about it continuing to exist. And so I could survive the death of my body. In contrast, it looks--Prospects don't look so promising for surviving my death of my body if we don't believe in dualism, if we're physicalists. If a person's just a P-functioning body, how could it be that after the death of his body he's still around? Well, we'll say more about that a little bit later. Come back to the soul view. It's me as long as it's the same soul. It's not me if it's a different soul. Now consider the following possibility. Suppose that over the weekend, at 3:00 a.M., Saturday night, Sunday morning, while I'm asleep, God replaces my soul with a different soul, hooks it up to the body, gives that soul, that replacement soul, all of my memories, all of my beliefs, all of my desires, all of my intentions. Somebody wakes up Sunday morning and says, "Hey, it's a great day. Wonderful to be alive. I'm Shelly Kagan. Got to get to work." Whatever it is. Says "I'm Shelly Kagan"; but he's not. According to the soul view, he's not. Because according to the soul theory of personal identity, to be me that person's got to have my soul. And in this story, he doesn't have my soul. My soul got destroyed, let's suppose, 3:00 a.M. Sunday morning. A new soul got created. It's not me. There's a person there, all right. It's a person that doesn't have a very long history. Maybe he'll go on to have a long history. But it's a different extended through space and time person than the one you're thinking about right now. Because, according to the soul view, to be me it's got to have the same soul and we just stipulated, not the same soul. Think about what that means. If God were to replace my soul Saturday night, I die. And the thing that wakes up Sunday isn't me. Of course, he'd think he was me. He'd think to himself, "I'm the very same person who was lecturing about philosophy last week." But he'd be wrong. It isn't the same person, because it's not the same soul. He'd be wrong and--notice this-- there'd be no way at all he could tell. He could check his beliefs. He can check his desires. He can check his memories. But that's not the key to personal identity, according to the soul view. The key to personal identity, according to the soul view, is having the very same soul. You can't check that. You can't see the soul to see if it's the same one. So if this were to happen to him, he wouldn't be Shelly Kagan, the person who'd been lecturing last week. But there'd be no way at all he could know that. And now the question you would need to ask yourself is, "How do you know this didn't happen to you last night?" You woke up this morning thinking, I'm the very same person-- Joe, Linda, Sally, whatever it is-- the very same person who was in class yesterday. How do you know? How could you possibly know? If God replaced your soul with a new one, destroyed the old one, gave the new one all the old memories, beliefs, desires, goals, and so forth, that person who was in class last week, yesterday, died. The person who's here now hasn't been around 10 years, 20 years, what have you. You were born a few hours ago. And there'd be no way at all that you could possibly tell. How do you know, not only that it didn't happen to you last night, how do you know something like this doesn't happen every single night, every hour on the hour, every minute, every second? God whips out the old soul, destroys it, puts in a new one with-- Maybe souls only last for a minute and a half. If that was happening, then people don't last very long. Bodies may last 20 years, 50 years, 80 years, 100 years, but people would only last an hour or, if it's every minute substitution, a minute. And you'd never possibly be able to tell. Now these worries were raised by John Locke, the great British philosopher, and he thought, this is too big a pill to swallow. This is too big a bullet to bite. We can't take seriously the suggestion that there's no way at all to tell whether it was still me from the one day to the next, from one hour to the next, from one minute to the next. Just not plausible. It's not that there's anything incoherent about this view. It doesn't say anything logically contradictory about this view. You just have to ask yourself, "Could this really be what personal identity is all about? That there'd be no way at all to tell whether I've survived from one minute to the next, from one hour to the next?" Locke thought no. You couldn't possibly take this view seriously if you thought about what it meant. Notice, this is not an argument that souls don't exist. If you find this argument convincing, what it's an argument for is the claim that even if souls do exist, they may not be the key to personal identity. And so what we have to ask ourselves is, what's the alternative? What better suggestion is there for what we could point to as the metaphysical glue, the key to personal identity? And that's the question that we'll take up next time. 



 Chapter 10: 人格同一性（二）：肉体理论及人格理论


Last time, we turned to the question of what the metaphysical key to personal identity might be. What makes it be the case that one person, some person that exists in the future, is the same person as me. The first approach to this that we considered was the soul theory of personal identity: the key to being the same person is having the same soul. Same soul, same person. Different soul, different person. And the difficulty with that approach, even if we bracket the question whether or not there are souls, the difficulty with that approach was that it seems as though the soul could constantly be changing while the personality, as we might call it, stays the same. I have the same beliefs, memories, desires, goals, preferences and so forth. But the soul underneath it all keeps being swapped every five minutes. If the soul theory of personal identity were right, that would not be me. I would be--every five minutes that person would die and we'd have a new person, despite having the same personality. Most of us find that a rather difficult thing to believe, that the person could be constantly changing in this way, without having any way at all to tell. And if we're not willing to accept that implication, it seems as though we need to reject The soul theory of personal identity. Now, I use this cumbersome phrase because, of course, I'm not here talking about rejecting the existence of souls. What I'm considering right now is the question whether sameness of soul is the key to being the same person. And this is a-- There's a logical distinction here that's worth drawing. Even if you believe in souls, you don't have to say that having the very same soul is the key to being the very same person. And trivially, of course, if you don't believe in souls, if you don't believe that souls exist, then you certainly can't appeal to the existence of souls, the continuity of soul, the sameness of soul, as the key to personal identity. But we might then ask, "Well what's the alternative?" Now, the natural alternative is to say, "The key to being the same person is not the sameness of the soul, whether or not it exists, but rather having the very same body." And again, although I'm not going to go on and on about this point, it's worth noticing that even if you do believe that souls exist, nothing stops you from accepting the body theory of personal identity. Nothing rules out the possibility that having the very same body is the key to being the very same person over time. Even if you believe in souls, you can accept the body theory. And it certainly looks as though if you don't believe in souls, you have to accept the body theory of personal identity. Now, as it turns out, that appearance is deceptive. There are still other alternatives open to the physicalist, but let's come to that other alternative later. Let's take a few minutes and consider the nature of the body theory, the body theory of personal identity. On this theory, of course, the secret to being the same person is having the same body. So when we ask, well, you remember last lecture I was talking about how there'd be somebody here lecturing to you, philosophy, on Tuesday. Well, here somebody is. Is that the same person? Is the person who's lecturing to you now the same person as the person who was lecturing to you before? According to the body theory, the answer is--turns on the question, "Well, is this the same body as the lump of flesh and bone that was here last week?" If it is--and by the by it is-- if it is, then it's the same person. So am I the person who was lecturing to you last week? Yes, I am, because it's the very same body. That's what the body theory says. And unlike souls, where it's all rather mysterious how you could tell whether soul swapping was taking place or not, it's not all that mysterious how we check out to see whether the same body's been around. Even though you didn't do it, you could have snuck into my house, watched my body go to sleep, get up in the morning, followed the body around over the course of the day, see it go to sleep again. You could have tracked that body through space and time and said, "Hey look. It's the very same body." In the same way that we are able to track in principle cars, our earlier example, and talk about yeah, it's the same hunk of metal and wire and rubber and plastic. This is the same hunk, same body. All right, same body, same person. That's the body theory of personal identity. Now, if we accept the body theory, then of course if we turn to the question, "Could I survive my death? Could I survive the death of my body?" At first glance, it looks as though the answer's going to have to be, "Well, of course not." Because when my body dies, then, oh eventually the body begins to decay. It decomposes, turns into molecules which get absorbed into the soil or what have you. This may take years or decades or even centuries. But my body no longer exists after death of my body. And so how could I survive the death of my body, if for me to survive the death of my body, there's got to be somebody who's me, and if being me requires it being the same body, my body would have to still be around, but it's not. That's what it looks like at first glance. But at second glance we see that there's at least a logical possibility of surviving the death of my body. All it takes is for my body to be put back together. Bodily resurrection. Now I'm not going to here pursue the question of, "Do we believe bodily resurrection occurs or will occur?" I'll note that there have been religious traditions that have taught and believed in this possibility. In particular, it's probably worth mentioning that early Christians believed in something like the body theory of personal identity and believed in bodily resurrection that would happen on Judgment Day. We can certainly understand the possibility that God would perform a miracle, put the molecules back together, turn the body back on. Same body, same person, come Judgment Day. That's the possibility. So it's at least worth emphasizing the fact that even if we don't believe in souls, we could still believe in the possibility of surviving one's death, the death of one's body, if we're willing to believe in bodily resurrection. Well, that's how it looks. Now let's take a harder look. Talking that way assumes that when you put the body back together, when God puts the body back together on Judgment Day, that that's still my body. Is that right? I'm inclined to think it is right. If God gathers up all the various molecules that had composed my body, reassembles them in the right order, putting this calcium molecule next to that hydrogen molecule and so forth and so on, reassembles them in the right way-- obviously, if what He makes out of my body's molecules is a Cadillac, then that's not my body-- but if He puts them together in the right way, that seems like it should be my body. So here's an analogy to give you a sense of what's going on. Suppose I take my watch to the jeweler because it stopped working. And in order to clean it and fix it, repair it, what the jeweler does is he takes it apart. He takes the rust off of the gears, if there are still gears in watches. Imagine it's an old stop watch. And he cleans all the pieces and buffs them and polishes them and then reassembles the whole thing. And a week later, I come back and ask, "Where's my watch?" And he hands it to me. Well, all well and good. Now imagine some metaphysician saying, "Wait a minute, buster. Not so quick. That's not my watch. Admittedly, it's composed of all the very same pieces that made up my watch. Admittedly, all these pieces are in the very same order as my watch, but still that's not my watch." On the contrary, it seems to me the right thing to say about that example is, "No, that is my watch." My watch was disassembled for a period of time. Perhaps we should say my watch didn't exist during that period of time. But it got put back together. Now that's my watch. If that's the right thing to say about the watch-- and it does seem to me to be the right thing to say about the watch-- then God could presumably do the same thing on Judgment Day. He could take our molecules, which had been scattered, put them back together and say, "Ha! That's your body." And if the body theory of personal identity is right, well, that would be me. So it seems to me. But there's a different example that we have to worry about as well, which argues against this proposal that the body could decompose and then be recomposed. This is an example that's due to Peter van Inwagen. He's a contemporary metaphysician, teaches at Notre Dame. Suppose that my son builds a tower out of wooden blocks. We have a set of wooden blocks at home. Suppose that he builds some elaborate tower. It's very impressive. And he says, "Please show it to mom when she comes home." And he goes to bed. And I'm very good. I'm cleaning up the house after he goes to bed and oops, I knock over the tower. I say, "Oh my god, he's going to be so angry. I promised him I'd be careful." So what I do is I take the blocks and I put them back together, building a tower in the very same shape and the very same structure, the very same order as the tower that my son had built. And in fact I'm so careful-- perhaps the blocks are numbered-- I'm so careful that every block is in exactly the same position as in the case where my son built it. All right, I rebuild or I build this tower and my wife comes home and I say, "Look what our son built. This is the tower that our son built." Ah, that doesn't sound right. That's not the tower that our son built. That's a tower that I built. This is a duplicate tower. Sure, if my son were to wake up and I didn't tell him, he wouldn't know that it was a duplicate. But when you take a wooden block tower apart and then put the pieces back together, piece for piece, duplicate, you don't have the very same tower that you started out with. That's what van Inwagen says and, I've got to admit, sounds right to me. If I were to point to that tower and say, "Ari built that," I'd be saying something false. "That's the very same tower that Ari built." No, I'd be saying something false. So van Inwagen concludes, if you have an object and you take it apart and then put it all back together again, you don't have the very same object that you started out with. So even if Judgment Day were to come, and God were to reassemble the molecules and resurrect the body, it's not the very same body that you started out with. And if having the very same body is the key to personal identity, it's not the same person. Come Judgment Day, we've got a duplicate of me, but we don't have me. That's what van Inwagen would say, if that's the way bodily resurrection would work. I don't know, theology aside, I don't know what to say about the metaphysical questions. When I think about the tower case, I do find myself inclined to say, with van Inwagen, that's not the tower my son built. But when I think about the watch case, I find myself saying that is the very same watch. Now, all I can do is invite you to think about these two cases and ask yourself, what should we say here? Of course, for those people who think it really is the same tower, no problem. Then we say, the watch and the tower, in both cases, it's the very same object when it's reassembled. Reassemble the body, that'll be the very same body as well. For those people who say, "Yeah, van Inwagen was right about the tower, and the same thing would be true about the watch. The reassembled watch isn't the very same watch," then we have to say bodily resurrection would not be the very same body. So that wouldn't be me waking up on Judgment Day. The alternative is to try to find some relevant difference between the watch case and the tower case. Something that allows us to say that "Well, when you reassemble the watch it is the same watch. When you reassemble the tower, it's not the same tower. Here's the explanation of why those two things work differently in the reassembly cases." And then of course, we'd have to further investigate whether when you reassemble a body, is it more like the watch case or is it more like the tower case? I just have to confess, I don't know what the best thing to say about these cases is. I find myself inclined to think reassembled watch, same watch. Reassembled tower, not same tower. Maybe there's a difference there. I don't have a good theory as to what the difference is. Since I don't have a good theory as to what the difference is, I'm not in a good position to decide whether a reassembled body would be the same body or a different body. I don't know. So there's metaphysical work to be done here by anybody who's at least interested in getting this theory of identity worked out properly. Still, at least the possibility that we could work this out is still there. So I suppose there's still at least the possibility that bodily resurrection would be coherent in such a way that it would still be the same body. So if we accept the body theory, could there be life after death? Could there be survival of the death of my body? Seems like, as far as I can tell, it's still a possibility, although there's some puzzles here that I don't know how to see my way through. Mind you, that's not to say that I myself do believe that there will be a Judgment Day, and on that day God will reassemble the bodies. But it at least seems like a coherent possibility. Let's refine the body view. I've been suggesting that the key here, the idea of whether it's the same person or not, is whether it's the same body. But of course as we know in thinking about familiar objects, we don't need to have every single piece of an object, of an entity, stay the same to have the same thing. So I think I previously talked about the steering wheel in my car. Every time I drive the steering wheel in my car, I rub off some atoms. But that's okay. It's still the very same physical object. The steering wheel is-- having the same steering wheel is compatible with changing of a few pieces. The same thing is true for bodies, right? You get sunburned, your skin peels, you've lost some atoms in your body. It doesn't really matter. It's still the very same body. So if body is the key to personal identity, we don't have to worry about the fact that we're constantly gaining and losing atoms. Yes, question? Good. The question was, "What about somebody who loses a huge amount of weight?" They feel different. People treat them different. What about that case? Well, I think if we're doing metaphysics, as opposed to psychology--Psychologically, we understand why losing weight might make a real difference as to how you feel about yourself. And we might even say, loosely, it's as though she's a whole new person. But strictly speaking, we don't think it is literally a whole new person. It's not as though we say, "Poor Linda died when she entered the spa. Or a week into the spa when she dropped those 50 pounds. Somebody else who remembers all of Linda's childhood, some imitator came along." We don't say "different person." We say "same person, lost a lot of weight." Now that's not a problem for the body view, because on the body view, the question is, is it the same body? And what we want to say is, of course, look, just like it's still your body even if you break your arm. Even though--it's still your body after you've eaten dinner, and so now some molecules have been absorbed into your body that weren't there before. It's still your body after you lose some molecules, even a lot of molecules. There can be changes in your body that are compatible with it still being the same body. Now, we might worry about the--which changes? Are all the changes? You know, it's certainly not as though any change will do. I mean, suppose what happens is Linda goes to bed and what we do in the middle of the night is we take away that body and put some new body there. Well that 100% change, that's clearly too much. Change of some small percentage, from eating, not a problem. Change from a somewhat larger percentage of losing a fair bit of weight doesn't seem to be a problem. So which changes in bodies make for a different body and which changes in body make for the same body? And in particular, how should we run that if we're thinking about the body as the key to personal identity? I think if we have that question in front of our minds, we're going to want to say not all parts of the body are equally important. You lose a fair bit of weight, some fat from your gut, not a problem. Here's one of my favorite examples. In the Star Wars movies, Darth Vader whips out his light saber and slashes off the hand of Luke Skywalker. "Luke, I am your father." "No!" Then the hand goes, right? The very next scene --this has always amazed me--the very next scene, Luke's got an artificial hand that's been attached to his body and they never even mention it again. No one says, "Oh, poor Luke. He died when Darth Vader cut off the hand." It seems pretty clear that not all parts of the body matter. You can lose a hand and still survive. Same body, except now without a hand. Suppose Darth Vader had aimed a little higher and cut off Luke's entire arm. It would still be Luke. It would still be Luke's body. Suppose, even worse, Darth Vader slices off both arms and both legs. It would still be Luke. It would still be Luke's body, though now without arms and legs. What part of the body,if any, is essential? Well here's a proposal. It seems to me we'd say something rather different if what happened was that what got destroyed was Luke's brain. Suppose that Darth Vader uses the force-- the dark side of the force of course-- Darth Vader uses the dark side of the force to destroy, to turn into pea soup, Luke Skywalker's brain. Now I think we might want to say, "Well look, no more Luke." And if what happens is they drag out some replacement brain, it's still not Luke. At least, that's a possible version of the body view. According to this version, which I take to be the most promising, the best version of the body view, the crucial question in thinking about personal identity is whether it's the same body-- but not all parts of the body matter equally. The most important part of the body is the brain. Well, why the brain? No surprise there, because of course the brain is the part, we now know, the brain is the part of the body that is the house of your personality, your beliefs, your desires, your fears, your ambitions, your goals, your memories. That's all housed in the brain. And so that's the part of the brain that's the key part of the body for the purpose of personal identity. That's what I'm inclined to think is the best version of the body view. We find examples of this thought, that the brain is the key, in odd places. So let me actually share one with you. This was something from the Internet that my brother sent to me some years ago. It purports to be from a transcript from an actual trial in which a lawyer's cross examining the doctor. And you'll see. I don't actually know whether it's true or not, whether it's just somebody made it up. But it purports to be true. Question: Doctor, before you performed the autopsy, did you check for a pulse? Answer: No. Question: Did you check for blood pressure? Answer: No. Question: Did you check for breathing? Answer: No. Question: So then it is possible that the patient was alive when you began the autopsy? Answer: No. Question: How can you be so sure, doctor? Answer: Because his brain was sitting on my desk in a jar. Question: But could the patient have still been alive nevertheless? Answer: It is possible that he could have been alive and practicing law somewhere. The point--The reason that this is funny, other than of course the obvious moral, which is that lawyers are morons, is that of course. Why is it so clear the lawyer's got to be a moron? Because of course we think, look, lose a hand, the guy could still be alive. Lose an arm, lose a leg. Lose the brain, he's not alive. So again this is, this is hardly philosophical proof, but it shows that we're drawn to the thought that the key part of the body is the brain. Now, think about what the implication of holding that view. Suppose we adopt that version of the body view. If I get a liver transplant, so here I am and we take out my liver and we put Jones' liver inside. I've gotten a liver transplant. It's still me. Suppose we rip out my heart and put Jones' heart in here. I've gotten a heart transplant. It's still me. Suppose we rip out my lungs and put in Jones' lungs. I've gotten a lung transplant. It's still me. Suppose we rip out my brain, put in Jones' brain. Have I gotten a brain transplant? No. What's happened is that Jones has gotten a body transplant. Or, as we might put it, a torso transplant. If we accept this version of the body theory, we say the crucial part of the body for personal identity is not sameness of torso. The crucial part of the body is sameness of brain. Just like "Follow the soul" was the answer if we believe in the soul theory of personal identity, if we believe in the brain version of the body theory of personal identity, same person or not? Follow the brain. Same brain, same person. Different brain, different person. As I've now been saying several times, I think that's the best version of the body view, although not all body theorists believe that. As you know from reading your Perry, the assigned reading, his Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality, the heroine of that story, Gertrude Gertrude actually thinks the key part of the body is the torso. Follow the torso, follow the person. That's what she thinks. I'm inclined to say, no. In those moods, when I accept the body theory, I'm inclined to think, no, follow the brain. Gertrude would presumably say you get a brain transplant, you got a brain transplant, because it's the same torso. I want to say, as a fan of the brain theory, you get a brain transplant, what's really happened is somebody else has gotten a torso transplant. Follow the brain. How much of the brain? Do we need all of the brain? Well, just like we didn't have to follow the parts of the body that aren't essential for housing the personality, we might ask ourselves, "Do we need all of the brain to house the personality?" Research suggests that there's a fair bit of redundancy in the brain. You can lose portions of the brain and still have a perfectly functioning, P-functioning person. Some of you may know that there have been experiments in which, for one reason or the other, the two halves of the brain have been separated. And you often end up there with, well, something closer to two persons being housed within one skull, because they can often still communicate in various ways. We don't quite get that. I gather that the best research suggests we don't really have complete redundancy with hemispheres. But suppose that we did. Let's be science-fictiony. Suppose that, as a kind of backup security, what evolution has done is produced so much redundancy in the brain that either half of the brain would suffice. All right, so think about our brain transplant example. So there's an accident with Jones and Smith. Jones's torso gets destroyed. His brain is fine. Smith's brain has gotten destroyed. His torso is fine. We take Jones's brain; we put it in Smith's torso. We hook up all the wires, as it were. The thing wakes up. Who is that? Jones's brain, Smith's torso. Follow the brain. That's Jones that woke up. Version two. Horrible accident. Jones's torso has been destroyed and the left half of his brain has been destroyed. But the right half of his brain is still there. Smith's torso is fine, but his entire brain has been destroyed. We take the right half of Jones's brain, put it into Smith's torso, hook up all the wires the right way, the thing wakes up. Who is it? It's Jones. Follow the brain, and more particularly, follow however much of the brain it takes to have enough of the brain there to still give you the memories, beliefs, desires, and so forth and so on. If it were true--it probably isn't true, but if it were true-- that half of the brain was enough, then half the brain would be enough. That would be Jones that woke up. Question? Great. The question was, "On this theory, what do we say about the case where we take the two halves of Jones's brain, split them, put them in two different torsos. They both wake up. Would they both be Jones?" That's a wonderful question. It's a wonderful case to think about and, indeed, I am going to come back to it. But I just want to bracket it for the time being. But it's a great question to keep in mind as you think about the plausibility of the body theory. All right, so I'm inclined to think that the best version of the body theory has to do with following the brain. So one thing that a physicalist, who does not believe in souls, one thing that a physicalist could say is, "What's the key to personal identity? The body. Sameness of body." And then I'm inclined to think the best version of the body view is the brain view. So that's something that a physicalist can say. And for that matter, it's something that a soul, somebody who believes in souls, could say as well: even though there are souls, that may not be the key to personal identity. Maybe sameness of body is the key to personal identity. That's something a physicalist or dualist can say. But, and this is not-- to make good on a promissory note I offered earlier. It's not the only view available to physicalists or, for that matter, dualists. Even if there are no souls, we don't have to say that the key to personal identity is the sameness of the body. We could instead say the key to personal identity is the sameness of the personality. After all, go back to the Lockean worries about the soul theory of personal identity. It seemed very hard to believe that it isn't the same person when the memories and beliefs and desires and goals and ambitions and fears are all the same, even if a soul is constantly changing. It seems as though we wanted to say same person. Why? Roughly speaking, because it's the same personality. And with the body view, when I started arguing a few moments ago that the best version of the body view was the brain view, why did that seem plausible? Why didn't we say that Luke died when he lost his wrist? Because the brain, after all, was the part of the body that houses the personality. Enough of the brain was good enough, I said. What counts as good enough? Enough to keep the personality. Well, if what we think is really important here is the personality, why don't we just say the key to personal identity is the personality? Let's just say it's me, provided that there's somebody who's got the same set of beliefs, desires, goals, memories, ambitions, fears. To coin a word, the same "Personality." So the secret to personal identity on this new proposal isn't sameness of body, it's sameness of personality. Now, it's important to bear in mind that this view is perfectly compatible with being a physicalist. After all, we're not saying that in order to have personalities you need to have something nonphysical. As physicalists, we can still say that the basis of personality is that there are bodies that are functioning in certain ways. But for all that, the key to the same person could have to do with the personality rather than the sameness of bodies. Of course, normally the way you get the same personality is by having the same body. Still, if we ask, "What's doing the metaphysical work here? What's the key to being the same person?" we can say sameness of body gave us the same personality, but it was sameness of personality that made it be the very same person. Could there be some way to get sameness of personality while not having sameness of body? Maybe. Suppose that we had some disease. The doctor tells me the horrible news that I'm going to have some disease that's going to eventually turn my brain into pea soup. But luckily, just before it does it, they can take all of my personality and put it into an artificial replacement brain. So there'll be --just like you can have artificial hearts, artificial livers, you can have artificial brains, which will get imprinted with the same personality. Same memory, same beliefs, same desires, same fears, same goals. We obviously can't do that. This is a science fiction story. But at least it allows you to see how the body and the personality could come apart. And so we could have same personality without literally the same brain. If personality is the key to personal identity, that would still be me. Hold off again for a few minutes, at least, on the question, "So what should we believe here, the body, the personality view?" Let's try to refine the personality theory. So again, the point I was just emphasizing was even if we accept the personality theory, this doesn't threaten our being physicalists. We can still say the reason that we've got the same personality in the normal case, is there's some physical explanation of what houses the personality. But for all that, the key to personal identity is same personality. Notice, by the way, that somebody who believes in souls could also accept the personality theory of personal identity. Locke believed in souls. He just didn't think they were the key to personal identity. So you might think, "Oh no. The physicalist is wrong when the physicalist says that personality-- memory, belief, consciousness, what have you--is housed or based in the body. It's based in an immaterial soul." Dualists could say that. And yet, for all that, the dualist could consistently say, "Still, same soul is not the key to personal identity. Same personality is the key to personal identity. If God replaces my soul every 10 minutes, as long as He does it in such a way as to imprint the very same personality on the soul, it doesn't matter any more than it didn't matter whether or not some of my body parts were changing." So the personality theory of personal identity can be accepted by physicalists and it can be accepted by dualists. So, just to keep score, right now we've got three basic theories of personal identity on the table. The soul theory, the key to personal identity is the same soul. The body theory, the key to personal identity is the same body. Where the best version, I think, is the brain version of the body theory. And the personality theory, the key to personal identity is having the very same personality. Well again, we've got to be careful about refining this. Just like we all agreed, I suppose, that you can have the very same body, even though some of the parts come and go, atoms get added, other atoms get knocked off. We can say, we'd better say, that you can have the very same personality even if some of the elements in your personality change. After all, we defined the personality in terms of it being a set of beliefs and memories and desires and goals and fears and so forth. But those things are constantly changing. I have all sorts of memories now that I didn't have when I was 10. I have memories of getting married, for example. I wasn't married when I was 10. So does the personality theorist have to say, "Uh-oh, different personality. That kid no longer exists. That person died, got married, no memories, died." If we say that, we have very, very short lives. Because after all, right now I've got some memories that I didn't have two hours ago. I have some memories I didn't have 20 minutes ago. If every time you got a new memory you had a new personality and the personality theory said having the very same personality was the key to survival, then none of us survive more than a few seconds. Well, the answer presumably is going to be that the best version of the personality theory doesn't require item for item having the very same beliefs, memories, desires, and so forth. But instead requires enough gradual overlap. Your personality can change and evolve over time. So here I am as a 10 year old child. I've got certain desires, certain memories. As the year goes by, I get some new memories. I lose some of my goals. I no longer--When I was 10, when I grew up I wanted to be a trash collector. That was my first chosen profession. At some point I gave up that desire. I didn't want to be a trash collector anymore. I wanted to be, I kid you not, I wanted to be a logician when I was a teenager. I wanted to study symbolic logic. So at a certain point I gave that up. So my memories, my desires were changing, but they all changed gradually. I lost some old memories. I don't remember everything I knew or remembered when I was 10. When I was 10, I had pretty vivid memories of kindergarten. Now I have very sketchy memories of kindergarten. Still, it wasn't abrupt. It was gradual. There was this slow evolution of the personality. And so when the personality theorist says the key to personal identity is the same personality, they don't' mean literally the very same set of beliefs and desires. They mean, rather, the same slowly evolving personality. Here's an analogy. Suppose I had a rope that stretched from that end of the room all the way across to this end of the room. Very same rope at that end as this end. What makes up a rope? Well, as you know, ropes are basically bundles of fibers, very thin fibers that have been woven together in a certain way. But the interesting thing is the fibers themselves aren't actually all that long. They might be a couple of inches or at most a foot or so. And so no single fiber stretches all the way across the room. Or even if some fibers did, most of the fibers don't. Does that force us to say, "Ah, so it's not the very same rope at the end as at the beginning"? No. We don't have to say that at all. What we want to say is, "It's the same rope as long as there's this pattern of overlapping fibers." Certain fibers end, but most of the fibers are continuing. Some new fibers get introduced. They continue for a while. Eventually maybe those fibers end, but some new fibers have been introduced in the meantime. As long as it's not abrupt. Imagine I take my scissors and cut out a foot in the middle. Then we'd say there isn't the right kind of pattern of overlap and continuity. Now we really do have two ropes-- one rope here, one rope there. But if, in contrast, there is the right kind of pattern of overlap and continuity, same rope, even though, even if no single fiber makes it all the way across. Something analogous needs to be said by the personality theorist. Even if I have few or no memories identical to the ones that I had when I was 10, that's okay. We can still say it's the same personality, the same evolving personality, so long as there's a pattern of overlap and continuity. New memories get added, some memories get lost. New goals get added, some goals get lost. New beliefs get added, some beliefs get lost. There might be few beliefs, desires, goals that made it all the way through. But as long as there's the right kind of overlap and continuity, same personality. All right, so what have we got? Three views-- soul view, body view, personality view. Three rival theories about the key to personal identity. Now, which of these is right? Well, I don't myself believe in souls, it's hardly going to surprise you to learn that I don't think the soul theory of personal identity is right. For me, the choice boils down to the choice between the body theory of personal identity and the personality theory of personal identity. Of course, in real life, they go hand in hand. In ordinary cases at least, same body, same personality. Both theories are going to say it's the very same person. And if you believe in souls, you are likely to think, same soul as well. In ordinary cases, you have the same soul, same body, same personality, same person. To think about which one of these is the key to personal identity, we need to think about cases, maybe somewhat fantastical, science-fictiony, in which they come apart. Cases in which bodies and personalities go their own ways, as it were. So that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to tell you a story in which your body ends up one place and your personality ends up someplace else. And I'm going to invite you to think about which of these two resulting end products is me. If you could figure out which one's you, that would tell you whether you think the body theory is the right theory or the personality theory is the right theory. Now, what's going to be our guide? I'm going to, rather gruesomely not in real life, a science fiction story-- I'm going to torture one of the two end products. I'm going to ask you, "Which one do you want to be tortured?" Or to put the point more properly, "Which one do you want to not be tortured?" Because I'm going to assume, I'm going to take it, that it's important to you that "you" not be tortured. So by seeing who you want to keep safe, this will help you see which one you think is you. Of course, I've got to be sure that you're thinking about this in the right way. Like some of you are probably good, moral individuals and you don't want anybody to be tortured. I say, "Ah, I'm about to torture Linda over there." You say, "No, no. Don't torture Linda." Still, if I were to say to you, "I'm about to torture you." You'd say, "No, no! Don't torture me!" And there'd be some extra little something when you said that, right? So I want to invite you to keep that extra little something in mind when we tell the stories, which we won't get to until next time, when we tell the stories next time, and I say, "Okay, who do you want to be tortured, this person or that person?" The question is, from that special egoistic perspective that we're all familiar with, which is the one you really care about? That's going to be our guide to deciding what's the key to personal identity. But to hear the stories, you've got to come back next lecture. 



 Chapter 11: 人格同一性（三）：人格理论的异议


We've distinguished three different views as to the secret or key to personal identity across time. There's the soul view, the body view, and the personality view. Putting aside, for the most part, the soul view, because I've argued that there are no souls-- although occasionally I bring it out just for the sake of comparison and contrast-- the main question we want to ask ourselves is how to choose between the body view and the personality view. The body view says follow the body. If somebody around in the future's got my body, that's me. The personality view says follow the personality, that is, the set of beliefs, desires, memories, goals, ambitions, and so forth. Somebody around in the future that's got my memories, my beliefs, my desires, that's me. How should we choose between these two views? As I mentioned at the end of last lecture, what I want to do is offer us a set of thought experiments. They've got to be thought experiments, because in real life, bodies and personalities go hand in hand. But by doing some science fiction experiments, we can take them apart and ask ourselves, "Which one do I think is me? When my body goes one way and my personality goes another way, where do I go?" Again, just to remind you, in order to get the intuitions actually flowing, what I'm going to do once I've separated the body and the personality this way, is torture one of the end products. So I'm going to be asking you to put yourself in the first person. Imagine this is happening to you. And ask yourself, "Which one do I want to be tortured? Or which one do I want to not be tortured?" Because that will give you some kind of evidence as to which one you take to be you. And think about this in that special first person ego-concerned way that comes naturally to us. Just bracket any moral concerns you may have about torturing other people or agreeing that somebody else should be tortured. For our purposes, right now, if I brought up a volunteer from the class- and I'm asking you--here's you, there's the other volunteer-- which one do you want to be tortured? It's, "Let that one be tortured. Don't let it happen to me." That's how we know this is me speaking. All right, so that's the question I'm going to ask you. I'll probably slip into talking about this experiment as though it's being done to me. But to get it vivid, you should think of it as though it's being done to you. I'll mention, just in passing, that these thought experiments that I'm about to give, I'm going to give a pair of them, come from Bernard Williams, who's a British philosopher. All right, so case number one. Here you are. The mad scientist has kidnapped you and he says: "I've been working on mind transfer machines. And what I'm going to do is I've got you and I've also kidnapped somebody else over here, Linda. And I'm going to hook you up to my machines and swap your minds. And what that means is, I'm going to read off the memories and the beliefs and the desires from your brain and read off the memories and desires and beliefs from Linda's brain. And then I'm going to electronically transfer Linda's memories and beliefs and so forth over here and implant them onto this brain. And take your memories and beliefs and so forth and implant them onto Linda's brain. First, we'll put you to sleep when we do all this procedure. Then when you wake up, you will wake up in Linda's body." There'll be something here that, you'll wake up and you'll say, "What am I doing in this new body? What happened to my beard? How come I'm speaking in this high female voice?" Whatever it is, but you'll think to yourself, "Well, here I am, Shelly Kagan. I seem to be inhabiting Linda's body. Don't know how that happened. Oh yes, the mad scientist kidnapped me and he transferred us, he swapped us. He swapped our bodies, swapped our minds. I guess the whole thing works." So the mad scientist explains all of this to you, but in order to give it a little kicker, because he's also an evil mad scientist-- that may be evil already, but because he's an evil mad scientist-- he says, "and then when I'm done--" So over here we've got Shelly's body but Linda's personality. So Linda thinking "What am I doing?" and "What am I doing in Shelly's body? How did I get a beard?" So over here, Linda, in Shelly's body. Over here, Shelly, in Linda's body. "I'm going to torture one of these. But because I'm a generous evil mad scientist, I want to ask you which one should I torture?" Now, when I think about this, and again, I'm inviting you to think about this in the first person, so this is happening to you. When I think about this, I say "Torture the one over here." I'm going to be over here in Linda's body, horrified at what's been going on, horrified that she's being tortured, but at least it's not happening to me. That's the intuition I've got when I think about this case. When the mad scientist asks me, "Which one of these two should I torture?" I say, "Torture this one." Because if I were to say "Torture this one" and then he does it, think about what's going to happen. I'll be thinking "I'm Shelly Kagan. Oh, this is what a horrible situation. Oh, the pain, the pain! Stop the pain! Make it go away!" I don't want that to happen to me. If this one's being tortured, nobody's thinking to himself, "Oh, I'm Shelly Kagan in horrible pain." So I want this one to be tortured. All right, that's the intuition I've got about the case. Now, if you've got that same intuition, think about the implications of that intuition. You're saying that I, Shelly Kagan, ended up over here. But that's not my body. This is Linda's body. Shelly Kagan's old body is over here. But this is the one that's me, because this is the one that I don't want to have tortured. So the body isn't the key to personal identity. Personality is the key to personal identity. This has got my personality, my memories of growing up in Chicago, becoming a philosopher, my thoughts about what I want to have happen to my children, my fears about how I'm going to explain what's going on to my wife. Whatever it is, this is the Shelly Kagan personality over here. This is me. That follows then that this intuition suggests that what I find intuitively plausible is the personality theory of personal identity. Now, let's tell a different story. Both of these stories, as I say, come from Bernard Williams. Bernard Williams says here's another example we can think about. Mad scientist, again, kidnaps you, kidnaps Linda. And he says, "Shelly, I've got some news for you." I'm switching between you and me. He says, "Shelly, I've got some news for you. I'm going to torture you. I say, "No, no! Please don't do it to me! Please, please, don't torture me!" He says, "Well, you know, I'm in the mad scientist business. This is what I do. I'm going to torture you." He says, "But because I'm a generous mad scientist, before I torture you, what I'm going to do is give you amnesia. I'm going to completely scrub clean your brain so that you won't remember that you're Shelly Kagan. You won't have any memories of growing up in Chicago. You won't have any memories of deciding to become a philosopher. You won't remember getting married or having children. You won't remember the--all,you won't have any desire. The whole thing wiped clean, complete perfect amnesia before I torture you. Don't you feel better?" No, I don't feel better. I'm still going to be tortured and now we've added insult to injury. I've got amnesia as well as being tortured. No comfort there. "Well," He says, "Look, I'll make the deal sweeter for you. After I give you amnesia, before I torture you, I will drive you insane and make you believe that you're Linda. I've been studying Linda. There she is. I've been reading her psychology by looking at her brain waves and so forth and so on. And so I'm going to delude you into thinking that you're Linda. I'm going to make you think 'oh, I'm Linda.' You won't talk like that. 'Oh, I'm Linda.' And you'll have the memories of Linda growing up in Pennsylvania and you'll remember Linda's family and, like Linda, you'll want to be an author, or whatever it is that Linda wants to be. And then I'll torture you. Are you happy now?" No, I'm not happy now. First of all, I'm being tortured. I was given amnesia. And now you've driven me crazy and make me-- deluded me into thinking that I'm Linda. No comfort there. He says, "Okay, last attempt to make-- you're not being very reasonable," he says. "Last attempt, I'm going to, after I drive you crazy and make you think you're Linda, I'm going to do the corresponding thing for Linda. I'm going to give her amnesia and then I'm going to drive her crazy and make her think that she's Shelly. Give her all of your memories and beliefs and desires. Now is it okay that I'm going to torture you?" No. It hardly makes it-- it was bad enough I was being tortured and given amnesia and driven insane. It doesn't really make it any better that you're also going to give amnesia and drive insane somebody else. Don't torture me! If you've got to torture somebody, I say in my nonethical mood, if you've got to torture somebody, do it to her. Don't do it to me. When I think about this second case, that's my intuition. Now, think about the implications of this second case for the theory of personal identity. If I don't want this thing over here to be tortured, that must be because I think it's me. But if it's me, what's the key to personal identity? Well, not personality, because after all, this doesn't end up with Shelly Kagan's personality before the torture. Shelly Kagan's personality is over there. This is Shelly Kagan's body and that suggests if I don't want this to be tortured, it's because I believe in the body theory of personal identity. Follow the body, not follow the personality. Even though he swapped our personalities, it's still me he's torturing. That's the intuition I've got when I think about Bernard Williams' second case. Now, we're in a bit of a pickle here, from the philosophical point of view. Because when we've thought about the first case, the intuition seemed to be, ah, personality's the key to personal identity. But when we thought about the second case, the intuition seems to be, huh, body is the key to personal identity. That's bad, right? Two different cases give us two different, diametrically opposed, answers on the very same question. One sec. And it's worse still-- Of course, if you don't share the intuitions that I just--I was being honest with you. Those really are my intuitions when I think about these cases. If you're with me, you're in a philosophical problem. If you're not with me, if you didn't have the same intuitions, then maybe you don't have a problem. But I've got a problem. And it's worse still because it's not really, if we're careful and think about it, it's not really as though we have two different cases and intuitively we want to give different answers to those two different cases. Really, all we've got there is just one case. It's the very same case, the very same story, that I told two different times. In both cases, before the torturing ends, goes in, there's Shelly Kagan's body over here with Linda's personality and there's Linda's body over here with Shelly Kagan's personality. And we're asking, "Which one do you want to be tortured?" It's the very same setup. I just emphasized different elements in a way to manipulate your intuitions. But it's the very same case. It can't be that in one of them, follow the body and the other one, follow personality. So it's very hard to know what moral should we draw. The appeal to intuition, thinking about these cases doesn't seem to take us very far. There's a question back there. Yeah? Nice suggestion. So the suggestion was this. When the mad scientist put my personality, Shelly Kagan personality, onto Linda's body, he had to modify Linda's brain. And in modifying Linda's brain-- this was the question that was just raised-- hasn't he actually made that brain more like Shelly Kagan's brain than Linda's brain? And if that's right, shouldn't we say--remember, the best form of the body view, I argued previously, was the brain version. So if this is really Shelly Kagan's brain over here, then this isn't a problem for the body view. We were deceived when we said the body view said this is Shelly Kagan. Really, the body view, to wit, the best version of the body view, that is the brain version, now has to say, "Oh, we moved Shelly's brain and put it here." Well, if you're prepared to say that, then indeed you will be able to say, yeah, it's the body view. The body view says, "Do it to this one." Rather, " Don't do it to this one, because this is Shelly Kagan." I don't actually find myself though inclined to agree with you that this has become Shelly Kagan's brain. If you ask me, "Where's Shelly Kagan's legs?" They're still here. "Where's Shelly Kagan's heart?" It's still here. "Where's Shelly Kagan's brain?" It's still here. It's not as though what the scientist did was open up my skull, take the brain out. At least, if that's the way we're imagining it, don't imagine that! This is all electronic transfer. It's not as though he took the brain out and literally moved that hunk of tissue over here. All he's done is reprogram Linda's brain. Analogy here that might be helpful. Think of the difference between the computer and the programs and files saved on the computer. Personality is a little bit like a program that's running on the computer. Though we have to have not just the generic program, but the specific data files and databases and so forth. What the mad scientist did, in effect, was wipe out the hard drive, put in the other programs from the Shelly Kagan computer, but it's still the very same computer. It's still the same central processing unit, or so it seems to me. Of course, it's true that now, in a certain way, Linda's brain will be similar to the way that Shelly Kagan's brain had been before. In terms of how, as it were, the floppy drives are set up. But still where's, literally speaking, Shelly Kagan's brain? I want to say it's over there, not over here. There was another question or comment. Yeah. I'm not quite sure what the question is. So the thought is, look, over here we've got Shelly Kagan's body with Linda's personality. If we torture this one, this thing, whoever it is, is going to think to itself, "I'm Linda. I'm in horrible pain. I wish it would stop. I wonder whether I'll ever see Linda's husband again." Over here we've got Linda's body, Shelly Kagan's personality. If we torture this one-- of course to torture, you cause pain to bodies, but the pain gets felt in the mind. So over here, we've got something that's going to think to itself, "I'm Shelly Kagan. I'm in horrible pain. I wonder whether I'll ever see Shelly Kagan's wife again." Yes, of course, we're torturing bodies. By torturing the bodies we cause pain to the minds, the personalities, who have beliefs about who's hurting. What I'm inviting you to think about is which one, if you had to choose between these two gruesome scenarios, which one would you rather save? Which one would you rather protect? Which do you care more about? Making sure that your lump of flesh doesn't have its neurons hurt? Or making sure that the person who's thinking to yourself, "I'm Shelly Kagan" Or whatever your name is, that "I'm in pain." You don't want to be thinking, "I, Shelly Kagan, am in pain." Or if your name is Mary, "I'm Mary. I'm in pain." That's what we're trying to get straight on here. The trouble though is that you tell the very same story, two different times and I find myself sometimes being pulled this way, sometimes being pulled that way. So I can't use thinking about the Williams cases as a method of deciding what do I really believe, the body view or the personality view? I find, myself, you spin the story one way and I follow the body. You spin the story another way, and I follow the personality. If we're going to have a way to decide between these two theories, it seems as though we need some other kind of arguments. At least, I need some other kind of arguments, because of the intuitions I've got about the cases. So let me turn to a different approach to solving the question, answering the question, which one should we believe? It starts by raising a certain philosophical objection to the personality theory. It's going to say, look, the personality theory of personal identity has an implication that we cannot possibly accept. So we have to reject the view. And then become body theorists, if there are no souls. Here's the objection. It's a common enough objection. It's probably occurred to some of you. According to the personality theory, whether somebody is me depends on whether he's got my beliefs. For example, the belief that I'm Shelly Kagan, professor of philosophy at Yale University. Well, I'm a not an especially interesting fellow. So let's make it more dramatic and think about Napoleon. You've probably read about this thing. Every now and then there are some crazy people who think they're Napoleon. So imagine that there's right now somebody in an insane asylum in Michigan who's got the thought, "I am Napoleon." Well, the objection says, clearly this guy's just insane, right? He is not Napoleon. He's David Smith who grew up in Detroit or whatever. He just insanely believes he's Napoleon. Yet, the personality theory, the objection says, would tell us that he is Napoleon because he's got the beliefs of Napoleon. He's got Napoleon's personality. Since that's obviously the wrong thing to say about the case, we should reject the personality view. But not so quick. The personality view doesn't say anybody who has any elements at all of my personality is me. One belief in common is obviously not enough. Look, we all believe the earth is round. That's not enough to make somebody else me. Of course, the belief, "I am Napoleon" is a much rarer belief. I presume that none of you have that belief. I certainly don't have that belief. Napoleon had it and David Smith in Michigan's got it. But so what? One belief, even one very unusual belief's not enough to make somebody Napoleon, according to the personality theory. To be Napoleon, you've got to have the very same overall personality, which is a very big, complicated set of beliefs and desires and ambitions and memories. David Smith doesn't have that. David Smith in the insane asylum in Michigan does not remember conquering Europe. He doesn't remember being crowned emperor. He doesn't remember being defeated by the British. He doesn't have any of those memories. He probably doesn't even speak French. Napoleon spoke French. He doesn't have Napoleon's personality. So the David Smith case isn't really bothersome. It's not really a counterexample to the personality theory. The personality theory says, to be Napoleon, you've got to have Napoleon's personality. But David Smith doesn't. So, of course, we can all agree David Smith, despite thinking he's Napoleon, is not Napoleon. No problem here for the personality theory. But we could tweak the case. We could revise the case. Some foe of the personality theory could say, "Okay, imagine that this guy in Michigan does have Napoleon's personality. He's got the memories of being crowned emperor and being defeated, conquering Europe. He's got all of those memories." And, remember we want him to have Napoleon's personality. He doesn't have any David Smith memories. He doesn't have any memories of growing up in Detroit. How could Napoleon have memories of growing up in Detroit? Napoleon grew up in France. The objection then says even if this guy had all of Napoleon's memories, beliefs, desires, personality, still wouldn't be Napoleon. So the personality theory's got to go. Well, when I think about this example, I think, now we've got it right. That is, that is what the personality theory has to say about that case. But I'm not so confident anymore that it's the wrong thing to say. So think of this, as it were, from the point of view of Napoleon, right? So there was Napoleon in the 1800s conquering Europe and being crowned emperor, being defeated by the British, being sent to exile on, was it Elba, right? And I forget where Napoleon actually dies, but he's got memories of getting sick and ill and the light begins to fade and he goes unconscious. And then--well, we'll at least try to describe it this way--he wakes up. And he wakes up in Michigan. And he thinks to himself, "Hallo. Je suis, Napoleon! What am I doing in Michigan?" I don't speak French, so I'm going to drop that, right? " But the last thing I remember I was going to bed from my fatal illness on the Isle of Elba. How did I get over here? I wonder if there's any chance of reassembling my army and reconquering the world." If he had all of that, it's not so clear to me that it would be the wrong thing to say that, by golly, this is Napoleon. I mean, it would be totally bizarre. Things like this don't happen. But of course, we're doing science fiction stories here. So we'd say to ourselves, wouldn't we, somehow Napoleon has been reborn or reincarnated, taking over, by some sort of process of possession, the body of the former David Smith, but now it's Napoleon. I find myself thinking maybe that would be the right thing to say. Yeah? All right, so the thought was, look, this guy over here, David Smith's body with Napoleon's personality-- And let's be clear about this. There's no underlying David Smith personality still there, to have the counterexample or the example that we're after. It can't be that he's got mixed together memories of growing up in France and memories of growing up in Detroit. He never thinks to himself, "I'm David Smith. How did I become Napoleon?" If you got that junk, you don't have Napoleon's personality. He's just got Napoleon's personality through and through. Well, the question was, maybe that's not so. After all, he doesn't really have Napoleon's experiences, did he? Napoleon had the experience of being crowned emperor. But this guy didn't have the experience of being crowned emperor. Maybe what we should say is he thinks he remembers the experience of being crowned emperor, but it's a fake memory. It's an illusion, or a delusion, but he didn't really have the genuine memory. To have the genuine memory, he has to have been crowned emperor. And he wasn't crowned emperor; Napoleon was crowned emperor. Well, that's what we could say, but we can't say that until we decide he's not Napoleon. After all, if the personality theory is right, since he does have all of these memories, or semi-memories, or quasi-memories, or whatever we should call them. If that's the key, then it is Napoleon. So he is remembering being crowned emperor. If you want to say, no, no, no, those memories are illusions, it must be, because you don't think he's really Napoleon. In which case, what you're discovering is you don't really believe the personality theory. Why isn't he Napoleon? It's not his body. The body of Napoleon is not this body and to be Napoleon, you've got to have Napoleon's body. It's a possible position. That's the thought that the body theorists are trying to elicit in you when they offer these Napoleonesque counterexamples. You could match the personality as much as you want, but it's still not Napoleon. Don't you agree? That's what they say. And if you do agree, that shows you don't really accept the personality theory. I'm not going to try to settle this here. Who should we believe? The personality theory or the body theory? I'm trying to invite you to think about the implications and the differences between these views so as to get clearer in your own mind about which of these you accept. In many moods--at least, when I think about not the simple, the ordinary David Smith case with a single belief or two, but the full bodied--that's a bad term-- the full blown Napoleon case with all the memories, all the beliefs. You know, suppose David Smith there thinks, "I remember. I remember." I can't say it in a French accent. "I remember playing as a lad in France burying my little toy saber." Some memory that Napoleon never wrote down in his diaries. And we go and we dig up in France and there is the saber, right? This guy remembers things that Napoleon would remember. I find myself thinking, well, maybe that's Napoleon. Imagine a slightly different version of this case. Napoleon dies on his death bed, wakes up in heaven saying "Je suis Napoleon. I was emperor of Europe and now I have come to my due reward. I am here in heaven." Well, it seems like what we would want to say is, "Yeah, that's Napoleon." It's Napoleon even if it doesn't have Napoleon's body. Napoleon's corpse is rotted in France. God gives Napoleon some new angelic body. It seems straightforward. If it's got Napoleon's memories, beliefs, desires, goals, and so forth and so on, wouldn't we say it's Napoleon? Imagine that-- back to this earth-- this Napoleon type of case happened all the time. We might have a term for this sort of thing-- possession. Every now and then, people's bodies get possessed. They become this other person who's, now, personality has taken over. If this happened frequently enough, instead of just a little science fiction story like with the David Smith case, maybe we'd say, yeah, possession is one of these things that needs to be explained. How is it the personality travels? maybe there'll be some sort of physical explanation for it. Still, maybe we'd say, yeah, the people have been taken over. They've become somebody else. So speaking personally, I don't find the Napoleon objection a telling one. It doesn't give me a reason to reject the personality theory. But we can now tweak the worry in a slightly different way. Okay, so here was Napoleon back in France with his memories and his beliefs and so forth and so on. Death bed, goes to sleep, goes unconscious, whatever it is. I told you a story in which he wakes up, or his personality wakes up, however we should put it, in Michigan. But if it could happen in Michigan, I suppose it could also happen in New York. And if it could happen in New York and it could happen in Michigan, I suppose it could happen in New York and Michigan. So right now, let's imagine two people with Napoleon's personalities, complete personalities, one of them in Michigan, one of them in New York. Whoa. What should we say now? What is the personality theory going to say about this case? So I don't know how to draw personalities very well on the board, so I'll draw little stick figures of bodies, but I mean these to be the personalities. So here we've got the continuing, evolving over time-- this is all taking place in France-- the personality of Napoleon in France. There's the deathbed scene. Now, up here we had somebody with Napoleon's personality continuing. Of course, he's going to change. He's going to evolve. Just like the actual historical Napoleon kept having new beliefs and new desires, if this really was Napoleon in Michigan, he'll start having some new desires and beliefs about Michigan, which perhaps Napoleon never gave any thought to at all. Who knows? So this is Michigan over here. And I said I was willing to entertain the possibility that this is all Napoleon. Napoleon, if you think of it, Napoleon's a person extended through space and time. According to the personality view, what makes somebody in the future the same person as somebody in the past is if it's part of the same ongoing personality. So maybe that's what we've got going on in the Michigan case. Now, we imagine in our new version of the worry somebody with Napoleon's personality over here in New York. Now, if the Michigan guy hadn't been there, what I would have done, if I believed in the personality theory or when I believe in the personality theory, is say "Oh look, Napoleon-- reincarnated in New York." That's what the personality theory should say and I said it doesn't seem like a crazy thing to say if we only had the guy in New York. Just like it wasn't a crazy thing to say if we only had the guy in Michigan. The trouble is, imagine the case where we've got one guy who's got all of Napoleon's personality in Michigan, one guy who's got all of Napoleon's personality in New York. Now what should we say? What are the choices here? Well, I suppose one possibility would be to say the guy in New York is Napoleon. The guy in Michigan isn't. He's just an insane guy who's got Napoleon's personality. You could say that. The reason that it seems difficult to say though is because it seems like it would be just as plausible to say the reverse. Say no, no, no. It's not the New York fellow who's Napoleon. It's the Michigan fellow who's Napoleon. Well, we could say that, but the difficulty is there seems to be no good reason to favor the Michigan fellow over the New York fellow. Just like there was no good reason to favor the New York fellow over the Michigan fellow. Saying that one of them is Napoleon and the other one isn't seems very hard to believe. Well then, what's the alternative? Well, I suppose another possibility is to say, at least another possibility worth mentioning, is to say they're both Napoleon. Somehow, bizarrely enough, Napoleon split into two. But when splitting into two, he split on to two bodies, but they are both Napoleon. Now, it's very important to understand how bizarre this proposal would be. The claim is not now we've got two Napoleons who are, of course, not identical to each other. No, no, we've got a single Napoleon. A Napoleon who was in one place in France and is now simultaneously in two places in the U.S. That seems very hard to believe. It seems to just violate one of our fundamental notions about how people work, metaphysically speaking. People can't be in two places at the same time. Well, maybe that metahphysical claim I just made should be abandoned. Maybe we should say, oh, under normal circumstances, people can't be in two places at the same time. But if you had something like this, by golly, this guy would be, Michigan dude is Napoleon and he's the very same person, the very same person as New York dude. New York dude and Michigan dude are a single person, Napoleon, who is bilocated. It doesn't happen. But if it did happen, it could happen. Well, maybe that's what we should say. But again, all I can tell you is, I find that too big a price to pay. People can't be in two places. It's one thing to say people are space-time worms extended through space and extended through time. It's another thing to say that they are Y-shaped space-time worms. It seems to violate one of the fundamental metaphysical things about how people work. All right, I've got to remind you though, none of the options here are all that attractive. So when I say, you don't want to say that, you don't want to say that, we're going to run out of possibilities. So maybe this is what you'll want to say. All right, saying that Napoleon is in Michigan but not New York doesn't seem very attractive. Saying he's in New York but not Michigan doesn't seem very attractive. Saying he's in both places at the very same time doesn't seem very attractive. But what other possibilities are there? If he's not one but not the other, and if he's not both, the only other possibility is that he's neither. Given this situation, neither of these guys is Napoleon. You've got separate people. There's the person Napoleon, a space-time worm that came to an end in France. And there's some space-time worm taking place in Michigan, some space-time person worm taking place in New York. But neither of them are Napoleon. That seems to me to be the least unattractive of the options we've got available. But notice that if we say this, if we say neither of these guys, despite having Napoleon's personality, neither of these guys is Napoleon, then the personality theory of personal identity is false. It's rejected. We're giving up on it. Because the personality theory, after all, said if you've got Napoleon's personality, you're Napoleon. But now we've got people that are not Napoleon but they've got Napoleon's personality. So the personality theory, follow the personality, is wrong if we say neither of these guys is Napoleon. But that does seem to be the least unacceptable of the options. At least that's how it seems to me. So the personality theory's got to be rejected. Now, I think that's right. I think, in fact, the personality theory's got to be rejected. But that doesn't mean we couldn't revise it. We could try to change it in a way that keeps much of the spirit of the personality theory, but avoids some of the problems we've just been looking at. Here's what I think is the best revision available to fans of the personality theory. They should say we were simplifying unduly. We were simplifying it, getting it wrong, when we said, "Follow the personality. If you've got Napoleon's personality, that's enough to make you Napoleon." That's not true. We need to throw in an extra clause to deal with branching, splitting cases, of the sort that I've just been talking about. We need to say, if there's somebody in the future who's got my personality, that person is me, as long as there's only one person around in the future who's got my personality. If you have multiple examples, duplications, splittings and branchings, nobody, none of them is me. So where the original personality theory said, same personality, that's good enough for being the same person, the new version throws in a no-competitors clause, throws in a no branching clause. It says, same personality's good enough, as long as there's no branching. If there is branching, neither of the branches is me. Now, if we say that, if we throw in the no branching clause, then we're able to say, look, in the original story I was telling, where there was the Michigan guy who had Napoleon's personality but no New York guy, that really would be Napoleon, because it would have the same personality with no competitor. Similarly, had we had somebody with Napoleon's personality in New York and nobody with the personality in Michigan, that guy would have been Napoleon, because we would have had the same personality with no branching, with no competitor. But in the case where we've got branching, where we've got somebody with Napoleon's personality both in Michigan and New York, that violates the no branching rule, and we just have to say nobody's Napoleon in that case. As I say, that seems to me to be the best revision of the personality theory available to them. So what we now need to ask is, can we possibly believe that revision? Can we possibly accept the no branching rule? The no branching rule seems rather bizarre in its own right. Think about the ordinary familiar cases that we're trying to make sense of. I'm the same person as the person that was lecturing to you last time. According to the personality theory or the revised personality theory, that's because I've got the same personality. The guy last time thought he was Shelly Kagan, believed he was professor of philosophy. I think I'm Shelly Kagan. I believe I'm the professor of philosophy. He's got all sorts of memories of his childhood. I've got the same memories. He's got desires about finishing his book. I've got those desires about finishing my book. Same personality, it's me. That's what the personality theory says. So I conclude, hey, it's me. I know you were all worried whether I'd survive over the break a couple days. Came back, it's still me. I made it through Wednesday. Or did I? Or perhaps I should ask, "Or did he?" Yeah, there was somebody there on Tuesday and yeah, there's somebody here on Thursday, and yeah, this person here now has got the same personality as the guy who was there on Tuesday. But according to the no branching rule, we can't yet conclude that I'm the same person as the person that was lecturing to you on Tuesday. We can't conclude that until we know that there aren't any competitors, that there isn't anybody else right now who also has the same personality. If I'm the only one around today who's got Shelly Kagan's personality, then I'm the same person as the person who was lecturing to you on Tuesday. But if, unbeknownst to me, and I presume unbeknownst to you, there's somebody in Michigan right now who's got Shelly Kagan's personality, then we have to say, huh, it turns out I'm not Shelly Kagan after all. Neither is he. Neither of us are Shelly Kagan. Shelly Kagan died. So am I Shelly Kagan or am I not Shelly Kagan? Can't tell until we know what's going on in Michigan. Whoa! That seems very, very hard to believe. Whether I am the same person as the person who was lecturing to you on Tuesday presumably should turn on facts about that guy who was lecturing to you on Tuesday, and facts about this guy who's lecturing to you today on Thursday, and maybe some facts about the relationship between that guy and this guy-- or that stage and this stage, if we prefer to talk about it that way. We can see how whether it's the same person or not has to turn on the relations between the stages. But how could it possibly turn on what's happening in Michigan? How can whether or not I am the same guy as the guy who was lecturing to you on Tuesday depend on what's happening in Pennsylvania or Australia or Mars? To use some philosophical jargon, the nature of identity seems like it should depend only on intrinsic facts about me or perhaps relational facts about the relations between my stages. But it shouldn't depend on extrinsic, external facts about what's happening someplace else. But if we accept the no branching rule, we're saying whether or not we've got identity depends on what's happening elsewhere. With the no branching rule, identity ceases to be a strictly internal affair. It becomes, in part, an external affair. That's very, very hard to believe. And if you're not prepared to believe it, it looks as though you've got to give up on the personality view. Last thought. During all of these problems for the personality theorist, the body theorist, the fans of the body theorist, is standing there laughing. "Ha! You poor fools. Look at all the problems you've got adopting the personality theory. See how easy it is to duplicate personalities, leading to these totally implausible no branching rules. We can avoid all of that if we become body theorists." What we'll ask ourselves next time is whether or not the body theorist is in a better situation. 



 Chapter 12: 人格同一性（四）：本质因素何在?


Let me start by reviewing the problem that we were considering last week. We were raising a difficulty for the personality theory of personal identity according to which the key to being the same person is having the very same ongoing, evolving personality. And the difficulty was basically the problem of duplication. That it seemed as though we could have more than one-- call it an individual--more than one body, that had the very same set of memories, beliefs and so forth. And that we have to ask ourselves, "Well, what should the personality theory say about a case like that?" So imagine that over the weekend, the mad scientist copied my memories, beliefs, desires, fears, ambitions, goals, intentions and imprinted that on somebody else's brain. They did it last night at midnight. This morning, we woke up. And we have to ask ourselves, "Who's Shelly Kagan? Who's the person that was lecturing to you last week?" Well, it doesn't seem plausible in terms of the personality theory to say that he's Shelly Kagan, and the one here today. Suppose the other one's in Michigan. If the one in Michigan's Shelly Kagan but this one's not. After all, although it's true that he's got Shelly Kagan's memories, he woke up thinking he was Shelly Kagan, just like I woke up thinking I was Shelly Kagan. He woke up thinking about what he was going to lecture on in class today, just like I woke up thinking about what I was going to lecture in class today. He remembered last week's lecture just like I remembered last week's lecture. Well, no clear reason to say for the personality theory to say that he's Shelly Kagan and I'm not. After all, I've got the very same set of memories, beliefs, desires that he has. But equally true, and more surprisingly, from the personality theory point of view, there's no reason to say that I'm Shelly Kagan and he's not. After all, he's got all the same memories, beliefs and desires that I do. It doesn't seem plausible to say we're both Shelly Kagan, because now we'd have to then say Shelly Kagan's in two places at the same time. So the only alternative seems to be to say that neither of us is Shelly Kagan. But if neither of us is Shelly Kagan, then the simple original personality theory was false. Because according to that theory, having the personality is what it took to be Shelly Kagan. We both have it, yet neither of us is Shelly Kagan. The personality theory must be false. So we revise the personality theory to say, the secret to personal identity is having the same personality provided that there's no branching. Provided there's no splitting. Provided there's only one best competitor, not two equally good candidates. Given the no branching view, the no branching rule, we can say, in the ordinary case, look, there really wasn't anybody imprinted with my memories and desires in Michigan. I'm the only one around in the earth right now with Shelly Kagan's memories and desires. Since there's no competitor, and I've got the personality, I'm Shelly Kagan. I'm the very same person that was here lecturing to you last week. That's what the personality theory it gives us the answer we're looking for in the ordinary case. But in the science fiction story where there's a duplicate, it says, uh, if there's branching, the no branching rule comes in. Neither of them is Shelly Kagan. All right, so that's the best way for the personality theory to get revised to deal with this problem. The trouble was, it seems the no branching rule seems very counter-intuitive. So think about it. Here, right now I'm standing in front of you saying I'm Shelly Kagan, the guy who was lecturing to you last week. I believe I'm Shelly Kagan, the guy who was lecturing to you last week. Am I Shelly Kagan? Well, I've got Shelly Kagan's personality. So far so good. Now all we have to decide is, was the branching rule satisfied or violated? So all we have to know is, is there somebody else somewhere in the universe who's got all my memories and beliefs and desires? Well, how in the world could I know that? Whether I, this person talking to you right now, is Shelly Kagan depends on whether there's some duplicate with all my memories in Michigan or not? It seems very counter-intuitive. So although the personality with no branching rule avoids the problem of what to say about duplicates, by saying when there's branching, neither of them is Shelly Kagan, the branching rule itself seems very counter-intuitive. We feel as though whether somebody is me or not should depend upon internal facts about me in the earlier stages or this stage and that stage, not about what's happening elsewhere, outside, extrinsic to these things. So, if you're not willing to accept the no branching rule, if it strikes you as a bizarre thing to throw in to personal identity, maybe you need to reject the personality theory. Now during all of this, the fans of the body view typically are laughing. They say this just goes to show what a dumb theory the personality theory is. The whole problem with the personality theory is that personality is a bit like a software. It's like programs. It's the various programs you run on your computer along with the various data files that you have saved on your hard drive, and so forth. And those can be duplicated. You have copy after copy after copy. You can have two copies of my personality. You could have 100 or 1,000. The problem with--what drove the personality theory into the no branching rule, implausible as it may be, was the fact that your personality is like software, and it can be copied. That's why, they say, we should believe in the body view. If we accept the body view, we avoid the duplication problem. Because, unlike software, which can be literally copied, as many as you want identical, the body can't split. Human bodies can't divide or branch. There's no way that there's another body, that the body on Thursday became two bodies. The body that was here on Thursday didn't, couldn't become two bodies. So we avoid all the problem. That's at least the kind of claim that fans of the body view often make in the face of this difficulty for the personality theory. Well, now we need to ask, is it really true? Is it really true that bodies don't face a duplication problem? Is it really true that human bodies don't and couldn't split? Look, the crucial word here is, of course, "Couldn't." Personalities don't actually split either, right? Although I've been giving science fiction examples in which the mad scientist duplicates my memories and beliefs and desires, they've all been science fiction examples. If I can use science fiction to talk about the possibility of splitting, and use that against the personality theory, I'm entitled to use science fiction examples to talk about the possibility of bodies splitting, and ask, what kind of problem that would raise for the body theory? Now, we are familiar with some low-level examples of bodies splitting. Amoebas split, right? You've got a single amoeba. It's going along. At a certain point. Let's draw our amoeba splitting, right? You've got an amoeba split, going along. At a certain point, it starts to look like that. Then it looks like that. And then boom! You've got, well, it splits. There's nothing in biology per se that rules out cell division. Indeed, on the contrary, right? We know cells can split. Now, human bodies, unlike amoebas, don't do that. But maybe there's nothing in biology that rules out the possibility. Suppose we open up the Yale Daily tomorrow and we see that the Yale Center for Amoebic Studies has made this tremendous breakthrough and has discovered how to, through the right kind of injection or whatever, cause a human body to replicate and split in an amoeba-like fashion. Well, then we have to face the problem of what to say in this case of bodily branching. Well, instead of pursuing that example, let me give you a slightly different example that's been discussed a fair bit in the philosophical literature. This is actually a case that one of the students in the class asked about, I think it was last week, if it wasn't even earlier. And I said, "Great question. Let's come back to it." So here, at long last, I'm making good on my promissory note. I'm going to come back to the example that was raised before. You'll recall that when we talked about the body view, I said the best version of the body view doesn't require the entire body, to be the same body, but the brain. Follow the brain. And indeed, it doesn't seem as though we have to require the entire brain, just enough of the brain, however much that turns out, to house personality, memories and so forth. And then, I said, suppose it was possible that one hemisphere of your brain is enough. If there's enough redundancy in the brain so that even if your right hemisphere got destroyed, your left hemisphere, you still have all the same memories, desires, beliefs. Good enough. So now we worry about the following case. So I gave you a bunch of examples, right, where there are brains being transplanted into torsos of others. So suppose, gruesome as it was, this weekend I'm in some horrible accident and my torso gets destroyed and they keep my brain on life support, oxygenating it just long enough to do some radical surgery into some spare torsos. Where'd the torsos come from? Well, you had some living people, but they had very rare brain diseases and their brain suddenly liquefied. So now we've got some spare torsos. All right, so here we've got Shelly Kagan. His body gets destroyed. And here's my brain. Over here we've got Jones' torso. And over here we've got Smith's torso. Suppose we take, call this one the left hemisphere, and we stick it in here, into Jones' torso. We take this other hemisphere, the right half of my brain and we stick it into Smith's torso. We connect all the wires, all the neurons. The operation's a smashing success. Both things wake up. So here's Jones' torso with the left half of SK's brain. Smith's torso with the right half of SK's brain. They wake up. We need some way to refer to these people, so we can start talking about who they are. Let me just call this top one Jones' torso with the left half of Shelly Kagan's brain let's call him Lefty. Smith's torso with the right half of Shelly Kagan's brain, let's call him Righty. Okay, operation's a success. Lefty and Righty both wake up. They both think they're Shelly Kagan, and so forth and so on. And we ask ourselves, according to the body view, which one is Shelly Kagan? What are the possibilities? We could say Lefty is Shelly Kagan and Righty is not. Righty's an imposter. But there's nothing in the body view to give us a reason to make that choice. It's true that Lefty's got half of Shelly Kagan's brain and that's good enough. But it's also true that Righty's got half of Shelly Kagan's brain and that seems good enough. So there's no reason to say that Lefty is Shelly Kagan and Righty isn't. And similarly, of course, there's nothing in the body view to make us say that Righty is Shelly Kagan and Lefty isn't. Well, if it's not one, and not the other, what are the remaining possibilities? We could, I suppose, try to say they're both Shelly Kagan. And so Shelly Kagan continues, that is to say his body continues, that is to say his brain continues, that is to say enough of his brain continues, merrily on its way, except now in two places. And so from now on, Shelly Kagan, that single person, is in two different places at the same time. Lefty goes to California. Righty moves to Vermont. From now on, Shelly Kagan's bicoastal. It doesn't seem right. So what else can the body theory say? Well, the body theory could say neither of them are Shelly Kagan. Shelly Kagan died in that gruesome, horrible accident. Although it's true that we now have two people, Lefty and Righty, each of whom has half of Shelly Kagan's brain, and all of Shelly Kagan's memories, for whatever that's worth, neither of them is Shelly Kagan. We could say that as well. But if we--and that seems the least unpalatable of the alternatives. But if we say that, then we've given up on the body view. Because the body view, after all, said to be Shelly Kagan is to have enough of Shelly Kagan's brain. And in this case, both of Lefty and Righty seem to have enough of Shelly Kagan's brain. What's the body theorist to do? As far as I can see, the best option for the body theorist at this point is to add--no surprises here a no branching rule. The body theorist should say, "The key to personal identity is having the same body, to wit, the same brain, to wit, enough of the brain to keep the personality going provided that there's no branching, no splitting, no perfect competitors, only one." If the body view adds the no branching principle, then we can say, look, in the case of this sort of splitting this example is known in theto philosophical literature as fission, like nuclear fission when a big atom splits into two. So, in the fission case, the body says, the body theorist says, in the fission case, there's splitting, there's branching. So neither of them is going to end up being Shelly Kagan. But in the ordinary humdrum case, here I am, my body. Why am I Shelly Kagan? Because the brain in front of you--you can't see it, but it's in front of you--the brain in front of you is the very same brain as the brain that you had in front of you on Thursday. Follow the body, in particular follow the brain. So in the ordinary case, no splitting, follow the brain. In the special case where there's splitting, even if you follow the brain, not good enough. So the body theorist can avoid the problem of fission, avoid the problem of duplication by adding the no branching rule. But of course, the no branching rule didn't seem very intuitive. Whether or not I'm Shelly Kagan, the guy that was lecturing to you on Thursday, depends on whether, unbeknownst to me, over the weekend, somebody removed half of my brain, stuck it in some other torso, sealed me all back up. How could that matter? Well, if you don't find the no branching rule plausible, you're in trouble as a body theorist. In fact, so what we see is, the body theory is in exactly the same problem, exactly the same situation, as the personality theory. Indeed, the fission example is a very nice case of how you could have splitting for the personality theory. Here, before the accident, was Shelly Kagan, somebody who had my beliefs, desires, memories, goals, and so forth. After the accident, we've got two people, Lefty and Righty, or two entities, Lefty and Righty, both of whom have Shelly Kagan's memories, beliefs, desires, goals, and so forth. Splitting the brain shows how you could, in fact, have splitting of personality. So the very same case raises the very same problem for both the body view and the personality view. And the only solution that I can see, at least the best solution that I can see, is to accept the no branching rule. If you don't like the no branching rule, it's not clear what your alternatives are. Or at least, it is clear what your alternatives are; it's not clear which alternative would be any better. Now during all of this problems for the personality theory, problems for the body view--during all of this, the soul theorist is having a field day. The soul theorist is saying, "Look you guys, you got into all this trouble with splitting and so forth and so on, and needing to add the no branching rule, silly and implausible as that seems, you got into all that trouble because of the problem of splitting because personalities can be split, bodies can be split. If only you had seen the light and stuck to the soul theory of personal identity, all these problems could be avoided." Now, as you know, I don't believe in souls. But forget that issue for the moment. Let's just ask the question, "Is it true that the soul theory if only there were soul is it true that the soul theory would at least have the following advantage? It avoids these problems of duplication and fission." Well let's ask. What should a soul theorist say about the fission case? So here's the gruesome accident. My brain gets split apart. One part gets put into Jones' torso. One part gets put into Smith's torso. After the operation, Lefty wakes up thinking he's Shelly Kagan. Smith wakes up thinking he's Shelly Kagan. Lefty's got part of Shelly Kagan's brain. Smith's, or rather Righty's got part of Shelly Kagan's brain. What should the soul theorist say about the case of fission? Well, again, remember, the soul theory says the key to being the same person is having the soul. Why am I the person that was lecturing to you on Thursday? Because it's the very same soul animating my body, or what have you. So, what does the soul theorist say about the fission case? I'm not quite sure, because we have to turn to a metaphysical question that we've touched upon before, namely, can souls split? After all, the problem that fission raises for the personality theory, in a nutshell, is that personalities can split, they can branch. The problem for the body view that fission raises, in a nutshell, is that bodies can split. They can branch. We need to ask about the metaphysics of the soul, can souls split? And I don't know the answer to that, of course. So let's consider both possibilities. Possibility number one. Souls, just like bodies, just like personalities, can split. Suppose that's what happened. So, there was a single soul here, Shelly Kagan's soul, but in the middle of this gruesome operation, gruesome accident and followed by this amazing operation, Shelly Kagan's soul split. So there's one of the SK souls over here and there's one of the SK souls in the other case as well. Each one of Lefty and Righty has one of the pieces of the split Shelly Kagan soul. All right, so now we ask ourselves, "According to the soul theory, which one is Shelly Kagan?" Well, you--by this point, you can run through all the possibilities yourself, right? We could say, well, it's Lefty and not Righty. But there's nothing in the soul theory that supports that claim. They each have an equally good however good it may be they've got an equally good piece of the original Shelly Kagan soul. So there's no reason to say that Lefty is Shelly Kagan and Righty isn't. There's no good reason to say Righty is Shelly Kagan and Lefty isn't. Well, would it be better to say they're both Shelly Kagan, as long as you've got a piece of Shelly Kagan's soul, of the original soul, then you just are Shelly Kagan? In which case, Lefty and Righty are both Shelly Kagan, and Shelly Kagan is now bicoastal, one in California, one in Vermont, one part of him? That doesn't seem very satisfying. What's the alternative? The alternative, it seems, for the soul theorist, is to say, neither of them is Shelly Kagan. Neither of them is Shelly Kagan, then Shelly Kagan died. But how can we say that if we accept the soul theory? They both have pieces of Shelly Kagan's soul. The soul split. Well, maybe what the soul theorist would have to do at this point is accept the--da-ta-da--the no branching rule. "Ah," Says the soul theorist, "Follow the soul--unless the soul splits, in which case neither of them is Shelly Kagan." Well, the trouble is, we didn't find the no branching rule very plausible. It seemed counterintuitive. But at this point, you begin to wonder, maybe we just need to learn to live with it. If the personality theory needs the no branching rule, and the body theory needs the no branching rule, and the soul theory needs the no branching rule, maybe we're just stuck with the no branching rule, whether or not we like it. And if we're stuck with it, then of course it's not an objection against any one of the theories that uses it. Well, this is all what we would say as soul theorists if we think souls can split. But we need to consider the possibility that souls can't split. Maybe the soul theorist has an alternative available to it that available to him that the other theories don't have. Suppose Shelly Kagan's soul cannot split. What does that mean? It means, when my brain gets split, my soul is going to end up in Lefty or in Righty, but not in both. If a soul can't split, you can't end up with pieces of the soul or the remnants of the soul in both. The soul is a unified simple thing. Now, I don't actually know whether it's true that simple things can't split. Metaphysically, I'm not sure whether that's a possibility or not. But let's just suppose look, Plato argued the soul was simple. He didn't actually convince me of that, but suppose we thought souls are simple, and we think simple things can't split. It would follow, then, that souls can't split. Suppose we accept all that metaphysics. Then the question is just, "Which one is Shelly Kagan?" Well, it depends which one ended up with Shelly Kagan's soul. We can't say, they both have a piece. One of them will have it, the other one won't. And you want to know which one's Shelly Kagan? The one that actually ends up with Shelly Kagan's soul. If Lefty ends up with Shelly Kagan's soul, then Lefty is Shelly Kagan and Righty is an imposter. He thinks he's Shelly Kagan, but he's not, because he doesn't have Shelly Kagan's soul. Lefty has it. If Righty's got Shelly Kagan's soul, then Righty is Shelly Kagan and Lefty is the imposter. Now, looking at the situation from the outside, we might be unable to tell which one is really Shelly Kagan. Because we won't be able to tell, looking at it from the outside, which one really has Shelly Kagan's soul. Although it will be true, whichever one really does have Shelly Kagan's soul is Shelly Kagan. But we don't know which one that is. Interestingly, and somewhat more surprisingly, looking at it from the inside, we won't be able to tell either. Lefty will say, "Give me a break. Of course I'm Shelly Kagan. Of course I've got Shelly Kagan's soul. Of course I'm the one." But Righty will also say, "Give me a break. Of course I'm Shelly Kagan. Of course I've got Shelly Kagan's soul. Of course I'm the one." If souls can't split, one of them is mistaken. But there's no way for them to know which one is the one that's deceived. Now, that may not be a problem that you're unwilling to swallow. As we've seen, all the views here have their difficulties. Maybe that's the difficulty you're prepared to accept. What's the right answer in fission? It depends on who's got Shelly Kagan's soul. No way to tell. But still, that's the answer to the metaphysical question. Question? The question was, "What if neither of these have Shelly Kagan's soul?" Then they're both imposters. That's a little bit like the case we worried about when we started thinking about the soul view, right? "What if last night God destroyed my soul and put in a new soul?" Then Shelly Kagan died. If Shelly Kagan's soul does not migrate to Lefty or Righty, neither of them is Shelly Kagan, according to the soul theory. What happened to Shelly Kagan? Well, if the soul got destroyed, Shelly Kagan died. If the soul didn't get destroyed, maybe somebody else that we weren't even looking at is Shelly Kagan. So as I say, the soul theory can at least give us an answer that avoids the no branching rule. If souls are simples and simples can't split, there's no possibility of having two things with a relevant soul. So we don't need to add, in this ad hoc fashion, the no branching rule. That's an advantage for the soul theory, if only we believed in souls. It is an advantage. But I need to point out that there's another disadvantage that the fission case raises for the soul theory. So let's just suppose that metaphysically God tells us that it's Lefty that has Shelly Kagan's soul. Then of course it's Lefty that is Shelly Kagan. Righty is an imposter. Righty believes he's Shelly Kagan, he has all the memories of Shelly Kagan, all the desires of Shelly Kagan, but he's not Shelly Kagan because he doesn't have Shelly Kagan's soul. Lefty happens to have it. That's a nice answer to the problem of fission, but notice the problem it raises for the argument for believing in a soul in the first place. Way back at the start of the semester when we asked, "Why believe in souls?" One important argument was, or really family of arguments was, you need to believe in souls in order to explain why bodies are animated, why people are rational, how they can have personalities, how they can be creative, and so forth. In order to explain consciousness and self-awareness. Whatever it was, fill in your favorite blank, fill in the blank in your favorite way. The claim was, you needed to believe in souls in order to explain all that. But if that's right, what's going on in Righty's case? Righty is aware. Righty is conscious. Righty is creative. Righty has free will. Righty makes plans. Righty's got personality. Righty is rational. Righty's body is animated. According to the soul-theory argument for soul, rather, according to the argument for souls, you needed to believe in souls in order to explain how you could have a person. But now Righty's a person without a soul, because we just hypothesized, oh, Shelly Kagan's soul's up there. So at the very same moment that positing the nonsplitting of souls seems to solve the fission problem of duplication, it yanks the rug out from underneath the soul theorist by undermining one of the types of arguments for believing in the soul in the first place. After all, if Righty can be a person, admittedly not Shelly Kagan, but a person--conscious, creative, rational, so forth, aware-- without a soul, then maybe the same thing is true for us, which is of course what the physicalist says. Let me mention one other possibility, because it's quite intriguing. Suppose the soul theorist answers that last objection by saying, "Ain't ever going to happen." Yeah, it would be a problem for believing in souls if Righty could wake up without one. But since we stipulated that Shelly Kagan's soul is going to end up in Lefty, Righty is not going to wake up. Alternatively, it might have been that Righty woke up, but Lefty doesn't wake up, doesn't survive the operation. Suppose we did these sort of brain transfers all the time and the following thing always happened. Transfer the entire brain, the patient wakes up. Transfer one hemisphere, the patient wakes up. Transfer both hemispheres, one patient or the other wakes up, but never both. If that happened, we'd have a great new argument for the existence of a soul. What could possibly explain why either hemisphere of the brain would normally be enough, as long as we don't transfer both? When we transfer both, one hemisphere might work sometimes, sometimes the other hemisphere, but never both. What could possibly explain that? Souls could explain that. If souls can't split, it can only follow one half of the brain, and that's why we'll get somebody that's got one half, sometimes the other half, but never both halves. So there's a kind of empirical argument for the existence of the soul if we found those kinds of results. Of course, that's a big "If." Please don't go away thinking that what I just said is, here's a new argument for the soul. We don't do brain transfers, let alone have a half-a-brain transfers. We don't have any experiments that suggest one half wakes up, but not the other half. All I'm saying is that if someday we found that, at that point, we'd have an argument for the soul. Well again, let me put away the soul theory again. I was exploring it because it's interesting to think about its implication. But since I don't believe in souls, I want to choose between the body view and the personality view. Both of them, as we saw in the face of fission, needs to accept a no branching rule. If they're going to survive thinking about this case at all, we need to throw in a no branching rule. Whether or not you find the no branching rule hard to believe, if both views are stuck with it, well, then we're stuck with it. So let's try to choose between the personality theory with the no branching rule and the body theory with the no branching rule. Which of these should we accept? Which of these is the better theory of personal identity? Answer, "I'm not sure." Over the course of my philosophical career, I have moved back and forth between them. There was certainly a long period of time in which I found the personality theory, that is, the personality theory with a no branching rule, to be the better and more plausible theory. And it certainly has any number of advocates on the contemporary philosophical scene. But at other times in my philosophical career, I have found the body theory, that is to say, the body theory with the no branching rule, to be the more plausible theory. And it is certainly the case that the body theory has its advocates among contemporary philosophers. For what it's worth--and I don't actually think that what I'm about to say is worth all that much. I'm going to share with you my own pet belief. These days I'm inclined to go with the body theory. I'm inclined to think that the key to personal identity is having the same body, as long as there's no branching, as long as there's no splitting. But it's certainly open to you to decide that you think "No, no, the personality theory is the stronger view." I can't settle the question. I don't have any more philosophical arguments up my sleeve on this issue. But I do have another point that's worth considering. Although I'm inclined to think that the body theory may be the best view about what's the key to personal identity, I'm also inclined to think it doesn't really matter. We've been posing the following question. We've been asking, "What does it take for it to be true that I survive?" And it may be that what we should conclude is, whatever the best answer to that question is, it's not the question we should really have been thinking about. We weren't going to be in a position to see that until we went through all the stuff we've been going over for the last couple of weeks. But now that we're here, we're in a position perhaps to raise the question, should we be asking what it takes to survive? Or should we be asking about what matters in survival? Now, in posing this question, I'm obviously presupposing that we can draw a distinction between the question, "Do I survive? Is somebody that exists in the future, whatever, me?" and the question, "What was it that I wanted, when I wanted to survive? What was it that mattered in ordinary survival?" And it might be that these things can actually come apart. To see this, suppose we start by thinking again about the soul view. Suppose there are souls. I don't believe in them, but let's imagine. Suppose there are souls. And suppose that souls are the key to personal identity. So somebody is me if they've got my soul. Or, to put it more straightforwardly, next week the person that's me is the person with my soul. I survive as long as there's somebody around with my soul. A hundred years from now, am I still around? Well, if my soul's still around, that's me. That's what the soul theory says. And suppose it's the truth. Now, consider the following possibility. Suppose that people can be reincarnated. That is to say, at the death of their body, their soul takes over, animates, inhabits, gets connected to a new body that's being born. But, unlike the kind of reincarnation cases that get talked about in popular culture and various religions where, at least under the right circumstances, you can remember your prior lives, let's imagine that when the soul is reincarnated, it's scrubbed completely clean, no traces whatsoever of the earlier life. No way to retrieve it. No karmic similarities of personality or anything, just starts over like a blank slate. Like a blackboard that's been completely erased, we now have the very same blackboard, and now we start writing new things on it. Imagine that that's the way reincarnation worked. So somebody asks you, "Will you still be around in 1,000 years?" The answer's going to be, "Yes, because my soul will be reincarnated. In 1,000 years there'll be somebody that has the very same soul that's animating my body right now." Of course, that soul won't remember being Shelly Kagan. It won't have any memories of its prior life. It won't be like Shelly Kagan in any way in terms of Shelly Kagan's desires or ambitions or goals or fears. It won't be that we can see why that personality emerges through karmic cause and effect in any way that are a function of what I was like in my life. It'll be Shelly Kagan, because it's Shelly Kagan's soul, but with no overlap of personality, memories, anything. Then I want to say, "Who cares?" The fact that I will survive under those circumstances doesn't give me anything that matters to me. It's no comfort to me to be told I will survive, because after all, the soul is the key to personal identity, if there's no similar personality, no memories, no beliefs, no retrievable memories of past lives. Then who cares that it's me? If you can feel the force of that thought, then you're seeing how the question "Will I survive?" can be separated out from the question "What matters?" What do we care about? Bare survival of my soul, even though that is the key to personal identity--if it is-- bare survival of my soul doesn't give me what I want. It's no more comforting or satisfying than if you said, "You know this knucklebone? After you die, we're going to do knucklebone surgery and implant that knucklebone in somebody else's body. And that knucklebone is going to survive." And I say, "Oh, that's very interesting that that knucklebone will be around 100 or 1,000 years from now. But who cares?" And if the knucklebone theory of personal identity gets proposed and somebody said, "Oh, yes, but you see, that person now with that knucklebone will be you, because the key to personal identity is having the very same knucklebone." I say, "All right, so it's me. Who cares?" Bare knucklebone survival does not give me what matters. Now, the knucklebone theory of personal identity is a very stupid theory. In contrast, the soul theory of personal survival is not a stupid theory. But for all that, it doesn't give me what I want. When you think about the possibility of bare survival of the scrubbed, clean, erased soul, you see that survival wasn't really everything you wanted. What you wanted--at least what I want, I invite you to ask yourself whether you want the same thing what I want is not just survival, but survival with the same personality. So even if the soul theory is the correct theory of personality, it's not enough to give me what matters. What matters isn't just survival. It's survival with the same personality. Let's consider the body view. Suppose that the body theory of personal identity is correct. And to be me, there's got to be somebody there that's got my body. Let's suppose the brain version of the theory is the best version. And so next year, there's going to be somebody that's got my brain. But let's imagine that the brain has been scrubbed clean. All memory traces have been completely erased. We're talking complete irreversible amnesia, complete erasure of the brain's hard drive. No traces of desires and memories and intentions and beliefs to eventually be recovered if only we have the right surgery, or procedure, or psychotherapy, or what have you. It's gone. Now, that thing that wakes up after this complete irreversible amnesia will no doubt eventually develop a personality, a set of beliefs, memories. Nobody knows who it is, so they call it... You know, they find it wandering on the streets. They call it John Doe. John Doe will eventually have a bunch of beliefs about how the world works, make some plans, get some memories. According to the body theory, that's me. And if the body theory is correct, well by golly, it is me. And all I can say in response to that is, it's me. But who cares? So what? I'm not comforted by the thought that I will still be around 50 years from now, if the thing that's me doesn't have my personality. Mere bodily survival isn't enough to give me what I want. I want more than mere bodily survival. I want to survive with the same personality. So even if the body theory of personal identity is the right theory, what I want to say in response to that is, "So what?" If the really crucial question is not "Do I survive," but "Do I have what I wanted when I wanted to survive?" the answer is the body theory doesn't give it. I don't just want to survive. I want to survive with the same personality. Should we conclude, therefore, that the key to the important question namely, "What matters?" the answer to that question, should we conclude, is, same personality? That's a question we'll have to take up next time. 



 Chapter 13: 本质因素何在（续）、死亡的本质（一）


At the end of last class, I began to raise the question as to whether or not we should distinguish two questions that we would normally be inclined to run together. We've been asking ourselves, what does it take for me to survive, for me to continue to exist? But it's possible, i suggested, that we really shouldn't focus on the question, what does it take for me to survive? But rather, "what is it that I care about? What is it that matters in survival?" Because it's possible, logically speaking, that there could be cases in which I survive, but I don't have what I normally have when I survive, and so I don't have what matters. I don't have what I wanted, when I wanted to survive. It could be that in the typical cases of survival I've got that extra thing. But we can think of cases in which I would survive, but I don't have that extra thing, and so I wouldn't have everything that matters to me. So as it were, we might say, it might be that mere survival or bare bones survival doesn't really give me what matters. What I want is survival plus something else. And I tried to motivate this question by having you think about perhaps the possibility, if the soul view was the truth about personal identity, but imagine a case of complete irreversible amnesia, while nonetheless, it's still your soul continuing. But the soul is going to then, having been scrubbed clean, get a brand new personality. A new set of memories, new set of desires, new set of beliefs. No chance of recalling your previous, current, personality. And when I think about that case, I find myself wanting to say, "All right, I'll survive, but so what? I don't care. It doesn't matter that it's me, in that case. Because I don't just want it to be me, I want to have there be somebody that's me with my personality." Similarly, suppose we thought that the body view was the correct view and we imagine, again, some sort of case of complete amnesia. And so then we get a new personality and you say, "Oh look, that's going to be you, your body, your brain. You're still around." And I say, "It could be true, but so what? It doesn't give me what I want, when I want to survive. What I want isn't just for it to be me. I want it to be me with my personality." So should we conclude, therefore, that what really matters is not just survival but having the same personality? Would that-- Suppose the personality view of personality identity was correct. Would that then give us not just personal survival, but what matters? I think that's close, but no cigar. Not quite good enough. To see that, recall the fact that according to the personality view, as a theory of personality identity, the crucial point isn't that my personality stay identical. It's not that I have to keep all exactly the very same beliefs, desires, and memories. Because of course, if we said that, then I'd die as soon as I got a new belief. I'd die as soon as I forgot anything at all of what I was doing 20 minutes ago. No, according to the personality theory, what personal identity requires isn't item-for-item the same personality, but rather the same evolving personality. I gain new beliefs, new desires, new goals. I may lose some of my previous beliefs, lose some of my previous memories, but that's okay as long as it's a slowly-evolving personality with enough overlap. Okay, so now let's consider the following case. I start off. Here I am. I've got a set of beliefs, a set of--I believe I'm Shelly Kagan, a set of memories about growing up in Chicago. I have a certain set of desires about wanting to finish my book in philosophy and so forth. And I get older and older and older. And I get some new memories and some new desires and some new goals. Suppose that I get very, very, very old. I get 100 years old, 200 years old, 300 years old. Somewhere around 200, suppose that my friends give me a nickname. They call me Jo-Jo. Who knows why, they call me Jo-Jo. And after a while, somewhere the name spreads and by the time I'm 250 years old, everybody's calling me Jo-Jo. Nobody calls me Shelly anymore. And by the time I'm 300, 350, 400, I've forgotten anybody used to call me Jo-Jo. [correction: Shelly] And I no longer remember growing up in Chicago. I remember things about my youth when I was a lad of 100. But I can't go back to what it was like in the early days, just like you can't go back to what it was like to be four or three. And suppose that all this is going on as I'm getting older and older. My personality is changing in a variety of other ways. I lose my interest in philosophy and take up an interest in, I don't know, something that completely doesn't--organic chemistry holds no interest to me whatsoever. I become fascinated by the details of organic chemistry. And my values change. Now I'm a kind--now, over here-- I'm a kind, compassionate, warm individual who cares about the downtrodden. But around 300, I say, "The downtrodden. Who needs them?" And by the time I'm 500, I become completely self-absorbed and I'm sort of a vicious, cruel, vile person. Here I am, 800 years old, 900 years old. Methuselah, in the Bible, lives for 969 years. He's the oldest person. So okay, here I am, 969 years old. I'm like Methuselah. Call this the Methuselah case. And the crucial point about the case is that we stipulate that at no point was there a dramatic change. It was all gradual, slow, evolving. in just the way it happens in real life. It's just that as Methuselah, I live a very, very, very long time. And by the end of it, and indeed, let's say somewhere around 600 or 700, I'm a completely different person, as we might put it. I don't mean literally. I mean in terms of my personality. Now, remember, according to the personality theory of personal identity, what makes it me is the fact that it's the same evolving personality. And I stipulated that it is the same evolving personality. So that's still me that's going to be around 600 years from now, 700 years from now. But when I think about that case, I say, "So what? Who cares?" When I think about that case, I say, "True, we'll just stipulate that will be me in 700 years." But it doesn't give me what I want. That person is so completely unlike me. He doesn't remember being Shelly Kagan. He doesn't remember growing up in Chicago. He doesn't remember my family. He has completely different interests and tastes and values." I say "It's me, but so what? It doesn't give me what I want. It doesn't give me what matters." When I think about what I want, it's not just that there be somebody at the tail end of an evolving personality. I want that person to be like me, not just be me. I want that person to be like me. And in the Methuselah case, i've stipulated, it ends up not being very much like me at all. So it doesn't give me what I want. When I think about what I want-- and I'm just going to invite you to, each one of you, to ask yourself what is it that you want, what matters to you in survival?-- when I think about what matters to me, it's not just survival. It's not just survival as part of the same ongoing personality. It's survival with a similar personality. Not identical, item for item, but close enough to be fairly similar to me. Give me that, and I've got what matters. Don't give me that, and I don't have what mattes. In fact, I'm inclined to go a little bit further. Once you give me that, give me that there's somebody there with my similar personality, I think that may be all that matters. Up to this moment, I've been saying, okay, survival by itself isn't good enough. You need survival plus something else. And I'm now suggesting that in my own case at least, the something else is, something extra, is same, similar personality. It might be that I get what matters to me even if I have, as long as I have, similar personality, even if I don't have survival. Suppose--I don't believe in souls, but suppose there really are souls. And suppose the soul is the key to personal identity. And suppose the thing that Locke was worried about really does happen. Every day at midnight God destroys the old soul and replaces it with a new soul that has the very same personality as the one before midnight, similar personality, same beliefs, desires, and so forth and so on. If I were to discover that's what was happening metaphysically and the soul view was the true theory of personal identity, I'd say, "Huh! Turns out I'm not going to survive tonight. I'm going to die." Who cares? There'll be somebody around tomorrow with my beliefs, my desires, my goals, my ambitions, my fears, my values. Good enough. I don't really care whether I'm going to survive. What I care about is whether there'll be somebody that's similar to me in the right way in terms of my personality. So it might be that the whole question we've been focusing on, "What does it take to survive?" may have turned out to be misguided. The real question may not be "What does it take to survive?" but "What matters?" And it might turn out that although, normally, having what matters goes hand in hand with surviving, logically speaking, they can come apart. And what matters, or so it seems to me, at least, isn't survival per se, but rather having the same personality. Since I'm inclined to think that the body view is the correct theory of personal identity, I want to say, look, somebody around tomorrow, if overnight God replaces my body with some identical looking body and keeps the personality the same, that won't be me, but all right. It's good enough. What matters to me isn't survival per se. Indeed, isn't survival, strictly, at all. It's having the same personality. Still, what does that leave us? That leaves us with the possibility that there could be cases where you die and you don't survive, maybe God swoops me up upon death. My body dies, but he sort of swoops up my information about my personality and recreates somebody up in heaven with that similar personality. It won't be me, if it's a different soul. It won't be me, if it's a different body. But still, I want to say, "It will give me what matters!" That's a possibility. But I don't, in fact, think it's going to happen. I believe--I've told you I'm a physicalist-- I believe that what's going to happen is, at the death of my body, that's going to be the end. Now, what I've been arguing is that, logically speaking, even if you are a physicalist, that doesn't rule out the possibility of survival. Suppose you believe in the personality theory. Your body's going to die, but your personality could continue. Or it might be, even as a body theorist, I'll cease to exist but what matters will continue. These are possibilities. But for what it's worth, I don't in fact believe they're actually what's going to happen. Of course, these are also theological matters, and so I'm not trying to say anything here today to argue you out of the theological conviction that God will resurrect the body or God will transplant your personality into some new angel body, but if you believe in the personality theory, that will be you, or what have you. I'm not--it's not my goal here to argue for or against these theological possibilities, having at least taken the time to explain philosophically how we could make sense of them. But I do want to report that I don't believe them. I believe that when my body dies, that's it for me. There won't be anything that's me afterwards. There won't be anything that's-- even though what I want per se isn't survival. Not only won't I survive, I believe after my death what matters to me in that situation won't continue either. There won't be somebody with a similar personality to mine after the death of my body. All right, so having spent all this time getting clearer about the nature of personal identity, and getting clearer about what people are, and the possibilities of survival, and so forth, having argued against the existence of souls, and for a physicalist view-- physicalism seems compatible with both the body view and the personality view, leave it to you to decide between them, I myself currently favor the body view-- Let's ask, "So just what is death, anyway, on the physicalist view?" It might seem as though it's fairly straightforward. A person, after all, is just a body that's functioning in the right way so as to do these person tricks. It's P-functioning, as we've put it at one time or another. And so a person is just a P-functioning body, whether you emphasize the body side there or the personality side of that equation. What exactly is it to die? When do I die? Let's turn to that question. When do I die and what is death? Roughly speaking, the answer, presumably, on the physicalist view, is going to be something like-- if I'm alive when we've got a P-functioning body, roughly speaking, I die when that stops happening, when the body breaks and it stops functioning properly. That seems, more or less, the right answer from the physicalist point of view, although as we'll see probably later today, we need to refine it somewhat. But first, let's ask a slightly different question. Which functions are crucial in defining the moment of death? After all, we've got the idea that here's the body, here's a functioning body. Here's one in front of you. Each one of you has got one. You're a functioning body. There's a variety of functions that your body's engaged in. Some of them have to do with merely digesting food and moving the body around, and making the heart beat, and the lungs open and close. Call those things the bodily functions. And there's also, of course, in each one of our cases, there's these higher mental cognitive functions that I've been calling the person functioning, there's the B-functions and there's the P-functions. Well, roughly speaking, I die when the functioning stops, but which functions? Is it the body functions or the personality functions? So let's take a look at the normal situation. Here's the existence of your body. And during most of the existence of your body, it's functioning. The body functions. Over here, it's no longer functioning. It's a corpse. During some of the period when your body's functioning, it's doing the higher cognitive stuff. The personality functions. Now, this is the very early stuff when your body's still developing and your brain hasn't turned on yet, or your brain is turned on, but it hasn't actually become a person yet, right? At least in the case of the fetus, it's not self-conscious. It's not rational. It's not able to communicate. It's not creative and so forth. That comes later. All right, so there's Phase A. There's Phase B. There's Phase C. That's the normal situation, the normal case. The body exists. It functions for a while before the P-functioning begins. And then after a while the body and P-functioning are both going on. And then after a while they stop. In the normal case, I'm in a car accident or whatever it is, and my body stops functioning, my personality stops functioning, and you're left with a corpse. When did I die? Well, the natural suggestion is to say I died here. I'll draw my little star, an asterisk. In the normal case, I die when my body stops functioning, in terms of the body functions. And it stops functioning in terms of the personality functions. That's the normal case. But we could still ask the philosophical question. Since what we had here was simultaneously losing both the ordinary body functioning and the special personality functioning, which loss was the crucial one in terms of defining the moment of my death? Let's come back to that question in a minute. First, I want to ask a slightly different question. When did I cease to exist? Or, to put it slightly differently, do I exist during Phase C, when the body has stopped functioning? Both in terms of body functions and personality functions, I'm just a corpse. Do I exist? Now, let's suppose we believe the personality theory of personal identity. According to the personality theory of personal identity, for something to be me, it's got to have the very same personality, the same evolving, but still the same set of beliefs, desires, goals, so forth. Now, during period C, there's nothing with my personality, right? Nobody thinks they're Shelly Kagan. Nobody has my memories, beliefs, exact desires, goals and so forth. Pretty clearly then, on the personality theory, I don't exist at Phase C. That's why it's natural to point to the moment of star when we say that's when my death occurs. I don't exist at Phase C. But interestingly, things look rather different if we accept not the personality theory, but instead, the body theory. After all, according to the body theory of personal identity, for somebody to be me, they've got to have my body. Follow the body. Same body, same person. All right, here we are. Here's my corpse. What is a corpse? It's a body, and indeed, my corpse is my body. So follow the body means follow the person. The corpse is still around. It means my body's still around. It means I'm still around. It's like, I mean, I'm dead, but I still exist. It's like a bad joke, right? So here's the question we started the class off with. Will you survive your death? Will you still exist after death? Well, there's good news and there's bad news. Since I believe in the body theory, the good news is, you will exist after your death. The bad news is, you'll be a corpse. That seems like a bad joke, but if the body theory is right, it's not a joke at all. It's literally speaking the truth. I will exist, at least for a while. Eventually, the body will decay, turn into atoms or whatever it is, decompose. At that point my body no longer exists. At that point, I will no longer exist. But at least for a while, during period C, the body theorist should say, "Yeah, you will exist. You will exist, but you won't be alive." It just reinforces the point that I was trying to make a few moments ago that the crucial question is not survival per se. The crucial question is, what did you want out of survival? And one of the things I wanted out of survival was to be alive. All right, so on the body view, I exist here, but I'm not alive, so it doesn't give me what matters. On the personality view, I don't exist when I'm a corpse. Let's go back and ask the question, well, so which is it? Which is the one that's the crucial for defining the moment of death, right? Even on the body view, the fact that I exist isn't good enough, because I'm not alive. I want to know, when am I alive? When am I dead? So what's crucial for defining the moment of death? Is it body functioning or personality functioning? Well, you can't tell by thinking about the normal case, because the B-functioning and the P-functioning stop at the same time. But suppose we draw the abnormal case. All right, here's C with the corpse again. Here's a period when the body's been functioning and goes like this. Here's the period back here, A, where the body's been functioning, but the personality hasn't started yet. And now imagine, so this is personality. Over here we've got body. We'll call this B again. What I've done is imagine a case in which the personality functioning stops before the rest of the body functioning stops. Obviously, the phases are no longer in alphabetical order, but I introduced D in the middle so the other phases could keep their same labels. Well, here's a case where-- When does the body functioning stop? End of D. When does the personality functioning stop? End of B. So we've got two candidates. Star one and star two. Star one says "Death occurs when personality stops functioning." Star two says "No, no, death occurs when bodily functioning stops." Well, again, the question is, what should we say? I think we're going to perhaps be drawn to different answers, depending on whether we accept the body view or the personality view. Suppose we accept the body view. Well, look, if the relevant question is "When do I die?" and I am a body, then presumably the straightforward answer at least is going to be "I die when my body stops functioning." When is that? Star two. During period D, I'm still alive, but I'm no longer functioning as a person. I am no longer a person. That's interesting. It's not just that I exist. In C, I can exist without being alive, as a corpse. In D, I'm alive but I'm not a person. You recall when we talked about Plato, we introduced the notion of essential properties. And it seems that if we accept the body view, we have to say being a person is not an essential property of being something like me. It's not one of my essential properties that I'm a person. I am, in fact, a person, but that won't always be true of me. When I'm a corpse, I will cease to be a person, but I'll still exist. And if we have this unusual case in which my brain has a stroke, loses its higher cognitive functioning, so that the body continues to breathe, eat, respirate, and so forth, the heart continues to pump, but there's no longer anything capable of thinking, reasoning, we say, look, I still exist. Indeed, I'm alive, but I'm not a person. Being a person is something you can go through for a period of time and cease to be. In the same way that being a child is a phase you can go through for a period of time and then cease to be. Or being a professor is a phase you can go through and then cease to be. You can still exist without being a professor. I can still be alive without being a professor. Well, on the body view, we have to say the same thing about being a person. Being a person is something that I, namely my body, can do for a while. It wasn't doing it back here in A. It certainly won't be doing it in C. And it won't be doing it in D either. Being a person is something on the body view that I am only for part of my existence and indeed, only for part of my life. Well, that's what it seems we should say on the body view. What if instead we accept the personality theory? Then-- actually, one more remark about the body view. Notice that if you accept this account of what the body view should say about when death is, my death is when I cease to be alive. I am my body. So my death occurs at star two, loss of bodily function. And being a person is just a phase. Notice that if we say that, then there's something somewhat misleading about the standard philosophical label for the problems we've been thinking about for the last couple of weeks. We've been worrying about the nature of personal identity. That is to say, what is it for somebody to be me. But notice that that label, "Personal identity," "The problem of personal identity," seems to have built into it the assumption that whatever it is that's me is going to be a person. Is it the same person or not? Now, it turns out that that assumption, standardly built into the usual label, may be false. On the body view, it could still be me without being a person at all. So the problem of existence through time, or persistence through time, shouldn't be called the problem of personal identity, but just the problem of identity. You know, a footnote. Turning now again to the personality theory. If we accept the personality theory of personal identity, then for someone to be me, they've got to have the same personality. And so for something, for me to exist, my personality has to be around. Well, that's why we said up here that in Phase C when there's a corpse, I don't exist. There's nothing with my personality. As a corpse, I no longer exist. What should we say about Phase D, on the personality theory? Here, my body is functioning, but my personality has been destroyed. Nothing exists with my beliefs, memories, desires, fears, values, goals, ambitions. Well, if I just am my personality, then I don't exist in Phase D, because there's nothing there to be me, nothing with my personality. According to the personality theory, follow the personality. The personality ended at star one. So I don't exist at Phase D on the personality theory. Okay good. I don't exist. But what should we say? Am I alive or not? Well, my body's still alive, so should we say that I'm alive? After all, my body's still functioning until star two. During Phase D, my body seems to still be alive. Should we say that I'm alive? That's rather hard to believe, right? Think about what it would mean to say that. We'd being saying on the personality theory, I don't exist, but I'm alive. That seems like a very unpalatable combination of views. How can I be alive if I don't even exist? So it seems we have to say I'm not alive during Phase D. Not only don't I exist during Phase D, I'm not alive either. Yet, my body is alive; that's the whole stipulation. So it looks as though the personality theorist is going to have to introduce a distinction between "my being alive", on the one hand, and "my body being alive", on the other. In the normal case--up at the top, those two deaths occur simultaneously. My body stops being alive at the very same moment that I cease being alive. But in the abnormal case, the personality theorist needs to say, or so it seems to me, the two deaths come apart. The death of my body occurs at star two. My death occurs at star one. Notice that the body theorist didn't need to draw that distinction. Because if I just am my body, then well, I'm just my body. My death occurs at the death of my body. But still, even the body theorist needs a different distinction. We already learned, by thinking about the corpse case, that existence wasn't good enough for the body theorist. He wanted to be alive. And when I think about Phase D, I want to say something more. It's not good enough that I'm alive. I want to be a person. So what matters to me isn't just being alive, but being back here during Phase B. So then it needs something like the same distinction. Not, my death versus my body's death, but perhaps the death of the person, if we could talk that way, versus the death of the body. My death, for the body view, occurs with the death of my body. But in terms of what matters, it's the death of the person and that's star one, not star two. Now, I want to take just a couple of minutes and mention some other puzzles, or at least questions, worth thinking about in terms of the physicalist picture. I'm only going to point to them, rather than explore them. But I've been focused on the question about the end of life. We might ask as well, what about the beginning? What should we say about Phase A, when the body is turned on and functioning, developing, but the brain has not yet gotten to the stage at which it's turned on, or perhaps it hasn't yet become, well, it's not doing person functioning. It's not reasoning. It's not communicating. It's not thinking. It's not aware. It's not conscious. There's going to be some Phase A like that. What should we say about that phase? Do I exist during that phase or don't I? Well, on the body view, I suppose we should say I do exist. Being a person is a phase. We happen to have, in Phase A, the stage of my existence before I become a person. Of course, if we take the version of the body view that what I am, essentially-- the crucial body part--is my brain, then we really would have to subdivide A into two parts: early A and late A. In very, very early A, the brain hasn't even developed yet. It hasn't been constructed yet. If I just am my brain, in effect, then early A, I don't exist yet. Not until late A, when the brain gets put together, that I start to exist. There is something there. It's my body, but it's not me, in early A. It seems sort of hard to believe, but maybe that's the right thing to say. In any event, the fans of the personality theory shouldn't be laughing too hard, because they're going to have to say something similar. Remember, if you accept the personality theory, follow the personality. Don't got the same personality? I cease to exist. That's why we said on the personality theory, as we went ahead in time, once the P-functioning stops, I don't exist anymore. That's what the personality theorist said. But we can raise that same point going backwards. When did I begin to exist on the personality theory? Not until my continuing, evolving through time personality started. And that certainly wasn't true way back at the start of A, as the fertilized egg first begins to split and multiply, subdivide and make organs. It's a good long time till any kind of mental processing occurs at all. So on the personality theory, I did not exist when that fertilized egg came into being, when the egg and the sperm joined. That's still not me, on the personality theory. Clearly, these issues are relevant for thinking about the morality of abortion. I'm not going to pursue them here, but you can see how they'd be relevant. If we want to worry about when, if ever, is an abortion justified, it might be worth getting clear on, when do creatures like us start? Interesting question, but having noted it, let me put it aside. Ah, question. The question was: Would it be plausible to say that at the early phases of A, strictly speaking,  the body's not functioning, because it's so utterly dependent on help from the mother's body. It needs the mother for respiration, for nutrients, and so forth and so on." That's a great question. And it's the sort of question and the reason why I said I wanted to glance in this direction without really going there. That's a nice example of it. We might wonder, just when should we say the body functioning really does start? How much independence does it take? We could draw yet another picture of a different way a life could come to an end. Imagine a body towards the end of life, on life support machinery. Do we want to say the body's functioning or not functioning? Well, hard cases there. So similarly, there's going to be hard cases about the very, very early stages. And although they're great questions and I'm happy to discuss them with you further, I don't want to pursue them here and now. I want to point to a different question that-- I think it's a crucially important question. My unwillingness to discuss them isn't a matter of my judgment that they're unimportant, just trying to keep at least roughly on track. Come back to the end of life. Think some more about Phase D and ask. All right, so this is something that's-- If the personality function's been destroyed, can't be recovered, can't be fixed, but the rest of the bodily functioning is still going on. The heart's pumping, the lungs are breathing and so forth. The body's able to digest food. There we are in Phase D, in something like, perhaps, persistent vegetative state. Now, imagine that we've got somebody who needs a heart transplant or a kidney transplant, liver transplant. And tissue compatibility tests reveal this body's compatible, suitable donor. Can we take it or not? Well, you might have thought we answer that by asking "Am I still alive?" Well, rip out the heart, it's going to kill me, right? So if I'm still alive, you can't do that sort of thing. It's killing me. Well, if we take the personality theory, we have to say, my body's still alive, but I'm not still alive. That's what we seem to want to say. If I'm not still alive, all we'd be killing isn't me, but my body. So now we have to ask, who or what has the right to life? Do I have the right to life, or does my body have the right to life? Or we might say, look, certainly I have a right to life. But is it also true that in addition to me, my body has a right to life? Is there something immoral about removing the organs during Phase D when the person is dead and the only thing that's still alive is the body? Don't be too quick to assume the answer that's got to be yeah, it's still wrong. After all, on the body view, I still exist when I'm a corpse. But of course, there's nothing wrong about taking my heart, even though I still exist. After all, I'm a corpse. Why not then say, similarly, even though my body's still alive, nothing wrong about removing the heart if the person is dead. At least, the personality view opens the door to saying that. What about the body view? On the body view, of course, I just am my body. I'm still alive. Now is it wrong? Just like, with the body view, we wanted to say, "Being alive is not all it's cracked up to be," the real question is not, "Am I alive, on the body view?" An interesting question is, "Am I still a person?" And indeed, although I'm alive on the body view, I'm not still a person. Maybe it's not so much that I have a right not to be killed. Maybe I have a right not to be depersonified, to have my personality destroyed. If that's the real right, then again, there'd be nothing wrong with removing the heart in D. Well, again, clearly, very, very important and very, very complicated questions. But having gestured toward them, I want to put them aside. Instead, I want to raise the following question. So look, what I've just been talking about for the last half hour or so is the fact that we've got to get clear, in thinking about the nature of death, as to whether or not the crucial moment is the moment when the personality functioning stops or the moment when the bodily functioning stops. As we saw by thinking about the abnormal case, these things can come apart and we can have Phase D. But in the normal case, they happen at the same moment. And I've drawn a lot of different distinctions about what would you say if you're a personality theorist to deal with this? What would you say if you're a body theorist to deal with this? Having drawn all those distinctions, I'm going to just ride roughshod over them and put them aside. And let's just suppose that we're dealing with the normal case, where the body functioning stops at the same time as the personality functioning stops. So what is death? What's the moment of death? What is it to die, on the physicalist view? Well, at first glance, you might think the answer is, "Look, you exist, you're alive, whatever it is--" as I said, I'm just going to be loose now, I'm going to put aside all the careful distinctions I just drew-- I'm still around as long as my body is P-functioning. And when my body's not P-functioning, I'm not still around. Either I don't exist or I'm not alive or I'm not a person, whichever precise way we have to put it. That seems like the natural proposal for the physicalist to make. To be dead is to no longer be P-functioning. But that can't quite be right. Because imagine, don't just imagine, just remember what happened to you last night around 3:20 a.M. Let's just suppose that at 3:20 a.M. you were asleep and indeed, you weren't dreaming. You weren't thinking. You weren't reasoning. You weren't communicating. You weren't remembering. You weren't making plans. You weren't being creative. You were not engaged in P-functioning. If we take this simple straightforward view and say you're dead when you're not P-functioning anymore, then you were dead, on and off and on and off, last night. Well, that clearly doesn't seem to be the right thing to say. So we're going to have to revise the P-functioning or the end of P-functioning theory of death. We're going to have to revise that theory. We're going to have to refine it to deal with the obvious fact that you're not dead all the times when you're unconscious and not dreaming. But refining in just the right way is going to turn out to be a surprisingly not straightforward matter, at least that's how it seems to me. At any rate, that's the question we'll turn to next time. 



 Chapter 14: 死亡的本质（续）：请相信你将死去


Last time we ended with the following puzzle or question. If we say that to be a person is to be a P-functioning body, it seems then as though we have to conclude that when you're not P-functioning, you're dead. That is, you're dead as a person. Previously, we distinguished between the death of my body and my death as a person; let's focus on my death as a person. If I'm not P-functioning, do we have to then say I'm dead? Well, that may seem to be the most natural way to define death, but it's not an acceptable approach. Because it would follow then, that when I'm asleep, I'm dead. Well, not during those times, perhaps, when I'm dreaming while I'm asleep. But think of the various periods during the night in which you are in a deep, deep dreamless sleep. You're not thinking. You're not planning. You're not communicating. Let's just suppose, as seems likely, that none of the P-functioning is occurring, at some point during sleep. Should we say then that you're dead? Well, that's clearly not the right thing to say. So we need to revise our account of what it is on the physicalist picture to say that you're dead. What is it to be dead? It can't just be a matter of not P-functioning. Well, one possibility would be to say, the question is not whether you are P-functioning. It's okay if you're not P-functioning, as long as your not P-functioning is temporary. If you will P-function again, if you have been P-functioning in the past and you will be P-functioning again in the future, P-functioning for person functioning, you will be P-functioning again in the future, then you're not dead. Well, that's at least an improvement, because then we say, "look, while you're asleep, even though there's no P-functioning going on, the lack of P-functioning is temporary, so you're still alive." But I think that won't quite do either. Let's suppose that come Judgment Day, God will resurrect the dead. And let's just suppose the correct theory of personal identity is such as to put aside any worries we might have along with van Inwagen, that we discussed previously, as to whether or not on resurrection day that would really be you or not. Suppose it would be you. So God will resurrect the dead. Judgment Day comes. The dead are resurrected. Well, now they're P-functioning. So it turns out that during that period in which they were dead, they were only temporarily not P-functioning. But if death means permanent cessation of P-functioning, then it turns out the dead weren't really dead after all. They were only temporarily not P-functioning, just like we are temporarily not P-functioning when we're asleep. Well, that doesn't seem right either. On Judgment Day, God resurrects the dead. It's not that He simply wakes up those in a deep, deep sleep. So the proposal that death is a matter of permanent cessation of P-functioning versus temporary, that doesn't seem like it's going to do the trick. But what else do we have up our sleeves? Here's a different proposal that I think is probably closer to the right account. We might say, look, while you're asleep, it's true that you're not P-functioning. For example, you're not doing your multiplication tables. But although you are not engaged in P-functioning, it does seem true to say that you still can P-function. You still could do your multiplication tables. Although it's not true that you are speaking French-- let's suppose that you know how to speak French-- it's still true of you while you're asleep that you can or could speak French. How do we know this? Well, all we have to do is just wake you up. We wake you up and we say, "Hey John, what's three times three?" And after you stop swearing at us, you say, "Well, it's nine." Or we say, "Linda, hey, conjugate such and such a verb in French." And you can conjugate it. Even though you were not engaged in P-functioning while you were asleep, it's still true that while you were asleep, you had the ability to engage in P-functioning. Abilities aren't always actualized. Your P-functioning is actualized now, because you're engaged in thought, but you don't lose the ability to think during those moments when you're not thinking. Suppose we say then that to be alive as a person is to be able to engage in P-functioning. And to be dead then, is to be unable to engage in P-functioning. Why are you unable? Well, presumably because whatever cognitive structures it takes in your brain to underwrite the ability to P-function, those cognitive structures have been broken, so they no longer work. It's--When you're dead, your brain is broken. It's not just that you're not engaged in P-functioning, you're no longer able to engage in P-functioning. That, at least, seems to handle the case of sleep properly. Although you're not engaged in P-functioning, you're able to, so you're still alive. Take the dead who will be resurrected on Judgment Day. Although they will be engaged in P-functioning later on, it's not true right now that they can engage in P-functioning. Their bodies and brains are broken until God fixes them. So they're dead. All right, that seems to give the right answer and, in fact, it gives us some guidance how to think about some other puzzling cases. Take somebody who is in a coma, not engaged in P-functioning. Their body, let's stipulate, is still alive. Their heart's still beating, the lungs are still breathing and so forth. But we wonder, is the person still alive? Does the person still exist? they're not engaged in P-functioning. That's pretty clear. We want to know, can they engage in P-functioning? Now, at this point we'd want to know more about the underlying mechanics about what's gone on in the case of the coma. If the following is the right description, then we perhaps should say they're still alive. Look, when somebody's asleep, we need to do something to, in effect, wake them up, something to turn the functioning back on. The cognitive structures are still there, but the on-off switch is switched to off. Perhaps that's what it's like when somebody's in a coma, or perhaps at least certain types of comas. Of course, to turn the on-off switch on is harder when somebody's in a coma. It's a bit more-- to continue with the metaphor of the on-off switch-- as though not only is the switch turned to off, there's a lock on the switch. And so we can't turn the switch on in the normal way. Pushing the person in the coma and saying, "Wake up, Jimmy" doesn't do the trick. But for all that, although the on-off switch may be stuck in off, if the underlying cognitive structures of the brain are such as to still make it true that, flip the on switch back to on and the person can still engage in cognitive P-functioning, maybe the right thing to say is the person's still alive. Coma case two. I'm not sure whether this really should be called a coma. I don't know the biological and medical details. But imagine that what's gone on is there's been decay of the brain structures that underwrite the cognitive functioning. So now it's not just that the on-off switch is stuck in off, the brain's no longer capable of engaging in these higher order P-functions. This might be a persistent vegetative state with no possibility of turning it on, even in principle. Of such a person we might say, they're no longer capable of P-functioning. And then perhaps the right thing to say is the person no longer exists, so they no longer exist as a person, even if the body is still alive. So far, so good. Here's a harder case to think about. Suppose we put somebody in a state of suspended animation, cool their body down so that the various metabolic processes come to an end. They stop. As I'm sure you know, we're able, with various lower organisms, to put them in a state of suspended animation and then, the amazing thing is, if you heat them back up again properly, they start functioning again. Now, we can't do that yet with humans. But it doesn't jump out at us, at least, that that should be an impossibility. So suppose we eventually learn how to do this with humans. And now, suppose we take Larry and put him in a state of suspended animation. Is he dead? Well, most of us don't feel comfortable saying that he's dead. Just like we don't feel comfortable saying that the-- I suppose we could do this with a fruit fly. I don't know whether we can or can't. Suppose we can. Suppose we do it with a fruit fly. We don't feel comfortable saying the fruit fly's dead. Rather, it's in a state of suspended animation. Well, similarly then, perhaps we wouldn't want to say that Larry is dead. And the "Brokenness" account of death allows us to say Larry's not dead. The structures in the brain which would underwrite the ability to engage in P-functioning, they're not destroyed by suspended animation. So perhaps in the relevant sense, the person can still engage in P-functioning, so they're not dead. Good enough. On the other hand, it doesn't seem so plausible, it doesn't seem intuitively right to say that they're alive. Is Larry alive when he's in a state of suspended animation? No. It seems like he's not alive either. Now that's a bit puzzling, right? It's as though we need-- Normally, we think that look, either you're alive or you're dead. The two possibilities exhaust the possibilities. But thinking about suspended animation suggests that we may actually need a third category, suspended--neither alive nor dead. Well, all right, if we do introduce a third possibility-- I'm not sure this is the right thing. It's not clear what's the right or best thing to say about suspended animation. But at least that doesn't seem like an unattractive possibility. If there are three possibilities-- dead, alive, or suspended--to be dead, we could still say you've got to be broken, incapable of P-functioning. Suspended isn't broken. It's just suspended. But then what do you need to be alive? In addition to not being broken, what do you need to be alive? Well, the initially tempting thing to say is not only aren't you broken, but you're actually engaged in P-functioning. But if we say that, then we're back to saying that somebody who's asleep isn't really alive. That doesn't seem right either. So we need some account to distinguish between suspended animation and out--and out being alive. And I'm not quite sure how to draw that line. So I'll leave that to you as a puzzle to work on on your own. That puzzle aside, it seems to me that once we become physicalists, there's nothing especially deep or mysterious about death. The body is able to function in a variety of ways. When some of those lower biological functions are occurring, the body's alive. When all goes well, the body is also capable of engaging in higher order personal P-functioning. And then you've got a person. The body begins to break, you get the loss of P-functioning. At that point, you no longer exist as a person. When the body breaks some more, you get the loss of biological or B-functioning, and then the body dies. There's nothing especially mysterious about death, although there may be a lot of details to work out from a scientific point of view. What are the particular processes that underwrite biological functioning? What are the particular processes that underwrite personality or person functioning? Still, there are a couple of claims about death that get made frequently enough, about death being mysterious in one way or another, that I want--or special or unique-- that I want to focus on. In effect, from the physicalist point of view, although death is unique because it comes at the end of this lifetime of various sorts of functions, there's nothing especially puzzling, nothing especially mysterious, nothing especially unusual or hard to grasp about it. But there are a handful of claims that people make about death suggesting that they think, and they think we all think, that death is mysterious or unique or hard to comprehend. I want to examine a couple of these. One of them I'll get to later; if not later today, then next lecture. Sometimes people say that we die alone or everybody dies alone. And this is something-- This is supposed to express some deep insight into the nature and uniqueness of death. So although we're able to eat meals together, we're able to go on vacations together and take classes together, death is something we all have to do by ourselves. That's the claim. We all die alone. That's a claim I'll come back to. What I want to look at first is the suggestion that somehow, at some level, nobody really believes they're going to die at all. Now, having distinguished between what we've called the death of the body and the death of the person, the question whether or not you're going to die needs to be distinguished. The question whether or not you believe you're going to die needs to be distinguished. If somebody says, "You know, nobody really believes they're going to die," they could mean one of two things. They could mean nobody really believes they're going to cease to exist as a person, first possibility. Second possible claim, nobody really believes they're going to undergo the death of their bodies. Let's take these in turn. Is there any good reason to believe that we don't believe that we're going to cease to exist as a person? Well, the most common argument for this claim I think takes the following form. People sometimes say, since it's impossible to picture being dead, it's impossible to picture being dead--, That is to say, it's impossible to picture your own being dead. Each one of us has to think about this from the first person perspective or something like that. Think about your dying, your being dead-- Since that's impossible to picture, that's impossible to imagine, nobody believes in the possibility that they're going to die, that they're going to cease to exist. The idea seems to be that you can't believe in possibilities that you can't picture or imagine. Now, that hypothesis, that thesis, that assumption, could be challenged. I think probably we shouldn't believe the theory of belief which says that in order to believe in something, you've got to be able to picture it or imagine it. But let's grant that assumption for the sake of argument. Let's suppose that in order to believe in something, you've got to be able to picture it. What then? How do we get from there to the conclusion that I can't believe that I'm going to die, I'm going to cease to exist as a person? Well, the thought, of course, is I can't picture or imagine my death. I can't picture or imagine my being dead. It's important here to draw some distinctions. I can certainly picture being ill. There I am on my deathbed dying of cancer, growing weaker and weaker. I can perhaps even picture the moment of my death. I've said goodbye to my family and friends. I've the--Everything's growing greyer and dimmer. It's growing harder and harder to concentrate. And then, well, and then there is no "And more." The claim, however, is not that I can't picture being ill or dying. The claim's got to be, I can't picture being dead. Well, try it. Try to picture being dead. What's it like to be dead? Sometimes people claim it's a mystery. We don't know what it's like to be dead, because every time we try to imagine it, we fail. We don't do a very good job. I'm inclined to think that that way of thinking about the question is really confused. You set yourself the goal of trying to put yourself in the situation imaginatively of what it's like to be dead So I start by trying to strip off the parts of my conscious life that I know I won't have when I'm dead. I won't hear anything. I won't see anything. I won't think anything. And you try to imagine what it's like to not think or feel or hear or see. And you don't do a very good job of it. So you throw your hands up and you say, "Oh, I guess I don't know what it's like. So it must be a mystery." It's not a mystery at all. Suppose I ask, "What's it like to be this cell phone?" The answer is, "It's not like anything," where that doesn't mean there's something that it's like to be a cell phone, but different from being anything else. So it's not like anything else; it's a special way of feeling or experiencing. No. Cell phones don't have any experience at all. There is nothing that it's like on the inside to be a cell phone. Imagine that I try to ask myself, "What's it like to be my ball point pen?" And I try to imagine, well, first, imagine being really, really stiff, because you're not flexible when you're a ball point pen. You can't move. And imagine being really, really bored, because you don't have any thoughts or interests. No. That's completely the wrong way to go about thinking what it's like to be a ball point pen. There's nothing that it's like to be a ball point pen. There's nothing to describe, nothing to imagine. No mystery about what it's like to be a ball point pen. No mystery about what it's like to be cell phone. Well, similarly then, I put it to you, there's no mystery about what it's like to be dead. It isn't like anything. What I don't mean, "Oh, it's like something, but different from everything else." I mean, there is nothing there to describe. When you're dead, there's nothing happening on the inside to be imagined. Well, should we conclude therefore, given that we've got the premise, "If you can't picture it or imagine it, then you can't believe in it", since I've just said, look, you can't imagine being dead, but that's not due to any failure of imagination, that's because there's nothing there to imagine or picture. Still, granted the premise, "if you can't picture it or imagine it, you can't believe in it" Should we conclude,therefore, that you can't believe you're going to be dead? No. We shouldn't conclude that. After all, not only is it true that you can't picture from the inside what it's like to be dead, you can't picture from the inside what it's like to be in dreamless sleep. There is nothing that it's like to be in dreamless sleep. When you're in dreamless sleep, you're not imagining or experiencing anything. Similarly, it's not possible to picture or imagine what it's like to have fainted and be completely unconscious with nothing happening cognitively. There's nothing to picture or imagine. Well, should we conclude, therefore, so nobody really believes that they're ever in dreamless sleep? Well, that would be silly. Of course you believe that at times you're in dreamless sleep. Should we say of somebody who's fainted or know that they're subject to fainting spells, they never actually believe that they pass out? That would be silly. Of course, they believe they pass out. From the mere fact that they can't picture it from the inside, it doesn't follow that nobody believes they're ever in dreamless sleep. From the mere fact that they can't picture from the inside what it's like to have fainted and not yet woken up, it doesn't mean that nobody believes that they ever faint. From the mere fact that you can't picture from the inside what it's like to be dead, it doesn't follow that nobody believes they're going to die. But didn't I start off by saying I was going to grant the person who is making this argument that in order to believe something, you've got to be able to picture it? And haven't I just said, "Look, you can't picture being dead"? So aren't I taking it back? Since I say you can believe you're going to die, yet you can't picture it from the inside. Haven't I taken back the assumption that in order to believe it, you've got to be able to picture it? Not quite. Although I am skeptical about that claim, I am going to continue giving it to the person who makes this argument, because I'm not so prepared to admit that you can't picture being dead. You can picture being dead, all right. You just can't picture it from the inside. You can picture it from the outside. I can picture being in dreamless sleep quite easily. I'm doing it right now. I've got a little mental image of my body lying in bed asleep, dreamlessly. I can picture fainting, or having fainted, quite easily. Picture my body lying on the ground unconscious. I can picture my being dead quite easily. It's a little mental picture of my body in a coffin. No functioning occurring in my body. So even if it were true that "Belief requires picturing", and even if were true that you can't picture being dead from the inside, it wouldn't follow that you can't believe you're going to die. All you have to do is picture it from the outside. We're done. So I conclude,of course you can and do believe you're going to die. But at this point, the person making the argument has a possible response. And it's a quite common response. He says, "Look, I try to picture the world- admittedly from the outside-- I try to picture the world in which I don't exist, I'm no longer conscious. I'm no longer a person, no longer experiencing anything. I try to picture that world. I picture, for example, seeing my funeral. And yet, when I try to do that, I'm observing it. I'm watching the funeral. I'm seeing the funeral. Consequently, I'm thinking. So I haven't really imagined the world in which I no longer exist, a world in which I'm dead, a world in which I'm incapable of thought and observation. I've smuggled myself back in as the observer of the funeral." Every time I try to picture myself being dead, I smuggle myself back in, conscious and existing as a person, hence, not dead as a person. Maybe my body-- I'm imagining my body dead, but I'm not imagining myself, the person, dead. From which it follows, the argument goes, that I don't really believe I'll ever be dead. Because when I try to imagine a world in which I'm dead, I smuggle myself back in. This argument shows up in various places. Let me mention, let me quote one case of it, Freud. Freud says, this is, I'm quoting from one of the Walter Kaufman essays that you'll be reading, called "Death." He quotes Freud. Freud says, After all, one's own death is beyond imagining, and whenever we try to imagine it we can see that we really survive as spectators. Thus, the dictum could be dared in the psychoanalytic school: at bottom, nobody believes in his own death. Or, and this is the same: in his unconscious, every one of us is convinced of his immortality. All right, there's Freud. Basically, just running the argument I've just sketched for you. When you try to imagine your being dead, you smuggle yourself back in as a spectator. And so, Freud concludes, at some level none of us really believes we're going to die. I want to say, I think that argument's a horrible argument. How many of you believe that there are meetings that take place without you? Suppose you're a member of some club and there's a meeting this afternoon and you won't be there, because you've got to be someplace else. So you ask yourself, "Do I believe that meeting's going to take place without me?" At first glance, it looks like you do, but here's the Freudian argument that shows you don't really. Try to imagine, try to picture that meeting without you. Well, when you do picture it, there's that room in your mind's eye. You've got a little picture of people sitting around the table perhaps, discussing the business of your club. I've smuggled myself in as a spectator. If, like you--, I think most of us picture these things up from a perspective in a corner of the room, up on the wall, looking down, kind of a fly's perspective. All right, I've smuggled myself in as a spectator. I'm actually in the room after all. So I haven't really pictured the meeting taking place without me. So I guess I don't really believe the meeting's going to take place without me. If Freud's argument for death, that is to say, none of us believe we're going to die, was any good, the argument that none of us believe meetings ever take place without us would have to work as well. But that's silly. It's clear that we all do believe in the possibility, indeed, more than a mere possibility, the actuality of meetings that occur without us. Even though when I imagine that meeting, I'm in some sense, smuggling myself in as an observer. From which I think it follows that the mere fact that I've smuggled myself in as an observer doesn't mean that I don't really believe in the possibility that I'm observing in my mind's eye. I can believe in the existence of a meeting that takes place, even though I smuggle myself in as an observer when I picture that meeting. I can believe in the possibility of a world without me, even though I smuggle myself in as an observer when I picture that world without me. Freud's mistake, and it's--although I'm picking on Freud, it's not only Freud that runs this sort of argument. One comes across it periodically. Within the last year, a member of our law school here put forward this very argument and said he thought it was a good one. So people think the argument's a good one. It strikes me as it's got to be a bad one. The confusion, the mistake I think people are making when they make this argument, the mistake I think they're making is this. It's one thing to ask yourself, what's the content of the picture? It's another thing to ask, when you look at the picture, are you existing? Are you looking at the picture from a certain point of view? Suppose I hold up a photograph of a beach with nobody on it. All right, am I in that beach, as pictured in that photograph? Of course not. But as I look at it, whether in reality or in my mind's eye, I'm looking at it from a perspective. As I think about it, I'm viewing the beach from a point of view which may well be on the beach, if somebody draws a painting of a beach. But for all that, that doesn't mean that within the picture of the beach, I'm in the beach. Looking at a picture doesn't mean you're in the picture. Viewing the meeting from a point of view, doesn't mean you're in the meeting. Viewing the world without you from a point of view, doesn't mean you're in the world. So although of course it's true, when I imagine these various possibilities without me, I'm thinking about them. I'm observing them. And I'm observing them from a particular perspective, from a particular standpoint. For all that, I'm not in the picture that I'm thinking about. So I think the Freudian argument just fails. Now, maybe there's some other reason to believe the claim that nobody believes they will cease to exist. But if there is another argument for that claim, I'm eager to hear it, because this argument, at any rate, seems to me to be unsuccessful. Now, at the start, I distinguished two claims people might have in mind when they say, "Nobody believes they're going to die." The first possibility was the claim was, nobody believes that they'll ever cease to exist as a person. And I've just explained why at least the most familiar argument for that claim, I think, doesn't work. The second possible interpretation was this. Nobody believes their body is going to die. That is, the more familiar humdrum event of death where your body ceases functioning and you end up having a corpse that gets buried and so forth. Sometimes it's suggested that nobody believes that either. Of course, often, I think, people run together these two questions. When they say you don't believe you're going to die, do you mean, you don't believe your body's going to die? or you don't believe you're going to cease to exist as a person? Maybe when people make the claim, it's not clear which of these things they've got in mind. But let's, at least, try to now focus on the second question. Could it be true, is there any good reason to believe it is true, that nobody believes they're going to undergo bodily death? Now, after all, even if you believe that, well, your soul will go to heaven so you won't cease to exist as a person, you might still believe that your body will die. Most of us presumably do believe our bodies will die. At least, that's how it seems to me. So it's a bit odd to suggest, as it nonetheless does get suggested, that no, no, at some level, people don't really believe they're going to die. Let me point out just how odd a claim that is. Because people do all sorts of behaviors which become very, very hard to interpret if they don't really believe their bodies are going to die. People, for example, take out life insurance so that-- well, here's what seems to be the explanation. They believe that there's a decent chance that they will die within a certain period of time. And so, if that happens, they want their children and family members to be cared for. If you didn't really believe you were going to die, that is undergo bodily death, why would you take out life insurance? People write wills. "Here's what you should do with my estate after I die." If you didn't really believe that your body was going to die, why would you ever bother writing a will? Since many people write wills, many people take out life insurance, it seems as though the natural thing to suggest is that many, or at least perhaps most, at least many people believe they're going to die. Why would we think otherwise? Well, the reason for thinking otherwise, the reason for not being utterly dismissive of this suggestion, is that when people get ill, terminally ill, it often seems to take them by surprise. So I've been having you read Tolstoy's novella, The Death of Ivan Ilyich. Ivan Ilyich falls, he hurts himself. The injury doesn't get better. He gets worse and worse and eventually it kills him. The astonishing thing is that Ivan Ilyich is shocked to discover that he's mortal. And of course, what Tolstoy is trying to convince us of, what he's trying to argue, by illustrating the claim, I take it, that Tolstoy is making, is that most of us are actually in Ivan Ilyich's boat. We give lip service to the claim that we're going to die, but at some level, we don't really believe it. And notice again, just to emphasize the point, the relevant lack of belief here has to do with the death of the body. That's the thing that Ivan Ilyich is skeptical about. Is his body going to die? Is he mortal in that sense? This is what takes him aback, to discover that he's mortal. For all we know, Ivan Ilyich still believes in souls, believes he's going to go to heaven and so forth. So it's not his death as a person that he's puzzled by. He may not think he's going to die as a person. It's his bodily death that surprises him, his bodily mortality that surprises him. Tolstoy draws a highly realistic and believable portrait of somebody who is surprised to discover that he's mortal. As he puts it, there's a famous syllogism that people learn in their logic classes from Aristotle. All men are mortal. Socrates is a man, so Socrates is mortal. Ivan Ilyich says, "Yes, yes, I knew that. But what did that have to do with me?" Well, it may be a kind of irrationality. It may be a kind of failure to conduct the logic. But we're not asking, is it rational or irrational to not believe that your body's going to die, we're simply asking, noting the fact that, there do seem to be cases where people are surprised to discover that they're mortal. Now, for all that, notice, I presume that Ivan Ilyich had a will. And for all I know, Ivan Ilyich had life insurance. So we're in the peculiar situation where on the one hand, some of Ivan Ilyich's behaviors indicate that he believed he was mortal, that his body was going to die. And yet, the shock and surprise that faces, that overcomes him when he actually has to face his mortality, strongly suggests that he's reporting correctly. He didn't believe he was going to die. How could that be? There's a kind of puzzle there as to-- even if, before we move to the question, how widespread are cases like this? There's a puzzle as to how are we even to understand this case? We need to distinguish perhaps between what he consciously believes and what he unconsciously believes. Maybe at the conscious level he believed he was mortal, but at the unconscious level he believed he was immortal. Or maybe we need to distinguish between those things he gives a kind of lip service to, versus those things he truly and fundamentally believes. Maybe he gives lip service to the claim that he was mortal. If you would have asked him "Are you mortal?" he would have said "Oh, of course I am." And he buys life insurance accordingly. But does he thoroughly and truly and fundamentally believe he's mortal? Perhaps not. We need some such distinction if we're going to make sense of Ivan Ilyich. Well, let's suppose we've done it. Still have to ask, not, are there are ever cases of people who don't believe they're going to die? but rather, is there any good reason to think that we're all or most of us are in that situation, are in that state of belief where, although we give lip service to the claim that we're going to die, is there any good reason to believe that fundamentally we don't actually believe it? That's the question we have to turn to next time. 



 Chapter 15: 独自死亡、死亡之害（一）


Tolstoy's Ivan Ilyich is surprised to discover that he's going to die. It's the sort of thing he's given lip service to, no doubt, over the course of his life. But when he finally gets ill and comes up to the fact of his mortality, that his body is going to sicken and eventually die, the fact of his mortality seems to shock him, seems to surprise him. We might say, on one level he believes that he was mortal. He's believed it all along. But at another level, at some deeper level, it comes as a surprise to him. He never really believed it. Now, I take it that we find Ivan Ilyich a perfectly believable example. That is, we think it's conceivable that somebody could, at some level, not really believe they're going to die. But I also take it that Tolstoy means to be putting forward more than just a claim that there could be such a person. "Look how bizarre he is. Let me describe him for you." But rather, the suggestion is meant to be that Ivan Ilyich's case is rather typical. Maybe all of us are in his situation, or at least most of us are in his situation. Or, at the very least, many of us are in his situation. That's a stronger claim, though I think it's not the sort of claim that's unique to Tolstoy, that all of us or most of us or many of us at the fundamental level don't really believe that we're going to die. You might ask, what kind of evidence could be offered for that? Offering a realistic scenario, a realistic description of such a person --Ivan Ilyich-- doesn't give us any reason to think that most of us or many of us are in his situation. So, is there any reason to think that? You might ask, what kind of argument could be offered for a claim like that? What we'd be looking for, I take it, would be some kind of behavior on our part that calls out for explanation. And the best explanation is to be had--this is how the argument would go. The best explanation is to be had by supposing that those people who behave this way. Let's suppose many of us who behave this way. The best explanation of that behavior is to be found by claiming that at some level, at some fundamental level, we don't really believe what we claim to believe. We don't really believe what we give lip service to. Take somebody who perhaps suffers from some sort of compulsion to wash his hands. We ask him, "Are your hands dirty?" He might say, "No, of course not." And yet, there he is, going back to bathroom, washing his hands again. You might say, the only way to explain the behavior is to say that at some level, he really does believe his hands are dirty, despite the fact that he says they're not. Well, in the same way, if we could find some behavior on our part that calls out for explanation, that the best possible explanation would be that at some level we don't believe we're going to die, then we might say, look, this gives us some reason to think that we don't really believe we're going to die, even though we say we believe it. Suppose, for example, that if you really did believe, fundamentally, unconsciously, all the way down however we should put it--if you really did believe you were going to die, the horror of that would lead you to start screaming and just keep screaming. Of course, this example reminds us again of Ivan Ilyich, who screams and screams and screams almost till his death. Well, suppose this was true. Suppose that if you -suppose we believed--we had good reason to believe-- if you really took seriously the thought that you were going to die, you couldn't stop screaming. But of course, nobody here is screaming, from which we can conclude none of us really do believe, fundamentally, deep down, that we're going to die. That would be a good argument if we had good reason to believe the conditional, the if-then claim. If only you really truly believed you were going to die, you would scream and scream and scream. That's the crucial premise. And of course, we don't have any good--as far as I can see--we don't have any good reason to believe that crucial premise. You might ask though, is there some other behavior, something else that should tip us off, could tip us off, as to whether or not we really do or don't believe that we're going to die? Well, here's the best that I can do. This strikes me as the most plausible contender for an argument like this. As we know, there are people who have brushes with death. They might be, for example, in an accident, and come close to being killed, but walk away without a scratch. Or suffer a heart attack and be on the operating table for some number of hours and then, thanks to cardiac surgery or what have you, be resuscitated. When people have these near brushes with death, it's easy to believe that the fact of their mortality is more vivid. It's more before their mind's eye. It's something that they now really truly do believe. And the interesting point is many people who have this sort of experience, for whom their mortality has become vivid, they often say, "I've got to change my life. I need to spend less time at the office and more time with my family, telling the people that I love that I love them, doing the things that are important to me, spend less time worrying about getting ahead, making money, getting the plasma TV," whatever it is. Let's suppose that this is true of all of us, or at least most of us. When we find the fact of our mortality is made vivid, when we really truly can see that we're mortal, then we change our priorities, stop giving all the time and attention to trying to get ahead in the rat race and spend more time with our loved ones doing what's important to us. Suppose that claim were true. Well, armed with that claim, we might notice, well look, of course, most of us do spend a lot of time trying to get ahead, trying to earn a lot of money, don't spend the bulk of our time doing the things that we really truly think are most important to us, don't tell our friends, don't tell our family members how much they mean to us, how much we love them. What are we to make of that fact? Well, maybe the explanation is, although we give lip service to the claim that we're mortal, at some more fundamental level, we don't truly believe it. The belief's not vivid for us. We don't believe it all the way down. Well, this is an argument--at least it seems to me-- that has some chance of being right. I'm not at all convinced that it is right. But at least it doesn't seem to be the sort of argument, unlike some of the arguments I've considered last time about oh, nobody believes they're going to die because you can't picture being dead or what have you. This argument, I think, has some possibility of being right. It does seem as though people who have brushes with death change their behavior in significant ways. The fact that we don't behave in those other ways gives us some reason to believe that perhaps at some level we don't completely or fully or fundamentally believe we're going to die. As I say, I'm not sure whether that argument's right. But at least it's an argument worth taking seriously. Let me turn now to a different claim that sometimes gets made about death. This is the claim-- not that nobody believes they're going to die; that's the one we've been talking about for the last lecture or so but instead, the claim that everybody dies alone. This sounds like one of those deep insights into the nature of death. It's got that kind of air of profundity about it that philosophy's thought to have or aspires to have. Everyone dies alone. This is telling us something deep and important and interesting about the nature of death. Now, as it happens, this is one I'm going to be completely dismissive of. I think, as far as I can see, that the claim "we all die alone," however we interpret it, just ends up being implausible or false. I give it such a hard time each time I teach this class, that I'm often tempted to just drop it from the discussion altogether. Even though, if you've done the reading of the Edwards paper that I assigned, you have a series of quotes from Edwards in which people say things like, they die alone. I sometimes come away after this discussion thinking, "Why am I wasting our time? Nobody really believes this, that we all die alone." Last year I was virtually ready to drop it and then, I kid you not, that very afternoon, I came across a quote. I'll share this with you in a second. Somebody saying, "Oh, we all die alone." And then I think it was two days later, a week later, I came across another quote of somebody saying, "Oh, we all die alone." It made me think, "Oh, I guess this is a common enough thought." So here are the two quotes. But I think once you start looking for them, you find them everyplace. This first one is from the folk singer Loudon Wainwright III, from his song Last Man on Earth. "We learn to live together and then we die alone." We die alone. Interesting claim. It seems to say something important about the nature of death. Here's another quote. This is from the children's book, Eldest by Christopher Paolini, the sequel, of course, to the bestseller Eragon. "How terrible,' said Eragon, To die alone, separate, even from the one who is closest to you.'" The answer given to Eragon, "Everyone dies alone, Eragon, whether you are a king on a battlefield or a lowly peasant lying in bed among your family, no one can accompany you into the void? Everyone dies alone." As I say, this is a common enough view. Two quotes. I could certainly produce others. Everyone dies alone. The trick--the question we're going to ask is, can we find some interpretation of that claim under which, first of all it ends up being true, secondly, it ends up being a necessary truth about death? Suppose everyone happens to die on Monday, due to some cosmic coincidence. It might be sort of interesting, but it wouldn't tell us something deep about the nature of death, if people could just as easily die on Tuesday. If it happened to be that everybody dies in a room by themselves, that would be interesting. We might wonder what causes it. But it wouldn't be some deep insight into the nature of death. We're going to get a deep insight if it's a necessary truth about death that everyone dies alone. So it's got to be true. It's got to be a necessary truth. And, of course, it's got to be an interesting claim. If, when we interpret the claim "everyone dies alone," that just ends up being a slightly pretentious way of saying everyone dies, we might say, oh yeah, that is true and it is a necessary truth, but it's not especially surprising. It's not some deep surprising insight into the nature of death. We all knew everyone dies. You take that familiar fact and you wrap it up in the language "everyone dies alone." If that's all you're saying, you're not saying anything interesting. When people say, "You know, everyone dies alone," you're supposed to be gaining some deep insight into the nature of death. Finally, "everyone dies alone" is supposed to say something special about death. It better not be that everyone does everything alone, because--in whatever the relevant sense of alone turns out to be- if everyone does everything alone, then of course that might be interesting. It might be very important and insightful, but you're not saying anything especially interesting about death when you say everyone dies alone, if it's also true that everyone eats their lunch alone. So, all this is, is just, as we begin to ask ourselves, what could it possible mean when people say "everyone dies alone"? we're looking for something that's true, necessary, interesting and, if not unique to death, at least not true of everything. I put these conditions down because, of course, what I want to suggest is although the sentence "everyone dies alone," the claim that everyone dies alone, is one of these things that people say, they're not really thinking very hard about what they mean by it. Because once you actually push people, to pin them down, what do you mean by it, you end up with something that's either just not true, or not interesting, or not necessary, or not particularly unique to death. Take a possible interpretation. The most natural, straightforward, literal, flat-footed interpretation. To say that somebody does something alone means they do it not in the presence of others. Somebody who lives by himself goes to sleep. If there's nobody else in the bedroom, he's sleeping alone. On that straightforward interpretation, to say that everybody dies alone, what we're saying is that it's true of each one of us that he or she dies not in the presence of others. If that was true, it would be sort of surprising, striking. We might wonder whether it's a necessary truth. But at least there'd be something interesting there. But of course, it's not true. We all know full well that sometimes people die in the presence of others. We read earlier this semester Plato's Phaedo, which describes the death scene of Socrates. Socrates drinks the hemlock and dies in the presence of his friends and disciples. Socrates does not die alone. And of course, we know that there are many, many other cases in which people die in the presence of their friends, family, loved ones. It's just not true, given that interpretation, to say we all die alone. So if that's what the claim means, it's false. Our challenge is to find some other interpretation of the claim. All right, second possibility. When people say "everyone dies alone," they don't mean to be saying you die, but not in the presence of others. They mean to be saying rather, even if there are others around you, even if there are others with you, dying is something that you're doing alone. They aren't dying. Socrates' friends and disciples are not dying. He's the only one dying. And so everyone dies alone in that sense. Well, that's an interesting claim, if it's true, but it's not true. We could certainly have battlefields in which many people are dying along with others. There is Jones dying, but he's not dying alone. There's Smith dying at the same time right next to him. If that's what people mean when they say "everyone dies alone," then that's clearly false as well. I presume that's not what people meant either. But then what was it that they did mean? Well, we could do better. We could say, look, when Socrates dies, he's dying alone in the sense that he's doing it by himself. He's not doing it in cooperation with anybody else, in coordination with anybody else. On the battlefield, even if Smith and Jones are both dying, it's not like this is some sort of cooperative, joint undertaking. You could be walking down the sidewalk and Linda could be walking down the sidewalk and even though you're both walking down the sidewalk, you're not walking down the sidewalk together. In contrast, you can walk down the sidewalk with somebody. Say, "Hey, let's go to the library." And you walk down the sidewalk together. Walking is something you can do with others, in the sense that it can be a joint activity, a joint undertaking. Perhaps the claim then is that dying is not something that can be done in that way as a joint undertaking. Even if you're in a room or a battlefield where people are dying at the same time as you, to your left and your right, dying is not and cannot be something that is a joint undertaking. Well, that might be a proposal about what people mean when they say "everybody dies alone." And if it is, all I can say is, again, it just seems to be false. Now admittedly, dying as a joint undertaking is far rarer than dying alone. But for all that, we were looking for some deep insight into the nature of death. Everyone dies alone. Everyone must die alone. That's only going to be true if dying as a joint undertaking is impossible. But it's not impossible. You could have, for example, some sort of suicide pact. There have been cases, gruesome as they may be, in which entire groups of people drink poison together so as to die not alone, but die together, die as part of jointly dying, dying as a group. Or you could have, once told that this sort of thing happens, a couple in love who together jump off the cliff, committing suicide together, dying not alone but with each other as part of a joint undertaking. It certainly seems possible. I take it cases like this actually do occur. So if somebody comes along and says "No, no, everybody dies alone, and dying as part of a joint undertaking is impossible," they're just saying something false. These joint undertakings are like, well, you might think of them analogous to playing chamber music with a string quartet. It's something you're doing with others. It's not just a coincidence that they're doing it at the same time. All these people happen to be playing the violin, viola, or what have you next to you. No, no, we deliberately coordinated with one another so as to together produce this music. It seems possible in the case of string quartets. It seems possible in the case of joint suicide pacts as well. Well, a fan of the claim that we all die alone might come back and say, "Well, in the case of the string quartet, although it's true that I am playing with others, somebody could take my part. Somebody else could play the second violin part for me. Whereas, in contrast, when I die, even if I'm dying with others, nobody can take my part." So perhaps that's what the claim is meant to be when people say, "everybody dies alone." Nobody can die your death for you. Nobody can take your part. Now if that's what they mean, then--a small observation-- they didn't express themselves very clearly. It seems to me rather a long distance from the thought, "nobody can die for me, nobody can take my part," to the claim, "everybody dies alone." That seems a rather misleading, unhelpful way of making your point. But let's just bracket that complaint. It is true that nobody can take my part? Certainly people can take my part in the string quartet. Is it true that nobody can take my part in terms of my death? Not so clear it is true. I don't know how many of you have read Tale of Two Cities. If not, i'm about to spoil the plot for you. Here's at least a strand of the story. The hero of the story is in love with a woman who--alas and alack--does not love him. She loves another man. This other man--alas and alack--has been condemned to death during the French Revolution. Now as it happens--this is a novel--as it happens, our hero looks rather like the other man. And so as the other man is being carted off to the guillotine to be killed, our hero takes his place. Hence, the famous speech, "This a far, far better thing I do today." Our hero sacrifices himself so that the woman he loves can have the man that she loves. Well, for our purposes, the romance isn't crucial. For our purposes, the crucial point is to see that what seems to be going on there is our hero is taking the place of somebody else who's about to die. Just like somebody could take my place in the string quartet, it seems that somebody could take my place at the guillotine. In the American Civil War, there was a draft, but you could avoid it by hiring somebody to take your place, if you were rich enough. Well, you're in some battle, or rather, your troop is in some battle, and people are being killed left and right. Well, I suppose it doesn't strike me as an implausible thing to say that if everybody in the troop got killed and you would have gotten killed had you been there, but instead, the person you hired to take your place gets killed, then he took your place. He substituted for you in the death. So again, we don't have any clear, true interpretation of the claim that nobody can take my place, even with regard to dying. Well, easy to imagine the fan of this view coming back yet again and saying, "Although it's true that our hero takes the place of the other man on the guillotine, what ends up happening, of course, is that our hero dies his own death. He doesn't take over the death of the other man. The death of the other man doesn't take place until 20, 30, 40, whatever it is, years later. Nobody can take my place at my death. Because, of course, if they take my place, they end up living or going through, rather, their death not my death. My death is something that only I can undergo. Now again, that's an interesting claim if it's true. At least it seems to be an interesting claim. It seems to say something interesting about death. Again, I want to just notice that it's a rather odd thing to try to express that point in the language "Everyone dies alone." But just bracket that. Have we at least found something that's necessary, unique to death when we say, "Nobody can die my death for me. I am the only one who can undergo my death"? Each of us must undergo his own death and nobody else's death. Nobody else can undergo their death for them, somebody else's death for them. Well, that does seem to be true and it seems to be a necessary truth. But we're not quite done. Is it saying something deep and interesting about the nature of death? Is it something that's fairly unique to the nature of death? That nobody can die my death for me. Actually, I don't think it is. Consider getting your hair cut at the barber. Now of course, somebody else can take your slot. All right, there's somebody who comes along and says, "Oh, I need to get to a date. I'm going to be late. Would you mind my having your appointment, using your appointment?" "Oh, I'm willing to wait. It's okay," Right? So you might say, in some loose sense they've gotten your haircut. But of course, as it ended up, they didn't really get your haircut. They got their haircut. Think about haircuts. Nobody can get my haircut for me. I'm the only one who can get my haircut. If somebody else tries to get my haircut, they just end up getting their own haircut. Of course, it's not just special about haircuts. Talk about getting your kidney stones removed. Nobody else can get my kidney stones removed for me. I'm the only one who can get my kidney stones removed for me. Think about eating lunch. Nobody can eat my lunch for me. If somebody else tries to eat my lunch, they end up--it becomes their lunch. They've eaten their lunch for themselves. Nobody can eat my lunch for me except for me. If you think about it, it's true about just about everything. Maybe indeed everything. If you emphasize the word "My" enough, nobody can do much of anything for me and still have it be my such and such. In short, even though it's true that nobody can die my death for me, this isn't some deep insight into the special nature of death. It's just a trivial grammatical point about the meaning of the word "My." All right, remember where we're at. We're looking for interpretations of the claim "Everyone dies alone." And by now we've gone rather far afield in the search for an interpretation of that claim. But we have not yet been able to find a claim, an interpretation, which is true, interesting, fairly special about death, as opposed to trivially true about everything, and giving us some relatively interesting insight into the nature of death. I can't see it for the claim "Everyone dies alone." At least not if we try to take these claims fairly literally or take them to be metaphysical claims about the nature of death. But maybe I've just been flatfooted here in thinking that this is some sort of claim about not being with others, or things I do by myself. Maybe the claim "We all die alone" is intended as a kind of metaphor. It's not that we all really do die alone. It's that when we die, it's as though we were alone. It's like being alone. Maybe the claim "We all die alone" is a psychological claim, that the psychological state we are in when we die is similar to loneliness. It's similar to the feeling of being alone that we have in various situations. Now, that would be interesting if it was true. Is it true that when we die we all die having this feeling of loneliness, or perhaps feeling of alienation? It's easy enough to imagine somebody who is surrounded by other people as he's dying. And yet, for all that, feels removed, distant, alienated from the others, feels lonely even in the crowd. Is that true of all of us? Remember, we're looking for a claim that says, that makes it true, that everyone dies alone. Is it true that everyone dies feeling distant and removed? Maybe it was true of Ivan Ilyich. Ivan Ilyich progressively grows more and more distant from his family and friends who, indeed, remove themselves psychologically from him. He faces his death with a feeling of alienation and being alone. It's a metaphor, but still an important insight into his psychology. The question we have to ask is, "Is that true of everybody? Is it true that everybody dies alone in this psychological sense?" It doesn't seem to be true. First of all, notice the obvious point that sometimes people die in their sleep, unexpectedly. They weren't ill. They just die of cardiac arrest while they're sleeping. Such a person presumably is not feeling lonely or alienated while he dies. Well, you might say, "Okay, what we meant was anybody who's awake while they're dying, dies alone." That's not true either. You're crossing the street, talking to your friend, engaged in lively discussion. So lively, you don't notice the truck that's about to hit you. The truck hits you, you die, painlessly and immediately. Well, were you feeling alienated and distant during your final moments? No, it doesn't seem right either. So it certainly doesn't seem true to say that everybody dies feeling these psychological feelings of loneliness. Well, maybe what we should have to do is revise the claim yet again. Everybody who dies awake, realizing that they're dying, facing the fact that they're dying, they all, we all of whom that's true, we all die alone, as long as we realize we're dying. That would take care of the sleep case. That would take care of the truck case. Is the claim true then? It would still be interesting if it was true, even given those restrictions. But it doesn't seem true then either. Again, just recall Socrates. Socrates is engaged in philosophical discussion with his friends, knows he's about to die. He's drunk the hemlock. He's sitting there saying goodbye to everybody. He doesn't seem alienated. He doesn't seem to be feeling distant and alone. It just doesn't seem true that everybody who knows they're going to die and is facing their death feels lonely. Another example of this is another philosopher, David Hume, whom we'll be reading at the end of the semester. We'll be reading his essay on suicide. Hume died, had an illness. He was quite sociable to the end. He used to bring people in to sit around his deathbed talking about various matters with him. He was cheerful and pleasant to the end. And there's, as far as I can see, no reason at all to believe that he was feeling lonely, feeling distant, feeling alienated from the people who were keeping him company. So the psychological reading doesn't do any better, as far as I can see. Well, maybe there's some other interpretation, and I invite you to reflect on the question. Is it true that we all die alone? Is there some way of understanding that claim where it's true, a necessary truth, fairly special and unique, if not altogether unique, at least fairly special about death, showing us some deep insight into the nature of death --as opposed to some trivial insight about the way the possessive first person pronoun "My" Works? I can't find it. So despite the fact that the claim "We all die alone" is one of these things that one hears, I think it's just nonsense. I think it's people talking without giving a moment's thought to what they meant when they said it. All right, where are we? For the first half of the course, we've been engaged in metaphysics, broadly speaking. We've been trying to get clear about the nature of the person, what we're composed of, so that we could then try to get clearer about the nature of survival and identity of persons, so that we could think about the nature of death, metaphysically speaking. What happens when we die? And as you know, I've defended the physicalist conception, according to which all we are are just bodies capable of doing some fancy tricks, capable of P-functioning. And details aside, death is a matter of the body breaking, so that it's no longer able to engage in P-functioning. As we saw, depending on the particular details of which theory of personal identity you accept -the body view, the brain view, the personality theory of personal identity --we might have to say slightly different things about whether the death of my body means I no longer exist, whether we should distinguish the death of the body, the death of the person, and so forth. But those details aside, roughly speaking, the following is true. When the body breaks, I cease to exist as a person. And even if we can hold out the logical possibility of my being resurrected --or my continuing to exist with a different body as long as it's got my personality, if you happen to accept the personality theory --even though there is the logical possibility of surviving my death or coming back to life, I see no good reason to believe that those logical possibilities are actual. As far as I can see, when my body dies, that's it. As a fan of the body view, I believe I'll still exist for a while. I'll exist as a corpse. But that's not the kind of thing about existence that mattered to me. In terms of what mattered to me, what I wanted was not just that I exist, but that I be alive, indeed be a person, indeed be a person with pretty much the same personality. And the truth of the matter is, when my body dies, that's all history. That's where we're at in terms of the metaphysics. We could summarize this by saying, when I die, I cease to exist. That's a little bit misleading, given the view I just sketched where even though I'm dead I still exist for a while as a corpse. But those issues won't concern us in what we're about to turn to. Let's just suppose that, for the sake of avoiding those complications, that when my body dies, it gets destroyed. And so the very same moment will be the end of my body, the end of my existence, the end of my personhood. Let's suppose that my personality doesn't get destroyed any sooner than the death of my body. We've got the end of my existence. Here I am going along. The atomizer comes along, blows me up. Then simultaneously, we've got the death of my person, the death of my body, the end of what matters to me, the end of my existence. Death is the end. And even though these things can come across --can come apart slightly under certain scenarios, those details won't matter for what we're about to turn to. Well, what are we about to turn to? We're about to turn to value theory. We spent the first half of the semester, you might say, trying to get clear about the metaphysical facts. And now that we've done that as best we can, we want to turn to the ethical or value questions. How good or bad is death? Why is--I take it, we all believe death is bad. Why is death bad? How can death be bad? So this is the big continental divide for the course. The first half of the class was metaphysics. Now we turn to value questions. And the first question we're going to be focusing on is just this, the question of the badness of death. How and in what ways is death bad? I take it, most of us do believe that death is bad. That's why we wish--maybe some of us believe, but at the very least the rest of us, many of us hoped --there were souls, so that death wouldn't have to be the end. If death is the end, that seems to be horrible. So we're going to turn to questions like this. How and in what ways is death bad? And then we're going to turn to the question, is it really true that immortality would be good? And eventually, we'll turn to some other value questions about if death really is the end, should we be afraid of death? I take it that fear of death is quite common. But we can actually evaluate different emotions and think about whether these emotional responses are appropriate or not, so we can ask whether or not fear of death is appropriate. We'll turn eventually to the question, how should we live in light of the fact that death is the end? And the last question we'll turn to is, could it ever make sense to kill ourselves? So these are the kind of moral or value questions we'll be concerned with until the end of the term. But the first one is simply, is death bad, as we typically take it to be, and, if so, what is it about it that makes it bad? So again, I'm going to suppose here on out that the metaphysical view that I've been sketching is right; that physicalism is true. The death of my body is the end of my existence as a person. Death is my end. Well, if that's right, how can it be bad for me to die? After all, once I'm dead, I don't exist. If I don't exist, how can it be bad for me that I'm dead? It's easy to see how you might think, how you might worry about the badness of death, if you thought you would survive your death. Now, if you believed in a soul, then you might worry about, well, gosh what's going to happen to my soul after I die? Am I going to make it up to heaven? Am I going to go to hell? You might worry about how badly off you're going to be once you're dead. The question makes perfect sense. But it's often seemed to people that if we really believe that death is the end --and that's the assumption that I'm making here on out --if we really believe death is the end, how can death be bad for me? How could anything be bad for me once I'm dead? If I don't exist, it can't be bad for me. Well, sometimes in response to this thought, people respond by saying, "Look, death isn't bad for the person who's dead. Death is bad for the survivors." John's death isn't bad for John. John's death is bad for the people who loved John and now have to continue living without John. John's death is bad for John's friends and family. When somebody dies, we lose the chance to continue interacting with the person. We're no longer able to talk with them, spend time with them, watch a movie, look at the sunset, have a laugh. We're no longer able to tell our troubles with them and get their advice. We're no longer able to interact with them. All that's gone, when somebody dies. And the claim might be, that's the central bad of death. Not what it does for the person who dies. It's not bad for the person who dies. It's what it does for the rest of them, the rest of us. Now, i don't in any way want to belittle the importance of the pain and suffering that happen for the rest of us when somebody that we care about dies. Indeed, let me take a moment and read a poem that emphasizes this thought, because this is certainly one central, very bad thing about death. It robs us of our friends --we, the survivors— it robs us of our friends and loved ones. Poem. The poem is called Separation, by the German poet, Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock. This is in one of the essays you'll be reading later in the semester by Walter Kaufmann--he quotes it --Death Without Dread. The poem, as I say, is Separation. You turned so serious when the corpse was carried past us; are you afraid of death? "Oh, not of that!" Of what are you afraid? "Of dying." I not even of that. "Then you're afraid of nothing?" Alas, I am afraid, afraid?"Heavens, of what?" Of parting from my friends. And not mine only, of their parting, too. That's why I turned more serious even than you did, deeper in the soul, when the corpse was carried past us The poem is called Separation. According to Klopstock, the crucial badness of death is losing your friends. When they die, you lose them. And as I say, i don't in any way want to belittle the central badness of that. But I don't think it can be at the core in terms of what's bad about death. I don't think that can be the central fact about why death is bad. And to see this, let me tell you two stories. Compare them. Story number one. Your friend is about to go on the spaceship which is going to do the exploration of Jupiter or whatever. And they're going to be gone for years, years and years. It takes so long that by the time the spaceship comes back, 100 years will have gone by. Maybe it's not Jupiter. It's farther away. Worse still, after about 20 minutes after the ship takes off, all radio contact between ship and earth will be destroyed. It won't be possible, because of the speed. It's not going to Jupiter. It's going to some other planetary system. So, all possibility of communication will be destroyed. Now, this is horrible. You're losing your closest friend. You will no longer be able to talk to them, share the moments, get their insights and advice. You'll no longer be able to tell them about the things that have been going on. It's the same kind of separation that Klopstock was talking about. Horrible, and it's sad. That was story number one. Story number two, just like story number one, the spaceship takes off, and about 15 minutes later, it explodes in a horrible accident and everybody on the spaceship, including your friend, is killed. Now, I take it that story number two is worse. Something worse has taken place. Well, what's the worse thing? We've got of course the very same separation we had in story number one. I can't communicate in the future with my friend. They can't communicate with me. But we had that already in story number one. If there's something worse about story number two, and I think it's pretty clear there is something worse, it's not the separation. It's something about the fact that your friend has died. Now of course, this is worse for me, as somebody who cares about my friend, that he's died. But the explanation of what's bad for me, in his having died, is the fact that it's bad for him to have died. And the badness for him isn't just a matter of separation, because that we already had in number one. We couldn't communicate with him. He couldn't communicate with us. If we want to get at the central badness of death, it seems to me, we can't focus on the badness of separation, the badness for the survivors. We have to think about how is it, how could it be true, that death is bad for the person that dies? That's the central badness of death and that's the one I'm going to have us focus on. How could it be true that death is bad for the person that dies? That's the question we turn to next time. 



 Chapter 16: 死亡之害（二）：剥夺性解释


Last time we made the turn from metaphysics to value theory. We started asking about what it is about death that makes it bad. The first aspect of the badness of death that we talked about was the fact that when somebody dies, that's hard on the rest of us. We're left behind having to cope with the loss of this person that we love. Nonetheless, it seems likely that if we want to get clear about the central badness of death, it can't be a matter of the loss for those who remain behind, but rather the loss, the badness of death, for the person who dies. That, at any rate, is what I want to focus on from here on out. What exactly is it about my death, or the fact that I'm going to die, that makes that bad for me? Now, I want to get clear about precisely what it is we want to focus in on here. Now, one thing that could be bad, obviously, is the process of dying could be a painful one. It might be, for example, that I get ripped to pieces by Bengali tigers. And if so, then the actual process of dying would be horrible. It would be painful. And clearly it makes sense to talk about the process of dying as something that could potentially be bad for me. Although similarly, I might die in my sleep, in which case the process of dying would not be bad for me. At any rate, I take it that most of us, although we might have some passing concern about the possibility that our process of dying might be a painful one, that's not, again, the central thing we're concerned about when we face the fact that we're going to die. It's also true, of course, that many of us find--; here, right now, while we're not actually dying-- the prospect of dying to be unpleasant. So, one of the things that's bad about my death for me is that right now I've got some unhappy thoughts as I anticipate the fact that I'm going to die. But again, that can't be the central thing that's bad about death, because the prospect of my death-- it makes sense for that to be a painful one or an unpleasant one, only given the further claim that death itself is bad for me. Having fear or anxiety or concern or regret or anguish or whatever it is that maybe I have now about the fact that I'm going to die, piggybacks on the logically prior thought that death itself is bad for me. If it didn't piggyback in that way, it wouldn't make any sense to have fear or anxiety or dread or anguish or whatever it is that I may have now. I mean, suppose I said to you, "Tomorrow something's going to happen to you and that thing is going to be simply fantastic, absolutely incredible, absolutely wonderful." And you said, "Well, I believe you and I have to tell you, I'm just filled with dread and foreboding in thinking about it." That wouldn't make any sense at all. It makes sense to be filled with dread or foreboding or what have you only if the thing you're looking forward to, anticipating, is itself bad. Maybe, for example, it makes sense to dread going to the dentist, if you believe that being at the dentist is a painful, unpleasant experience. But if being at the dentist isn't itself unpleasant, it doesn't make sense to dread it in anticipation. So again, if we're thinking about the central badness of death, it seems to me that we've got to focus on my being dead. What is it about my being dead that's bad for me? Now, if we pose that question, it seems as though the answer should be simple and straightforward. When I'm dead, I won't exist. Now previously, in the first part of the class, we spent some time saying that, look, on certain views, there'll be a period of time in which you might be dead, but your body might still be alive. Or you might be dead, but even though your body still exists, it's not alive, but you exist as a corpse. Put all that aside. Go to the period beyond any of that murky stuff in the short-term and just, for simplicity, let's suppose with the physicalists that once I die, I cease to exist. All right. So, don't we have the answer to what's bad about death right there? When I'm dead, I won't exist. Isn't that the straightforward explanation about why death is bad? Now, what I want to say, in effect, is this. I do think the fact that I won't exist does provide the key to getting clear about how and why death is bad. But I don't think it's quite straightforward. I think, as we'll see, it actually takes some work to spell out exactly how death, how nonexistence, could be bad for me. And even having done that, there'll be some puzzles that remain that we'll be turning to in a little while. So, the basic idea seems to be straightforward enough. When I'm dead, I won't exist. Isn't it clear that nonexistence is bad for me? Well, immediately you get an objection. You say, how could nonexistence be bad for me? After all, the whole point of nonexistence is you don't exist. How could anything be bad for you when you don't exist? Isn't there a kind of logical requirement that for something to be bad for you, you've got to be around to receive that bad thing? A headache, for example,can be bad for you. But of course, you exist during the headache. Headaches couldn't be bad for people who don't exist. They can't experience or have or receive headaches. How could anything be bad for you when you don't exist? And in particular, then, how could nonexistence be bad for you when you don't exist? So it's not, as I say, altogether straightforward to see how the answer "Death is bad for me, because when I'm dead I don't exist," how that answers the problem, as opposed to simply focusing our attention on the problem how can nonexistence be bad for me? The answer to this objection, I think, is to be found in drawing a distinction between two different ways in which something can be bad for me. On the one hand, something can be bad for me, we might say, in an absolute, robust, intrinsic sense. Take a headache, again, or some other kind of pain-- stubbing your toe or getting stabbed or whatever it is, being tortured. Pain is intrinsically bad. It's bad in its own right. It's something we want to avoid for its own sake. And those--; Normally, things that are bad for you are bad intrinsically. They're bad by virtue of their very nature. There's something about the way they are that you don't want those that are bad in their own right. But there's another way of something being bad for you that it's easy to overlook. Something can be bad comparatively. Something could be bad because of what you're not getting while you get this bad thing. It could be what the economists call bad by virtue of "The opportunity costs." It's not that it's intrinsically bad; it's bad because while you're doing this, you're not getting something better. How could that be? Let's have a simple example. Suppose that I stay home and watch something on TV-- Deal or No Deal. I watch this on TV and I have a good enough time. How could that be bad for me? Well, in terms of the first notion of bad, something being intrinsically bad, it's not bad. It's a pleasant enough way to spend a half an hour, or however long the show is on. On the other hand, suppose what I could be doing instead of watching a half an hour of television is being at a really great party. Then we might say, the fact that I'm stuck home watching television is bad for me in this comparative sense. It's not that it's, in itself, an unpleasant way to spend some time; it's just that there's a better way to spend time that I could be doing, in principle at least. If only I'd gone. If only I'd been invited. If only I remembered, what have you. And because I'm foregoing that better good, there's something bad, comparatively speaking, about the fact that I'm stuck at home watching TV. There's a lack of the better good. A lack is not intrinsically bad, but it's still a kind of bad in this second sense. To be lacking a good is, itself, bad for me. Similarly, suppose I hold out two envelopes and I say, "Pick one." And you open up the first one, you pick the first one, and you open it up and you say, "Hey look, ten bucks! Isn't that good for me?" Well, of course, ten bucks is intrinsically good. Anyway, well, it's not intrinsically good, it's only good as a means to buy something. But it's sort of good. It's worth having for its own right, because of what it can get you. But if unbeknownst to you, the other envelope had $1,000 in it, then we can say, "Look, it's bad for you that you picked the first envelope." Bad in what sense? Because you would have been better off, had you picked the second envelope. You would have been having more good, or a greater amount of good. Well, nonexistence can't be bad for me in our first sense. It can't be that nonexistence is intrinsically bad, worth avoiding for its own sake. That would only make sense if nonexistence was somehow, for example, painful. But when you don't exist, you have no painful experiences. There's nothing about nonexistence in and of itself that makes us want to avoid it. Nonexistence is only bad for me in this comparative sense, because of the lack. When I don't exist, I'm lacking stuff. What am I lacking? Well, of course, what I'm lacking is life and more particularly still, the good things that life can give me. So, nonexistence is bad by virtue of the opportunity costs that are involved. Famously, W.C. Fields on his tombstone says, "Personally, I'd rather be in Philadelphia." What's bad about being dead is you don't get to experience and enjoy any longer the various good things that life would offer us. So nonexistence does point to the key aspect about death. Why is death bad? Because when I'm dead I don't exist. But if we ask, why is and how can it be the case that nonexistence is bad? The answer is, because of the lack of the good things in life. Because when I don't exist, I am not getting the things that I could have otherwise gotten, if only I were still alive. Death is bad because it deprives me of the good things in life. This account is nowadays known as the deprivation account of the evil or badness of death, for obvious reasons, right? The key thought is, the central bad about death, about nonexistence, is that it deprives you of the goods of life you might otherwise be getting. That's the deprivation account. And it seems to me that the deprivation account basically has it right. Eventually, I'll go on to argue that there are other aspects of death that may also contribute to its badness, aspects above and beyond the one that gets focused on by the deprivation account. But still, it seems to me the deprivation account points us correctly to the central thing about death that's bad. What's most importantly bad about the fact that I'll be dead is the fact that when I'm dead, I won't be getting the good things in life. I'll be deprived of them. That's the badness of death according to the deprivation account. Now, if we accept the deprivation account, if we try to accept the deprivation account, we face some further philosophical puzzles. Puzzles that many people have thought are sufficiently overwhelming that we, despite the initial plausibility of the deprivation account, have to give it up. First objection is this. Look, if something is true, a quite general point, it seems, about metaphysics-- if something is true, there's got to be a time when it's true. If I make some claim about a fact, there's got to be a time when that fact is true. Here's a fact. Shelly's lecturing to you now about the badness of death. When is that fact true? When was that fact true? Well, right now. Here's another fact. Shelly once lectured to you about the nature of personal identity. When was that fact true? Well, we can point to a period of perhaps a week or two last month when I was lecturing to you about personal identity. Things that are facts can be dated. All right. That seems right. But if it is right, then immediately we've got a puzzle. How could death be bad for me? If death was bad for me, that would be a fact. If my death is bad for me, that would be a fact and we'd ask, well, when is that fact true? We might say, well, it's not true now. Death isn't bad for me now. I'm not dead now. Maybe death is bad for me when I'm dead? But that seems very hard to believe. I mean, when I'm dead, I don't exist, right? How could anything be bad for me then? Surely you've got to exist. So, there's a puzzle about dating the badness of death. Now, it may be that this puzzle about time and the date of the badness of death is what Epicurus had in mind. There's a passage that I'm going to read to you in a moment from Epicurus. This passage has puzzled people, it has puzzled philosophers ever since. Epicurus seems to be putting his finger on something puzzling about death, though it's difficult to pin down exactly what it is that's bugging him. So we're going to try an interpretation or two. But first, here's the passage from Epicurus. "So death, the most terrifying of ills, is nothing to us, since so long as we exist, death is not with us; but when death comes, then we do not exist. It does not then concern either the living or the dead, since for the former it is not, and the latter are no more." You see, it's not altogether clear what Epicurus is bothered by there, but one possible interpretation is this puzzle about the timing of the badness of death. Death can't be bad for me now, because I'm alive. Death can't be bad for me when I'm dead. I am no more; then how can things be bad for me then? But if death has no time at which it's bad for me, and if anything that's true, any fact has to have a time when it's true, then the purported fact that death is bad for me can't really be a fact. All right. How could we respond to this objection? Well, one way of course is to accept the objection and say, "You're right. Death isn't really bad for me." And some philosophers have indeed accepted that very conclusion, maybe Epicurus. Most of us want to say, "No, no. Death is bad for me." So we need a better answer to the, "Oh yeah? When is it bad for you?" objection. Two possible responses. One possible response would be to grab the bull by the horns and say, "Death is bad for me. Facts do have to be dated. Let me tell you when it's bad for me." The other possible response is to grab, as it were, the other horn and say, "You know, death is bad for me and I agree that I can't date it, but you're wrong to assume that all facts have to be datable. There are some things that are true that we can't put a date on." Let's start with the second. Could there be some things that are true that we can't put a date on? Well, here's one I think, maybe. Suppose that on Monday I shoot John. I wound him with the bullet that comes out of my gun. But it's not a wound directly into his heart. He simply starts bleeding. And he bleeds slowly. So he doesn't die on Monday. He's wounded and he's dying, but he doesn't die on Monday. On Tuesday, let's suppose that I have a heart attack and I die. John's still around--bleeding, but still around. On Wednesday, the loss of blood finally overtakes him and John dies. All right? So, I shoot him on Monday, I die on Tuesday, John dies on Wednesday. Now, I killed John. I take it we're all in agreement about that. If I hadn't shot him, he wouldn't be dead. I killed him. When did I kill him? Did I kill him on Monday, the day I shot him? That doesn't seem right. He's not dead on Monday. How could I kill him on Monday? Oh, he died on Wednesday. Did I kill him on Wednesday? Well, how could that be? I don't even exist on Wednesday. I died myself on Tuesday. How can I kill him after I'm dead? So I didn't kill him on Monday, didn't kill him--rather on Wednesday. I didn't kill him on Monday, didn't kill him on Wednesday when he dies. When did I kill him? Well, maybe the answer is there's no particular time at all when I killed him. But for all that, it's true that I killed him. What makes it true that I killed him? What makes it true that I killed him is that on Monday I shot him and on Wednesday, he died from the wound. That's what makes it true. But when did I kill him? Maybe we can't date that. Suppose we can't. If we can't, then there are facts that you can't date, like the fact that I killed John. If there are facts that you can't date, maybe here's another one. My death is bad for me. When is that true? Can't date it, but for all that, maybe it's true. So maybe we shouldn't accept the assumption of the argument that all facts can be dated. Of course, the thought that all facts can be dated is a very powerful one, and no doubt, many of you are going to go home and start trying to come up with an adequate answer to the question, when exactly did Shelly kill John? And come up with an answer, maybe, that you can even accept. At any rate, maybe we should accept the thought that all facts can be dated. In which case, if we're going to want to insist that my death is bad for me, we'd better be able to come up with a date. Well, maybe we can. When would it be plausible to claim my death is bad for me? Well, not now. My death can't be bad for me now. I'm not dead. But it's not 100% clear that the other alternative isn't acceptable. Why not say, "My death is bad for me when I'm dead"? After all, when is a headache bad for me? When the headache is occurring. Now, according to the deprivation account, the badness of death consists in the fact that when you're dead, you are deprived of the goods of life. So when is death bad for you? During the time perhaps you're being deprived of the goods of life. Well, when are you deprived of the goods of life? When you're dead. When does the deprivation actually occur? When you're dead. So perhaps we should just say, "Well, you were right, Epicurus," if this was Epicurus' argument. "You were right, Epicurus. All facts have to be dated, but we can date the badness of death. My death is bad for me during the time I'm dead. Because during that time, I'm deprived of, I'm not getting, the good things in life that I would be getting if only I were still alive." Well, that's a possible response to the objection. But of course, it just immediately raises a further objection. How could it be that death is bad for me then? How could it be that death is bad for me when I don't exist? Surely, I have to exist in order for something to be bad for me. Or, for that matter, for something to be good for me. Don't you need to exist in order for something to be good or bad for you? Well, this points our way to a different possible interpretation of Epicurus' argument. The argument would be A something could be bad, or for that matter, good for you only if you exist; B when you're dead you don't exist; so C death can't be bad for you. Put that up on the board. A Something can be bad for you only if you exist. B When you're dead you don't exist. So, conclusion C, death can't be bad for you. Maybe that's the argument that Epicurus had in mind. Let's hear Epicurus'-- the quote from Epicurus again. "So death, the most terrifying of ills, is nothing to us, since so long as we exist, death is not with us; but when death comes, then we do not exist. It does not then concern either the living or the dead, since for the former it is not, and the latter are no more." Again, the passage from Epicurus isn't altogether clear, but maybe he's got in mind something like this argument. Maybe Epicurus thinks look, A something can be bad for you only if you exist; B when you're dead you don't exist; so C death can't be bad for you. Well, what should we say? It's pretty clear that B is true. When you're dead you don't exist. And so the conclusion C, death can't be bad for you, looks like it's going to follow, once we accept A. Call A the existence requirement. Something can be bad or, for that matter, good for you, only if you exist. That's the existence requirement for bads and goods. If we accept the existence requirement, it looks as though we have to accept the conclusion, death can't be bad for you. What should we say? Maybe what we should say is, reject the existence requirement. In the ordinary case, pains, being blind, being crippled, what have you, losing your job--in the ordinary case, things are bad for you when you exist. In the ordinary case, in order to receive bads, you've got to exist. But perhaps that's only the ordinary case; it's not all cases. Perhaps we should say, look, for certain kinds of bads you don't need to even exist in order for those things to be bad for you. What kind of bads could be like that? Well, of course, deprivation bads would be exactly like that. To lack something, you don't need to exist. Indeed, the very fact that you don't exist might provide the very explanation as to why you've got the deprivation, why you've got the lack. Not all lacks might be like that, right? Remember the television case. You existed while you were being deprived of the great party. You existed while you were getting the mere $10 instead of the $1,000. So, sometimes deprivations coincide with existence. But the crucial point about deprivations is you don't even need to so much as exist in order to be deprived of something. Nonexistence guarantees that you're deprived of something. So perhaps we should just reject the existence requirement. Perhaps we should say, when we're talking about lacks, when we're talking about deprivations, A is wrong. We should reject the existence requirement. Something can be bad for you even if you don't exist. The existence requirement is false. Well, that would be a possible way to respond to this second possible interpretation of Epicurus' argument. It would be a way to retain the thought that I take it we want to have, that most of us share, at least, that death is bad. We'd be able to retain that thought by rejecting the existence requirement. Well, easy to say that, but there are some implications of rejecting the existence requirement that may be rather hard to swallow. Think about exactly what it's saying. It's saying something, for example death, nonexistence, can be bad for somebody even though they don't exist. That's why my death can be bad for me even though I won't exist. But if death can be bad for somebody even though they don't exist, then death could be bad for somebody, that is to say, nonexistence could be bad for somebody, who never exists. Take somebody who is a possible person, but never actually gets born. It's sort of hard to think about somebody like that. So let's try to get at least a little bit more concrete. I need two volunteers. I need a male volunteer from the audience. Good. Okay, you'll be the male volunteer. And I need a female volunteer from the audience. Come on, it won't hurt. I need a female volunteer. Okay. What I'd like you to do after class is go have sex and have a baby. Okay. Now, let me just suppose that this isn't actually going to happen. Sorry. Or sorry, I don't know. Let's consider, though, the possibility never to be actualized, the possibility that they would have sex and have a baby. His sperm joined with her egg, form a fertilized egg. The fertilized egg develops into a fetus. The fetus is eventually born. It's the fetus that we got by mixing egg 37 with sperm 4,000,309. There's a person that could have been born. But let's suppose, never does get born. That particular person who could have been born, let's call Larry. Okay. Larry is a possible person. It could happen, but won't happen. It could exist, but won't exist. Now, how many of us feel sorry for Larry? Probably nobody. After all, Larry never even exists. How can we feel sorry for Larry? Now, that made perfect sense when we accepted the existence requirement, something can be bad for you only if you exist. Since Larry never exists, nothing can be bad for Larry. But once we give up on the existence requirement, once we say something can be bad for you even if you never exist, then we no longer have any grounds for withholding our sympathy from Larry. We can say, "Oh my gosh! Think of all the goods in life that Larry would have had, if only he'd been born. But he never is born, so he's deprived of all those goods." And if death is bad for me, by virtue of being deprived of the goods of life, then nonexistence is bad for Larry, by virtue of his being deprived of all the goods of life. I've got it bad. I'm going to die. Larry's got it worse. We should really feel much sorrier for Larry. But I bet none of you feels sorry for Larry, this never-to-be-born-at-all person. Now, it's important in thinking about this, that we not slip back into some version of the soul view, especially some version of the soul view where the souls are prior existents. You might imagine--there's a scene in Homer, I think, where some sort of sacrifice is being made and all the dead souls go hover around, longing to be alive again, to savor the food and taste and smells of life, right? If you've got this picture of the nonexistent, merely potentially possible but never-to-be born individuals as somehow really already existing in a kind of ghost-like state, wishing they were born, maybe you should feel sorry for them. But that's not what the story is at all on the physicalist picture that I'm assuming. Nonexistent people don't have a kind of spooky, wish-I-were-alive ghost-like existence. They just don't exist, full stop. So once we keep that in mind about Larry, it's very hard to feel sorry for him. Of course, look, since I've been going on about how he's deprived of all the good things in life, maybe some of you are feeling sorry for Larry. So it's worth getting clear about just what it would mean to take seriously the thought that it's bad for merely potential people never to be born. How many merely potential people are there? I want you to get a sense of just how many there are. Not just Larry, the unborn person that would exist if we mixed whatever it was, you know, egg 37 and sperm 4,000,029, whatever the number was. Not just Larry, who's a potential person who never gets born, that would have to be an object of our sympathy, there's a lot of merely potential, never-to-be-born people. How many? A lot. How many? Well, I once tried to calculate. Well, as you'll see, the calculation is utterly off the back of the envelope, sort of rough and completely inadequate in ways that I'll point out. But at least it'll give you a sense of just how many potential people there are. Let's start modestly and ask: How many possible people could we, the current generation, produce? Now as I say, I made this calculation some years ago. It doesn't really matter how inaccurate it's going to be. As we'll see, it's very rough, but it makes the point. How many people are there? How many possible people, rather, could there be? Well, suppose there were 5 billion people. Roughly half of them are men, half of them are women. What we want to know then is, how many possible people could the 2.5 billion men make altogether with the 2.5 billion women? The crucial point in thinking about this is to realize that every time you combine a different egg with a different sperm, you end up with a different person, right? If you combine an egg with a different sperm, you get a different genetic code that develops into a different person. You combine that sperm with a different egg, you get a different person. You know, if my parents had had sex five minutes earlier or five minutes later, presumably some other sperm would have joined with the egg. That would have been not me being born, but some sibling being born instead of me. Change the egg, change the sperm, you get a different person. So what we really want to know is, how many sperm-egg combinations are there with roughly 5 billion people in the world? Well, let's see. There's 2.5 billion women, 2.5 billion women. How many eggs can a woman have? Well, fertile periods, round numbers, it's not really going to matter, precision, roughly 30 years, roughly 12 eggs a year. So that's how many eggs. Actually, I discovered some time after having done this calculation that the number of possible eggs is far greater. A woman actually ovulates and gives off this many eggs roughly during her fertile period. But there's many, many other cells, I gather, that could have developed into eggs. So that's a much, much larger number of potential eggs. But this will do. 30 years, 12 eggs a year. How many men? Roughly 2.5 billion men. Each man has a much longer period in which he's able to produce sperm. Let's just be round numbers here, 50 years. How many times a day can the man have sex? Well, certainly more than once, but let's be modest here and just say once a day. So that's 365 times a day--a year. 365 days a year. 365 days, I guess that should be. I wrote it too big. I don't have space left for the last number. Each time the man ejaculates, he gives off a lot of sperm. How much sperm? A lot. As it happens, I looked this up once. Round numbers, 40 million sperm each time the man ejaculates. So this last number has got to be times 40 million sperm. Okay, so we took all the men that exist now and all the women that exist now and ask: How many merely possible people? You know, most of these people are never going to be born, of course. But we're talking about possible people. How many possible people are there? There's 2.5 billion times 30 times 12 times 2.5 billion times 50 times 365 times 40 million. That equals--I'm going to round here. That equals approximately 1.5 million billion billion billion people. That's 1.5 x 1033. That's how many possible people we could have, roughly speaking, in the next generation, of which obviously a miniscule fraction are going to be born. There's--if you're going to feel sorry for Larry, you've got to feel sorry for every merely possible person. Every person who could have been born that never gets born. And there's 1.5 million billion billion billion such people, such possible people. And of course, the truth of the matter is, we barely scratched the surface here. Because now think of all those people and think about all the possible children they could have. We got this number starting with a mere 5 billion people. Imagine the number we would get if we then calculated how many possible grandchildren we could have. I don't mean that we could actually have all of those people at the same time, but for each one there is a possible person that could have existed. You quickly end up with more possible people than there are particles in the known universe. And that was just two generations, right? Three generations, you're going to have more. Four generations, you're going to have more. If we think about the number of possible people, people who could have existed but will never exist, the number just boggles the mind. And then, if we say we've gotten rid of the existence requirement and so things can be bad for you even if you never actually exist, then we have to say of each and every single one of those billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions of possible people that it's a tragedy that they never get born, because they're deprived of the goods of life. If we do away with the existence requirement, then the tragedy of the unborn possible people is a moral tragedy that mere--that just staggers the mind. The worst possible moral horrors of human history don't begin to even be in the same ballpark as the moral horror of the loss, the deprivation for all of these unborn possible people. Now, I don't know about you, when I think about it, all I can say is it doesn't strike me as being a moral catastrophe. I don't feel anguish and sorrow and dismay at the loss, at the lack, at the deprivation for the untold billion, billion, billion, billions. But if we give up the existence requirement and explain the badness of my death via the deprivation account, we do have to say this is a moral tragedy, the fact that the billions upon billions are never born. Well, if we're not prepared to say that's a moral tragedy, well, we could avoid that by going back to the existence requirement. But of course, if we do go back to the existence requirement, then we're back with Epicurus' argument. Something can be bad for you only if you exist. When you're dead, you don't exist. So, death can't be bad for you. And now we've really got ourselves in a philosophical pickle, don't we? If I accept the existence requirement, we've got an argument that says death isn't bad for me, which is really rather surprising. I can keep the claim that death is bad for me by giving up the existence requirement. But if I give up the existence requirement, I've got to say it's a tragedy that Larry and the untold billions, billions, billions, billions --it's a tragedy that they're deprived of life as well. And that seems unacceptable. What should we do? What should we say? The suggestion is that the key here is to think about the claim that I'm using deprived in two different senses. That when we worry about my death, I'm losing something--namely, life--that I've had. But in the case of Larry and the untold billions, they never had life. And so they're not deprived of it in that same sense. I think it's a very promising suggestion. And indeed, I'm not 100% sure I've got exactly where you want to go with this in mind, but I think there's a way of taking that thought and sort of carving a middle path. The problem effectively was this. If we don't throw in any existence requirement, we have to feel sorry for the unborn billion, billion, billions. That doesn't seem acceptable. If we throw in the existence requirement, something can be bad for you only if you exist, we end up saying death isn't bad for me, because I'm not existing when I'm dead. But maybe there's a more modest way of understanding the existence requirement. Or to put the point in slightly different terms, maybe we can distinguish between two different versions of the existence requirement, a bolder and a more modest version. Let's see. Here's the modest version. Something can be bad for you only if you exist at some time or the other. Bolder claim. Something can be bad for you only if you exist at the same time as that thing. All right. These are two different ways of understanding what the existence requirement requires. The modest version is called modest because it's asking less. It says something can be bad for you only if you exist at some time or the other. The bold existence requirement adds a stronger requirement. It says something can be bad for you only if you exist at the very same time as the thing that's supposed to be bad for you. There's got to be a kind of simultaneity. If something's bad for you, you had better exist at the very same time that that bad thing is happening. That's bolder than the modest requirement. The modest requirement doesn't require that you exist that the same time as the bad thing. It only requires that you exist at some time or the other. One more minute, we'll finish up. Suppose we accept the bold claim. For something to be bad for you, you have to exist at the very same time as the bad thing. Then death can't be bad for you, because you don't exist at the time of death. Suppose, however, that we accept the modest requirement. For something to be bad for you, you have to exist at some time or the other. Well, since I do exist at some time or the other -after all, I exist right now --death can be bad for me. Admittedly, I won't exist when I'm dead. But that's okay. The modest existence requirement doesn't require that I exist at the very same time as the bad thing. The bold one did, but the modest one doesn't. So the modest one allows us to say that death is bad for me. But notice, and this is the crucial point, it does not say that nonexistence is bad for Larry, because Larry never exists at all. And so he doesn't even satisfy the modest existence requirement. In short, with no existence requirement, we have to say the unexistence of the billions and billions is bad. That seems unacceptable. With the bold existence requirement, we have to say death isn't even bad for me. That seems unacceptable. But if, instead, we accept the modest existence requirement, we're able to say, nonexistence is not bad for Larry, but death is bad for me. And so that's the view that it seems to me we should be looking at. Okay. 



 Chapter 17: 死亡之害（三）：不朽性（一）


Last time I sketched the deprivation account. That's a story or theory about what it is about death that makes it bad. What's bad about death is the fact that, because you're dead, because you don't exist, you're deprived of the good things in life. Being dead isn't intrinsically bad. It's not like it's an unpleasant experience. But it's comparatively bad. You're worse off by virtue of the fact that you're not getting the things that you would get, were you still alive. If I'm dead I can't spend time with my loved ones. I can't look at sunsets. I can't listen to music. I can't discuss philosophy. The deprivation account says, what's bad about death is the fact that you're deprived of the good things in life. Now, that seems pretty plausible, as a basic story goes. But as we also saw last time, there are some philosophical puzzles about how it could be. The question of when is death bad for you, and even more importantly and more essentially, there's the difficulty of asking ourselves, do we really believe it's possible for something to be bad for you, when you don't even exist? We saw a series of difficult choices. If we don't throw in an existence requirement, if we don't say--to put it more positively, if we say things can be bad for you even if you don't exist at all, then we're forced to say that things are bad for Larry. You'll recall that larry was our name for a potential person, somebody who could have come into existence but never actually does or will come into existence. Well, talk about people who are deprived of the good things in life, Larry's completely deprived of the good things in life. If we think it doesn't matter whether or not you exist, for things to be bad for you, then we have to say, "Oh, things are bad for Larry." And not just Larry, but all of the 1.5 million, billion, billion, billion never-to-be-born people. The number of potential people is just staggering. And if we throw away an existence requirement, we have to say it's a moral tragedy of unspeakable proportions that these people are never born, that they never come into existence. Now, there are philosophers who are prepared to say that. But if you're not prepared to say that, it looks as though you've got to accept some kind of existence requirement. Why don't we feel sorry for Larry and his billions upon billions of never-to-be-born compatriots? Because, indeed, they don't exist. They're merely possible. And we might say, you've got to exist in order for something to be bad for you. But once we say that, it seems we're running towards the position that, in that case, death can't be bad for me, because of course, when I'm dead, I don't exist. So how can anything be bad for me? I proposed at the end of class last time that we could try to solve this problem by distinguishing between two versions of the existence requirement-- a more modest version and the bolder version. The bolder version says, "In order for something to be bad for you, you've got to exist at the very time that it's happening." If we say that, then indeed, we can say, "It's not bad that Larry doesn't exist, because he doesn't exist now." So there's nothing-- even if we wanted to think that there are good things he could be having, that's not bad for him to not have them. He doesn't exist now. But it also, if we go all the way to the bold existence requirement, we have to say, "Look, when I'm dead that won't be bad for me, because, well, I won't exist then." But instead of accepting the bold existence requirement, we might settle for something a little bit less demanding, the thing I dub "The modest existence requirement." In order for something to be bad for you, there has to have been a time, some time or the other, when you exist. You've got to, as it were, exist at least briefly in order to get into the club, as we might put it, of those creatures, those possible creatures that we care about and are concerned about morally. You have to have gotten in the club by at least having existed for some period of time. But once you're in the club, things can be bad for you, even if you don't happen to exist at that particular moment. If we accept the modest existence requirement, then we can say, it's not bad that Larry doesn't exist, because, well, Larry doesn't get into the club. In order to get into the club of things that we feel sorry for, you have to have existed at least some moment or the other. Larry and the billions upon billions upon billions of potential people who never actually come into existence, they don't satisfy the requirement of having existed at some time or the other. So we don't have to feel sorry for them. But we can feel sorry for somebody who died last week at the age of 10 because we can say, well, they existed, albeit very briefly. And so they're in the club of beings that we can feel sorry for and say, look, it's bad for them that they're not still alive. Think of all the good things in life they would be getting if they were still alive. So the modest existence requirement allows us to avoid both extremes. Maybe then that's the position that we should accept. It may be, on balance, the best possible view here. But I just want to emphasize that even the modest existence requirement is not without its counterintuitive implications. Consider somebody's life. Suppose that somebody's got a nice long life. Comes into existence, leads-- lives 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 years. Nice life. Now, imagine that we bring it about that instead of living 90 years, they have a somewhat shorter life-- 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 years. We've caused them to die after 50 years as opposed to the 90 years they might have otherwise had. Well, we can say, look, that's worse for them-- to live merely 50 years instead of the full 90 or 100 years. And if we accept the modest existence requirement, we can say that, because after all, whether you live 50 years or 90 years, you did exist at some time or the other. So the fact that you lost the 40 years you otherwise would have gotten, well, that's bad for you. There. Fair enough. That gives us the answer we want. That's not counterintuitive. Now, imagine that instead of living 50 years, the person lives only 10, 20 years and then dies. Well, that's worse still. Think of all the extra goods they would have gotten if only they hadn't died then. And if I caused them to die after 20 years instead of 50 or 90 years, I've made things worse and worse. Imagine that I caused them to die after one year. Worse still. All this is perfectly intuitive. The shorter their life, the worse it is for them, the more they're deprived of the good things in life. So 90-year life, not bad. 50-year life, worse. 10-year life, worse still. One-year life, worse still. One-month life, worse still. One day life, worse still. One-minute life, worse still. One-second life, worse still. Now, imagine that I bring it about that the person never comes into existence at all. Oh, that's fine. See? That's the implication of accepting the modest existence requirement. If I shortened the life they would have had so completely that they never get born at all, or they never come into existence at all, then they don't satisfy the requirement of having existed at some time or the other. So although we were making things worse and worse and worse and worse and worse as we shortened the life, when we finally snip out that last little fraction of a second, it turns out we didn't make things worse at all. Now we haven't done anything objectionable. That's, it seems, what you've got to say if you accept the modest existence requirement. Of course, if we didn't have an existence requirement at all, we could say, "Well look, worst of all, never to have been born at all." Fair enough. But if you say that, then you've got to feel sorry for Larry. You've got to feel sorry for the 1.5 million billion, billion, billions. So which view is it that on balance is the-- I don't want to say "Most plausible." I think when we start thinking about these puzzles, every alternative seems unattractive in its own way. Maybe the most we could hope for is, which is the least implausible thing to say here? I'm not altogether certain. Let me turn to one more trouble or problem or puzzle for the deprivation account. And this particular puzzle arises whether or not we accept an existence requirement, whether or not we accept a bold existence requirement, a modest existence requirement, or no existence requirement, because we're going to deal with somebody who actually does exist at some time or the other, namely you or me. This is actually a puzzle that some of you may have written your paper on, because it's the puzzle about Lucretius, the puzzle that Lucretius gives us. It's not a direct quote, but Lucretius basically says, look, most of us are upset and anxious at the fact that we're going to die. We think death is bad for us. There'll be this period after my death in which I won't exist. And the deprivation account helps say why that's bad, because during this period of nonexistence, you're not enjoying the good things in life. Fair enough, says Lucretius, but wait a minute. The period after you die isn't the only period during which you don't exist. It's not the only period in which if only you were still alive, you could still be enjoying the good things in life. There's another period of nonexistence. It's the period before my birth. I think I've just switched the timeline here, but all right. Imagine this is the period before my birth. Just like there'll be an infinite period after my death in which I won't exist, and realizing that fills us with dismay, there was, of course, an infinite period before I came into existence. Well, if nonexistence is so bad and by the deprivation account it seems that we want to say that it is, shouldn't I be upset at the fact that there was this eternity before I was born? But, says Lucretius, that's silly, right? Nobody's upset about the fact that there was an eternity before they were born. In which case, it doesn't make any sense to be upset about the eternity after you die of nonexistence. Well, Lucretius doesn't offer this as a puzzle. Lucretius offers this as an argument that we should not be concerned about the fact that we're going to die. Most philosophers aren't willing to go with Lucretius all the way to the end of the bus, bus route. Most philosophers want to say there's got to be something wrong with that argument someplace. There's got to be some-- Well, what are the possibilities here? One possibility is indeed to just agree with him, right? Nothing bad about the eternity before I was born. So, nothing bad--of the eternity of nonexistence. So nothing bad about the eternity of nonexistence after I die. That's one possibility, to agree with Lucretius. Second possibility is to say, look, Lucretius, you're right. We really do need to treat these two eternities of nonexistence on a par. But we could turn it around. Instead of saying with Lucretius, nothing bad about this one, so nothing bad about this one, maybe we should say instead, something bad about the one after we die, and so something bad about the one before we were born. Maybe we should just stick to the deprivation account and not lose faith in it. The deprivation account says it's bad that there's this period after we die, because if only we weren't dead then, we would still be able to enjoy the good things in life. Maybe we should say, look, similarly then, when the deprivation account tells us it's bad that there's this period before we come into existence, when we don't exist. Because if only we had existed then, we'd be able to enjoy the good things in life. Maybe Lucretius was right, we have to treat both periods the same. But he's wrong in thinking we shouldn't think either period is bad. Maybe we should think both periods are bad. Well, that's a possibility. What other possibilities are there? Another possibility is to say, Lucretius, you're right, there are two periods of nonexistence, but there's a justification for treating them differently. They're asymmetrical in a way that makes sense from the point of view of what we should care about. Well, it's easy to say that. The puzzle--most philosophers want to take that last way out. They want to say there's something that explains why it makes sense, why it's reasonable to care about the eternity of nonexistence after my death, but where that doesn't apply to the eternity of nonexistence before my birth. And then the puzzle is to point to a difference that would justify that kind of rationally asymmetrical treatment of the two periods. It's easy to say it's okay, it's reasonable to treat them differently. The philosophical challenge is to point to something that explains or justifies that. Now, a very common response is to say something like this. Look, consider the period after my death. I'm no longer alive. I have lost my life. In contrast, the period before my birth, although I'm not alive, I have not lost my life. I have never yet been alive. And so, of course, you can't lose something you've never yet had. So what's worse, this answer suggests, about the period after death is the fact that death involves loss, whereas prenatal nonexistence does not involve loss. And so, the conclusion comes, and now we see why it's okay to care more about that one than this one, the one after death and the one before birth. Because the one after death involves loss, and the one before birth does not. Very, very common response, but I'm inclined to think that can't be an adequate answer. It's true, of course, that this period involves loss, because the very definition of "Loss" Is, you don't have something that at an earlier time you did have. So this period involves loss. But the period before birth does not involve loss, because although I don't have life, I haven't, previous to the period, had life, so I haven't lost anything. Of course, there's another thing that's true about this prenatal period, to wit, I don't have life and I'm going to get it. So I don't yet have something that's going to come in the future. That's not true about the post-life period. I've lost life. But it's not true of this period that I don't have life and I'm going to get it in the future. So this period involves loss. Interesting. In fact, we don't have a name for this other state, where you don't yet have something that you'll get later, but you don't yet have it. Let's call that, not loss, let's call it "Schmoss," Okay? So during this period, there's a loss of life, but no schmoss of life. And in this period, there's no loss of life, but there's a schmoss of life. And now we need to ask, as philosophers, why do we care more about loss of life than schmoss of life? What is it about the fact that we don't have something that we used to, that makes it worse than not having something that we're going to? It's easy to overlook the symmetry here, because we've got this nice word "Loss," and we don't have this word "Schmoss." But that's not really explaining anything, it's just pointing to the thing that needs explaining. Why do we care more about not having what once upon a time we did, than we care about not having what once upon a time we will? Well, there's some other proposals that we might make. A couple of them have actually been sketched in some of your reading. So for example, Tom Nagel , in his essay on death says, look, here's the difference. It's easy enough to imagine-- and indeed for there to actually be a possibility of-- my living longer. Suppose I die at the age of 80 and if I didn't die, then I'd continue living 90, 100, what have you. There it is. It's still me. When you imagine me with an earlier-- rather with living longer, you're imagining me living longer. To use the vocabulary that we introduced in thinking about some of Plato's arguments, we might say although -- suppose I die at age 80--that's a fact about me, it's a contingent fact about me. It's not a necessary fact about me that I died at 80. Suppose at 80 I get hit by a car. It's not a necessary truth about me that I got hit by a car. I could have not gotten hit by a car, and lived to the ripe old age of 90 or 100. When you die is not an essential feature of you, so it's easy for us to think about the possibility in which I live longer. But, says Nagel, when I try to imagine what would the alternative be, if I'm going to be upset about the prenatal nonexistence, we have to imagine my being born earlier. I was born in 1954. Should I be upset about the fact that I was born in 1954 instead of 1944? That's the analog of being upset about the fact that I die in whatever it is, 2044 instead of living to 2054. Nagel says, but look, when you try to think about the possibility in which instead of being born in 1954, I was born in 1944--and for the rest of you, you've got to plug in your own birthdates-- Nagel says you can't do it. The date of my death is a contingent fact about me. But the date of my birth is not a contingent fact about me. And by birth we don't really mean when I came out of the womb. That could be changed, perhaps by having been delivered prematurely, or through caesarean, or what have you. We really mean the time at which I come into existence. Let's suppose it's the time when the egg and the sperm join. That's not a contingent moment in my story. That's an essential moment in my life story. How could that be? We say, couldn't my parents have had sex earlier, 10 years earlier? Sure they could have. But remember, if they had had sex 10 years earlier, it would have been a different egg and a different sperm coming together, so it wouldn't be me. It would be some sibling of mine that, as it happens, never got born. But if, had they had sex 10 years earlier, some sibling would have been born. That's not me being born earlier. Different sperm, different egg makes for a different person. So you can't--you can say the words, "If only I'd been born earlier," but it's not actually metaphysically possible. Well, it's an intriguing suggestion, but I think it can't quite be right, or at the very least, it cannot be the complete story about how to answer Lucretius' puzzle. Suppose we've got a fertility clinic that has some sperm on hold, and has some eggs on hold, in the sperm bank, in the egg bank, what have you. And they keep them here frozen until they're ready to use them. And they thaw them out in whatever it is, 2020. And then the person's born. Of course, he could go back. He could look back and say, if only they had put my sperm and egg together 10 years earlier. That would still be me. After all, very same sperm, very same egg, makes for the very same person. So if only they had combined my sperm and egg 10 years earlier, I would have been born 10 years earlier. Well, so Nagel's wrong in saying it's not possible to imagine being born earlier. In at least some cases, it is. Yet, if we imagine somebody like this, somebody who's an offspring of this kind of fertility clinic, and we ask, would they be upset that they weren't born earlier? again, it still seems as though most people would say, "No, of course not." So the Nagel answer doesn't seem to me to be an adequate one. Well, there's another possible answer. This is Fred Feldman's answer, also in the one of the papers that you've read. Fred Feldman says-- Nagel's a contemporary philosopher, Fred Feldman's a contemporary philosopher. Feldman says, when I imagine... Suppose I get killed by the bus in 2044, and if I imagine if only I hadn't died then, what is it that we imagine? We imagine instead of living 80 years, living 90 or 95 or more. We imagine a longer life. But what is it that happens when I say, if only I'd been born earlier? Well, says Feldman, you don't actually imagine a longer life, you just shift the entire life and start it earlier. After all, suppose we just said--especially if I had asked you this question before setting all of this up-- but if only you'd been born in 1800. Nobody thinks, "Oh, if only I'd been born in 1800, I'd still be alive. I'd be 200 years old." You think, "Oh, if I'd been born in 1800, I would have died in 1860, 1870, 1880," Whatever it is. When we imagine being born earlier, we don't imagine a longer life. Nothing better about having a life earlier, according to the deprivation account. But when we imagine not dying when we actually die, we say, "If only I died in 2050 instead of 2040," it's not that we imagine having been born later. We don't shift the life forward. We imagine a longer life. So, Feldman says, no wonder, no surprise that you care about the nonexistence after death. Because when you imagine that being different, you imagine a longer life. But when you start thinking about the nonexistence before birth and you imagine that being different, you don't imagine more goods in life, you just imagine them taking place at a different time. Well, that's an interesting possibility, I suppose. It doesn't seem to me--again, that it's got to be--maybe it's part of the story, but it doesn't seem like it's going to be the complete story. Because we could imagine cases where the person just thinks, look, if only I'd been born earlier, I would have had a longer life. Let's suppose that next week astronomers discover the horrible fact that there's an asteroid that's about to land on the Earth and wipe out all life. So here it is, it's going to come on January 1, 2008. And there you are, at whatever your age is, 20 years old, 21 years old, on January-on December 31, 2008 thinking, I've only had 20 years of life. If only I'd been born earlier. If only, instead of being born, whenever it was, I'd been born 10 years earlier, I would have had 30 years of life instead of 20 years of life. That seems perfectly intelligible. So it does seem as though, if we put our head into it, we can get ourselves into thought experiments where we say, yeah, don't just shift the life, make it longer. But instead of making it longer in the post-death direction, make it longer in the pre-birth direction. Again, you can imagine somebody saying, "Yeah, and when we do that, we should feel the same." It doesn't really matter which direction it goes. So symmetry is the right answer after all. When I think about the asteroid example, I find myself thinking, huh, maybe symmetry is the right way to go here. Maybe Feldman's right, that normally we just shift instead of extending. But if I'm careful to extend, maybe that really is bad that I didn't get started sooner and have a longer life in that direction. Well, here's one other answer that's been proposed. This is by yet another contemporary philosopher, Derek Parfit. Parfit says, it's true that when I think about the nonexistence after I die, that's loss, whereas the nonexistence before I'm born, that's not loss, that's mere schmoss. And it's true that we need an explanation about why loss is worse than schmoss. But we can see that this is not an arbitrary preference on our part, because in fact, it's part of a quite general pattern we have of caring about the future in a way that we don't care about the past. This is a very deep fact about human caring. We are oriented towards the future and concerned about what happens in it, in a way that we're not oriented and concerned about what happened in the past. Parfit's got a very nice example to bring the point home. He says, imagine that you've got some condition, some medical condition that will kill you unless you have an operation. So fair enough, you're going to have the operation. This will allow you to live your life. Unfortunately, in order to perform the operation, they can't have you anesthetized. You have to be awake, perhaps in order to tell the surgeon "Yeah, that's where it hurts," Whatever it is. Sort of like when the dentist pokes and says, "Does this hurt? Does that hurt?" So you've got to be awake during the operation and it's a very painful operation. We can't give you pain killer, because then you won't be able to point out, does this hurt, does that hurt, and so forth and so on. Since we can't give you pain killer, all we can do is this. So, you'll be awake during this, basically being tortured. You'll be awake being tortured. It's still worth doing it, because this will cure the condition, so then you'll have a nice long life. Since we can't give you pain killers and we can't put you out, all we're going to do is, what we will do is this: After the operation is over, we'll give you this very powerful medication, which will give you short-term, sort of very localized, amnesia. You won't remember anything about the operation itself. So you won't have to at least to dwell upon these horrible memories of having been tortured. Those will be completely wiped out. Okay, so painful operation. You're awake during it. After the operation, you're given this thing that makes you forget whether you've had the operation, anything about the operation at all. And that the preceding 24 hours will be completely wiped out. So you're in the hospital and you wake up and you ask yourself, "Huh, have I had the operation yet or not?" Don't know, right? Because of course, if I haven't had it, no wonder I don't remember it, but if I have had it, I would have been given that temporary sort of localized amnesia. So of course I wouldn't know whether or not I've had it. So you ask the nurse, "Have I had the operation yet or not?" She says, "I don't know, we have a couple on the hall today who are, some of whom have had it and some of whom are scheduled to have it later today. I don't remember which one you are. Let me go look at your file. I'll come back and I'll tell you." So she wanders off. She's going to come back in a minute or two. And as you're waiting for her to come back, you ask yourself, what do you want the answer to be? Are you indifferent, or do you care whether you're one of the people who's already had it, or somebody who hasn't yet had it? Now, if you're like Parfit, and for that matter, like me, then you're going to say, of course I care. I want it to be the case that I'm one of the people who's already had the operation. I don't want to be one of the people who hasn't yet had the operation. You might say, how can that make any sense? Your life's going to have the operation sooner or later. At some point in your life history, that operation is going to have occurred. And so there's the same amount of pain and torture, regardless of whether you're one of the people that had it yesterday or one of the people that's going to have it tomorrow. But for all that, says Parfit, the fact of the matter is perfectly plain, that we do care. We want the pain to be in the past. We don't want the pain to be in the future. We care more about what's happening in the future than we care about what's happening in the past. That being the case, no surprise we care about the nonexistence in the future in a way we don't care about the nonexistence in the past. Well, that may be right as far as explanation goes, but we might still wonder whether or not it's any kind of justification. The fact that we've got this deep-seated asymmetrical attitude towards time doesn't in any way, as far as I can see, yet tell us whether or not that's a justified attitude. Maybe evolution built us to care about the future in a way that we don't care about the past and this shows up in lots of places, including Parfit's hospital case, including our attitude towards loss versus schmoss, so forth and so on But the fact that we've got this attitude doesn't yet show that it's a rational attitude. How could we show that it's a rational attitude? Well, maybe we'd have to start doing some heavy-duty metaphysics, if what we've been doing so far isn't yet heavy-duty enough. Maybe we need to talk about the difference between-- the metaphysical difference between the past and the future. The past is fixed, the future is open, the direction of time. Maybe somehow we could bring all these things in and explain why our attitudes towards time make sense. I'm not going to go there. All I want to say is it's not altogether obvious what the best answer to Lucretius' puzzle is. So when I say, as I have said-- and I'm going to say it many times over the course of the remaining weeks-- that the central thing that's bad about death is the fact that you're deprived of the good things in life, when I make use of the deprivation account, I don't mean to suggest everything is sweetness and light with regard to the deprivation account. I think there are some residual puzzles about how it could be that death is bad. And in particular, how it could be that the deprivation account puts its finger on what's bad about death. But for all that, it seems to me the right way to go. It seems to me that the deprivation account does put its finger on the central bad thing about death. Most centrally, what's bad about death is that when you're dead, you're not experiencing the good things in life. Death is bad for you because you don't have what life would bring you, if only you hadn't died. All right. If that's right, should we conclude, in fact, do we have to conclude-- if death is bad because of it's a deprivation, then if I wasn't dead, I wouldn't be deprived-- so doesn't it follow then that the best thing of all is never to die at all, to wit, immortality? If it's bad... Suppose I get hit by a truck next week, that's bad, because if only I hadn't gotten hit by a truck, I might have lived another 20, 30 years, whatever. I would have gotten the good things in life that would have been better for me. Ah, but when I die of whatever it is, some heart disease at age 80, that's bad maybe because if only I didn't have heart disease, I could have lived another 10, 15, 20 years, gotten more good things in life. If only I hadn't died at 100, I would have gotten more good things in life. If only I hadn't died at 500, I would have gotten more good things in life. Whenever it is I die, won't it always be true, if we accept the deprivation account, that if only I hadn't died then, I would have gotten more good things in life? And so whenever it is you die, death is bad for you. So the best thing for you would be never to die, immortality. Two questions really that we need to ask. One is... Does consistency, does logic, require somebody who accepts the deprivation account-- does consistency require that if you accept the deprivation account, you believe immortality's a good thing? Second question: Even if logic doesn't require that, is it true that immortality's a good thing? Let me start with the first one, because I think that's the easier one. Logic alone, logic plus the consistency requirement-- rather and the deprivation account-- logic alone doesn't require us to say immortality's a good thing. Why? Because strictly speaking, what the deprivation account says is, death is bad insofar as you're deprived of the good things in life by virtue of not existing. If only you hadn't gotten hit by that truck, you would have gone on to an exciting life in your career as a professional dancer. You would have had a family, or what have you. Whatever it is. You would have traveled around the world. Life would have given you a lot of great things and you get deprived of those great things, that's why it's bad that you got hit by the truck. That is to say, death is bad, when it's bad, by virtue of the fact that it deprives you of the good things in life. But suppose--we don't yet know whether this could actually happen, but here we're just talking about logical possibilities-- suppose that there's no more good things for life to give you. Then when you're deprived of life by death, you're not being deprived of any good things, and so it's not bad for you to be dead at that point. Death is only bad, according to the deprivation account, when there are good things that would have come your way. When, as we might put it, on balance, the life you would have had would have continued to be good for you. When that happens, then to lose that good bit of life, that's bad for you. But if it should turn out that what life would have had hereafter, instead of being good, would have been hellish, it's not bad for you to avoid that. It might actually be good for you to avoid it. So, even if we accept the deprivation account, we're not committed to the claim that death is always bad. We have to look and see, what would life actually hold out for us? Logic alone, plus the deprivation account, doesn't force us to say immortality would be a good thing. After all--this is really a crucial point to understand-- things that are good for you in limited quantities can become bad for you if you get more and more and more and more of them. Well, I love chocolate. So suppose somebody comes up to me with a box of Godiva chocolate, offers me a couple of chocolates. I say, "Wonderful! I love Godiva chocolate." And then they give me some more and some more. Twenty pieces of chocolate. Well, you know, by the time I got 20 pieces of chocolate, I'm not sure right now if I really want the 21st piece. But you keep giving me some more. Thirty pieces of chocolate, 40 pieces of chocolate, 100 pieces of chocolate. At some point--I've never actually had his much chocolate; I don't know what the point is, but at some point-- I'm going to say, you know, although the first 10, 20, 30 pieces of chocolate, those were good, but giving me the 21st piece of chocolate or the 50th piece of chocolate, no longer good. Logically, at least, it could happen. Logically, it could happen that although in quantities, small quantities, 50 years, 60 years, 100 years, life is good, at some point, maybe life would turn bad for us. Just like being force-fed more and more chocolate. And if it did turn bad for us, the deprivation account would allow us to say, oh, at that point, dying's not bad for you. Well, that's all that logic tells us. Logic simply tells us we don't have to believe immortality's a good thing. But for all that, it could still be a good thing. So that's question number two. Let's ask, what should we think about the prospect of living forever? Would it, in fact, be better and better and better? Somebody dies at age 10 by some horrible disease, better if they'd made it up to 40. Somebody dies at age 40, better if they'd made it up to 80. Somebody dies at age 80, better if they'd made it to 100, 120. Is it true that life would get better and better and better, the longer it is? Now, in asking this question, we have to be careful to be clear about what exactly we're imagining. Here's one way to try to imagine that story. Imagine that life is sort of the way it works now, with the kinds of changes that bodies undergo as they get older. But instead of those changes basically killing you at 80, 90, or 100, they don't. You get more and more of those changes, but they never actually kill you. This is the sort of thought experiment that Jonathan Swift undertakes in the passage from Gulliver's Travels that I've had you look at. He imagines Gulliver coming to a country where a subset of the people live forever, immortals. And at first, Gulliver says, "Oh, isn't this wonderful?" But he forgot to think about the fact that if the kinds of changes that we undergo continue to accumulate, then you're getting older. Not just older, but weaker, in more and more discomfort, senility sets in with a vengeance, until eventually you've got these creatures that live forever, but their mind is gone, and they're sort of in pain and they can't do anything because their body's utterly infirm and diseased and sick. That's not a wonderful thing to have. If immortality was like that, says Swift, that would be horrible. For an immortality like that, death would be a blessing. And Montaigne, in the essay that I've had you look at, says indeed, death is a blessing, because it puts an end to the pain and suffering and misery that afflict us in our old age. Well, all of that seems right, but I suppose we'd be forgiven for thinking, look, when we wanted to be immortal, we didn't want this kind of life going on and on and on with the same trajectory, the same downward trajectory. We sort of wanted to live forever, hail and hearty and healthy. So even if the real world wouldn't allow us that, let's just ask science fictiony whether or not in fact living forever would be good. Isn't it at least true that in principle, living forever could be good? You've got to imagine changing some of the facts about what it would be like to live forever. So instead of asking the question, the question I started with, would it be good to live forever? -- If you're not careful, this is going to be like one of those horror stories, right? Where you've got a couple of wishes and you aren't careful about how exactly you state the wish. And so you get what you want, but it ends up being a nightmare, right? If you just tell the fairy who gives you three wishes, "I want to live forever," and you forgot to say "And be sure to keep me healthy," well, that's going to be a nightmare. That's what Swift told us. So let's be careful. Let's throw in health and anything else you want. Throw in enough money to make sure you're not poor for eternity. Wouldn't that be horrible, to be healthy but impoverished forever? Throw in whatever you want. All we need to ask at that this point is, is there any way at all to imagine immortality, where immortality of that sort would be a good thing? Is there any way to imagine existing forever where that would be good for you, forever? Now, it's very tempting at this point to say, look, of course. Nothing could be easier. Just imagine being in heaven forever, right? You're done, right? You've got heavenly bliss. Isn't this incredible? Wouldn't we all love to be in heaven forever? The trouble is, we were a little bit vague about what exactly life is like in heaven. It's a striking fact that even those religions that promise us an eternity in heaven are rather shy on the details. Why? Because, one might worry, if you actually tried to fill in the details, this wonderful, eternal existence ends up not seeming so wonderful after all. So imagine that what's going to happen is that we all become angels and we're going to spend eternity singing psalms. Now, I like psalms and I actually enjoy rather singing psalms at services. On Saturday mornings, I sing psalms in Hebrew and I rather enjoy it. But if you ask me: What about the possibility of an eternity of doing that? That doesn't really seem so desirable. Bedazzled, not the remake. I haven't seen the remake, but the original. In the original, there's a human character who hooks up with the devil. He meets the devil and he asks the devil, "So why did you rebel against God?" The devil says, "Well, I'll show you. You sit here on the--" Whatever it was, the mailbox, I think it was. "I'll sit up here on the mailbox," The devil says. "And you dance around me and say, oh, praise the lord, aren't you wonderful? You're so magnificent. You're so glorious.'" And the human does this for a while and he says, "This has gotten really boring. Can't we switch?" And the devil says, "That's exactly what I said." Now, when you try to imagine heaven singing psalms for eternity, that doesn't seem so attractive. All right, so don't imagine heaven singing psalms for eternity. Just imagine something else. But what? Imagine what? This is the thought experiment that I invite you to participate in. What kind of life can you imagine, such that having that life forever would be good? Not just for another 10 years, not just for another 100 years, not just for another 1,000 years, or million years, or a billion years. Remember, eternity is a very, very long time. Forever goes on forever. Can you describe an existence that you would want to be stuck with forever? Now, it's precisely at this point that Bernard Williams, in another one of the papers I had you take a look at-- Bernard Williams says no. No kind of life would be one that would be desirable and attractive forever. No kind of life at all. In short, says Williams, every life would eventually become tedious and worse, excruciatingly painful. Every kind of life is a life you would eventually want to be rid of. Immortality, far from being a wonderful thing, would be a horrible thing. Suppose, for the moment, that we were to agree with Williams. What then should we say? We might say--look, at least when we're being careful, if we agree that immortality would be bad, we can't say then that death, per se, is bad. The very fact that I am going to die turns out not to be a bad thing, because after all, the only alternative to dying is immortality. And if immortality would be a bad thing, then death is not a bad thing. Death is a good thing. We might say, if we accept Williams' thought, the fact of our mortality is good rather than bad, if immortality would eventually be bad. Now of course, crucial to notice that even if we say this, that doesn't mean that when you get hit by a car tomorrow, that that's good. You don't have to say that. You can still say it's a bad thing that I got hit by a car tomorrow, because after all, if I hadn't gotten hit by a car tomorrow, it's not as though I would have been condemned to immortality, I just would have lived another 10 or 20 or 30 years. And those years would have been good ones for me. And maybe even when I die-- let's suppose I live to the ripe old age of 100-- when I die at 100, I could perhaps still say, it's a bad thing for me that I die at the age of 100. Because if I hadn't died now, I might have lived another 10, 20, 30 years and still enjoyed things in life, enjoyed playing with my great grandchildren, whatever it is. To say that immortality is bad is not to say it's a good thing that we die when we do. You can still believe consistency--consistently-- that we die too soon. Even if in principle, eventually, sooner or later, death would no longer be bad, it could be that it comes too soon for all of us. Still, the question we want to ask is, is there any way even to imagine an immortal life that would be worth having? In principle, could immortality be a good thing? Or, is Williams right, that no, even in principle, go as fantastic and science fictiony as you want, in principle an immortal life could not be desirable? So until next time, I invite you to think that question through. If you're trapped into the prospect of immortality, what would the best kind of immortal life be like? 



 Chapter 18: 不朽性（二）：生命的价值（一）


We've been talking about the question as to whether or not it would be desirable to live forever, whether immortality would actually be a good thing, as most of us normally presume, or whether in fact, as Bernard Williams argues, it would be undesirable. The question we turned to was, just let your imagination run free. Instead of asking what would it be like to continue living a longer kind of trajectory that humans have in the real world where you just get sicker and more and more frail and incapacitated, ask yourself not whether immortality of that sort would be valuable, but is it even so much as possible to describe a life that you would want to live forever? That's the question I left you with last time. I think I already tipped my cards on this matter. I'm inclined to agree with Williams. I think that no matter how we try to fill in the blank, it's a very long blank. The crucial point here for us is that immortality means not just living a very long time or even an extraordinarily long time, but literally living forever. I think it's very difficult, indeed I think it's impossible, to think of anything you'd want to do forever. I have a friend who once claimed to me that he wanted to live forever so that he could have Thai food every day for the rest of, well, the rest of eternity. I like Thai food just fine, but the prospect of having Thai food day after day after day after day for thousands, millions, billions, trillions of years no longer seems an attractive proposal. It seems like it becomes some kind of a nightmare. And the same way that I indicated previously that although I like chocolate-- I love chocolate-- the prospect of having to eat more and more and more and more and more chocolate, eventually the idea becomes a sickening one. Think of any activity. Some of you may enjoy doing crossword puzzles, and perhaps doing crossword puzzles a couple hours a day is enjoyable. But imagine doing crossword puzzles every day for 10 years, 1,000 years, a million years, a billion years, a trillion years. Eventually, presumably, so it seems to me, you'd end up saying, "I'm really tired of crossword puzzles." Sure, there'd be some new particular puzzle you hadn't seen before, but you'd sort of step up a level and say, "Although I haven't seen this particular one before, I've seen crossword puzzles before. There's really nothing new under the sun here. The fact that I haven't seen this particular combination of words isn't enough to make it interesting." Well, crossword puzzles aren't a very deep subject, and we might wonder whether or not we would do better if we were engaged in something more mentally challenging than that. This may indicate something unusual about me, but I rather like math. And the prospect of having a lot of time to pursue math problems of a richer and deeper sort seems fairly attractive. Yet even there, when I imagine an eternity of thinking about math-- or for that matter, an eternity of thinking about philosophy, which I obviously like even more than math-- the prospect seems an unattractive one. I can't think of any activity I'd want to do forever. Now, of course, that's a bit of a cheat because the claim isn't to spend eternity doing math problems and nothing but math problems. Right now, with our 50, 80, 100 years, we don't fill our day doing only one kind of activity. We fill our day with a mixture of activities. But it doesn't really help having Thai food for dinner and Chinese for lunch. Or perhaps Chinese on Monday, Wednesdays, and Fridays and Thai on Saturdays and Sundays and spending two hours in the afternoon doing math and three hours in the morning doing philosophy. That sounds like a pretty pleasant life. But again, if you think of the possibility of doing that for all eternity and never getting away from it, never being free from it, the positive dream of immortality, I think, becomes a nightmare. Well again, maybe I'm not just being creative enough in my imagination. Different former colleague of mine once talked about the prospect of having a kind of heavenly vision of the divine. Maybe that would be desirable forever. And she described it as, think of what it's like to have a really great conversation with a friend that you wish would never end, except God's this infinitely rich friend and so the conversation ends up seeming desirable forever. Well again, I can say the words, but when I try to imagine that possibility and take it seriously, at least speaking personally, it doesn't--it doesn't hold up. No friend that I've ever talked with is one that I actually would want to spend eternity talking to. And it's of course possible to say, well, just imagine a friend that you would want to talk through all eternity to. But the whole point is, I can't imagine what that would be like. When I do my best to imagine some kind of existence that would be desirable or attractive forever, it just doesn't work. It becomes a nightmare. Well again, maybe what we need to do is not so much just imagine the same cycling going through week after week after week, but whole careers. Maybe you could spend 50 or 100 years pursuing philosophy as your career. And then 50 or 100 years pursuing math as your career. And 50 or 100 years traveling around the world. And 50 or 100 years being an artist and working on your water colors, or whatever it is. Well, that certainly seems like we could probably get more time out of that. But again, the crucial point to remember is that forever is literally forever. There's no life that I'm able to imagine for myself that's one that I would want to take on forever. Well, you might say surely there could be creatures that would want to live forever, that would enjoy an eternal existence. And I think that's probably right. So scientists have learned how to do the following. There are certain-- you can take a rat and put an electrode in his brain. If you put the electrode in just the right place, then when the electrode gets turned on, it stimulates the pleasure center in the rat's brain and it gets a little burst of pleasure, a pretty intense burst of pleasure. And in fact, you can take the wire, the electrode, and hook it up to a lever and teach the rat how to push the lever and give itself a little burst of pleasure. Now, what happens to rats when you do this? Well, maybe unsurprisingly, what they do is, they keep pressing the lever. Indeed, they press the lever and they'll stop eating, they're no longer interested in sex. They basically just give themselves this little orgasmic burst of pleasure-- well, until they die. Now well, of course, it's too bad the rat dies, but if we imagine the rat not being mortal-- perhaps you've got it on IV so it's getting its nutrients that way-- then perhaps it's easy to imagine the rat simply pressing the lever forever, getting this intense burst of pleasure and being content to do that for all eternity. So if it's so easy to imagine that for the rat, why not for us? Why not just put our own orgasmatron hat on with a little-- not rat lever, but now human lever-- with the electrodes stimulating our own brains so that we get this intense burst of pleasure? And just imagine this intense burst of pleasure going on forever. What could be more desirable than that? Except, when I think about that, and I invite you to think about that, I don't actually find that an especially attractive prospect. Mind you, it's not that I think we couldn't be stimulated to get pleasure forever. It's that there's something that distinguishes humans from rats. When I--No doubt I would enjoy it. And no doubt you would enjoy it for a very long time. But I imagine that after a period, there'd be this-- Well, humans have this ability to look down on their experiences, or step back from their experiences, and assess them. Even now, as I'm sitting here lecturing to you, part of me, because of this very question that I'm raising, is thinking about how's the lecture going, and am I going to get through what I need to get through, and so forth and so on. We can reflect on our first order or base level experiences. Now, imagine then that you're in the pleasure-making machine. After a while, part of you is going to start asking, "Huh, say, it feels the same as it was yesterday, and the day before that and the day before that. I imagine this is how it's going to feel tomorrow, and the day after that and the day after that." And eventually this question would start, "Is this really all there is to life, just simple pleasure like this?" The thing about being human is, unlike the rat, you're not just going to stay caught up in the moment. You're going to take this meta-level or higher level standpoint, look down at the pleasure and wonder, "Is this all that there is to life?" And I think eventually that question would gnaw at you and sour and override the pleasure. Eventually, you'd become horrified that you were, in effect, stuck in this rat-like existence. Of course, the human part of you is able to say there's more to you than this rat-like existence. But precisely, the human part of you is going to rebel at the unending parade of simple rat-like pleasures. So, I don't think an eternity like that would be such a good thing. Maybe it would be for a rat, but not for a human. Of course, we could perhaps deal with that problem by making us more rat-like in terms of our thinking processes. Perhaps the right kind of lobotomy would do the trick. I don't actually know exactly what it would take, but you just cut off and snip the relevant nerve endings so that we're no longer able to engage in that higher order thinking. No longer able to raise the question, "Is this all there is?" No longer able to step back from the first order pleasure. No doubt, you can turn us into creatures like rats in that way. And then, I presume, we would continue to enjoy it forever. But the question isn't really, is there something you could do to a human being so that he'd be happy, or at least enjoying himself, forever? It's rather, do you, sitting here now, thinking about that kind of life, do you want that for yourself? Do you want to be lobotomized where that's the only way, at least that we've got so far, to imagine a life that you would enjoy forever. Sure. Screw me up enough and maybe I'd enjoy being alive forever. But that doesn't mean that I now want that for myself. That doesn't seem to me to be some gift you've given me. That seems to me to be some horrible penalty you've imposed on me, that you've reduced me from being a human being, able to engage in the full range of reflection, and simply turned me into something like a rat. So again, when the question is posed, "Is there a kind of life that I or you would want to live forever?" the question I'm asking is a question to you, here, now. Is there a kind of life that you would want to live forever? Not that, if we altered you, that that product would want to have forever. I can't see how to do it. Well look, there's one other possibility. Instead of imagining lobotomizing us, turning us into rats, suppose we just say, look, the problem is really this. The problem, of course, is boredom. The problem is tedium. The problem is that you get tired of doing math after a while, 100 years, 1,000 years, a million years, whatever it is. You say, "Yeah, here's a math problem I haven't solved before, but so what? I've just done so much math, it holds no appeal to me before." Or, you cycle through all the great art museums in the world and you say, "Yeah, I've seen these Picassos. I've seen these Rembrandts before. I've gotten what there is to get out of them. Isn't there anything new?" And the problem is no, no. We've--even if there's literally new things, they're not the new kinds of things that can still engage us afresh. Well, what's the solution to that? The solution to that might be a kind of amnesia, a kind of progressive lack of memory. So here I am, 100 years, 1,000 years, around 500,000 years, whatever it may be. You're getting pretty bored with life. But if we now introduce some progressive memory, so--a progressive memory loss-- so that I no longer remember what I did 100,000 years earlier. And by the time I'm a million, I no longer remember what I was doing when I was a lad of 500,000. And by the time I'm a million and a half, I no longer remember what was happening in oh, back, back. I know I was alive, perhaps. Or maybe I don't even remember that I was alive. I sort of remember the last 10-20,000 years and that's it. And while we're at it, why don't we have overhauling of your interests and desires, your tastes? So your tastes in music evolve over thousands of years. And your tastes in art or literature. Or, you like math now but then you lose your taste in math, and you become the kind of person perhaps who's interested in Chinese poetry, whatever it is. Wouldn't that do it? If we had this sort of progressive all-radical alteration, not just minimal alteration, but radical alterations of my memory, my beliefs, my desires, my tastes. Couldn't that be a kind of existence that would be forever enjoyable and yet it wouldn't be a rat-like existence? I'd be engaged in studying Chinese poetry. I'd be engaged in doing math. I'd be engaged in studying astronomy, what have you. That's far better than the rat's existence. And yet, at no point do I become bored, because, roughly, I'm so different from period to period to period. Well, I think actually, you probably could tell a story where that was true, especially if we throw in enough doses of memory loss. But this case should remind you of something, because this case is one that we've actually discussed before under the label of "Methuselah." Methuselah, remember, when we talked about personal identity, we imagined somebody -much shorter-lived at that time. I think it was several hundred years, a hundred years old, 200 years old, 300 years old, 600, 700, 800, 900 years old. By the time Methuselah was 900 years old, he no longer remembered anything about his childhood. What I found when I thought about the Methuselah case was, even though it was me at age 800, the same person as the one who's standing here in front of you now, it didn't really matter. I said, "So what?" When I thought about what I wanted in survival, it wasn't enough that there be somebody in the distant future that be me. That wasn't good enough. It had to be somebody with a similar enough personality. You tell me, "Oh there's going to be somebody alive. It'll be you, but it'll be completely unlike you. Different tastes, no memories of having taught philosophy and so forth." I say, that's all rather interesting from a metaphysical point of view, but speaking personally, I don't really care. It's of no interest to me to survive, and merely saying the mantra, "Oh, but it's me" doesn't make it more desirable to me. What I want isn't merely for somebody to be me. I want them to be sufficiently like me. And the problem with the Methuselah case was, go far enough out, it's no longer sufficiently like me. So I don't really care that there'll be somebody out there who's still me, if they're so unlike me now. But that's, after all, what we've just described, in imagining the cycling with the memory loss. Yeah, there'll be somebody around 100,000 years from now, 500,000 years from now, and maybe they'll be me. I don't care. It doesn't give me what I want when I want to survive. So perhaps we should put the point in the form of a dilemma. Could immortality be something worth having forever? Well, on the one hand, if we make it be me and similar to me, boredom's going to set in. The only way to avoid that is to lobotomize me, and that's not desirable. If we make--If we solve the problem of boredom setting in with progressive memory loss and radical personality changes, maybe boredom won't set in, but it's not anything that I especially want for myself. It just doesn't matter to me that it's me, anymore than it would matter to me if they just tell me, "Oh, there'll be somebody else around there who will like Chinese poetry." So, is there a way of living forever that's attractive to me? I can't think of what it would look like. So, I agree with Bernard Williams when he says immortality wouldn't be desirable. It would actually be a nightmare, something you would long to free yourself from. Now, having said that, of course, that doesn't in any way mean that it's a good thing that we die when we do at 50 or 80 or 100. From the fact that after 100,000 years or a million years or whatever it is, eventually life would grow tiresome, that hardly shows that life has grown tiresome after 50 years or 80 years or 100. I don't believe we'll-- I'll--come close to scratching the surface of what I would enjoy doing, by the time I've died. And I imagine the same thing is true for you. So perhaps the best form of life would be not immortality; I think that would be not particularly desirable. And not what we've got now, where you live after a mere drop of 50 or 80 or 100 years. But rather, the best thing I suppose would be to be able to live as long as you wanted. This is the sort of thing that Julian Barnes basically imagines in the chapter "The Dream" That I had you take a look at. Barnes envisions heaven as a situation which you can stick around doing what you want to do for as long as you want to do it. But Barnes says, eventually you'll have enough. And once you've had enough, you can put an end to it. Still--the fact that we can put an end to it, that's the point we've already been flagging, that immortality would not be so good. But the new thought here is what would be good would be being able to live until you were satisfied, until you'd gotten what goods there were to get out of life. What all this suggests, then, and this is a point that I really made before, is that the best understanding of the deprivation account doesn't say that what's bad is the mere fact that we're going to die. If I'm right in thinking immortality would be undesirable, then the fact that we're going to die is good, because it guarantees that we won't be immortal, which would be a nightmare, an unending nightmare. Still, even though it's not a bad thing that we will die, it could still be a bad thing that we die when we do. It could still be the case that we die too soon. According to the deprivaton account, death is bad, when it's bad, because of the fact that it deprives us of the good things in life, insofar as we would have continued to get good things in life. But if life would no longer have anything good to offer you, if what you then would have had would have been something negative instead of something positive, then at that point, dying wouldn't actually be a bad thing. It would be a good thing. Death is bad insofar as it deprives you of a chunk of life that would have been good. Insofar as it deprives you of a future that would have been bad, then death's not actually bad, it's actually good. Now, in stating this view this way, I'm obviously presupposing that we can make these kinds of, at least, overall judgments in terms of the quality of your life, how well off you are. Is life giving you good things, or is life giving you bad things? Is it worth continuing to live, or is it not worth continuing to live? So, I want to turn to that topic and spend oh, probably the better part of a lecture or so. The rest of today and some of next time talking about the question of, well, what is it for a life to go well? How do we assess what makes a life--a good life versus a bad life? And I don't mean morally good life. I mean, good for the person whose life it is. A life that you think, "I'm benefiting from having this life." What are the ingredients or constituents or elements of a good life versus a bad life? And of course, since it's not just black and white, good life or bad life, but various shades of gray, better lives and worse lives, what's the yardstick by virtue of which we measure better and worse lives? What goes into a good life? Now, in thinking about this question, this is--you might think of the topic as the nature of wellbeing. And like all the other topics we've talked about in this class, it's a complicated subject, about which one could spend a great deal of time. All we're going to do here is really just, once again, scratch the surface. But the very first point that needs to be made, I think, is this. If you start listing all the things worth having in life, it might seem as though you couldn't possibly come to any general organizing principles. Think about it. What's worth having? Well yeah, jobs are worth having. Money's worth having. Sex is worth having. Chocolate's worth having. Ice cream's worth having. Air conditioners are worth having. What are some of the things worth avoiding? Well, being blind is worth avoiding. Being mugged is worth avoiding. Diarrhea is worth avoiding. Pain's worth avoiding. Getting unemployed is worth avoiding. War is worth avoiding. What kind of systematicity could we possibly bring to all of this? Well, the crucial, I think, first distinction is this. We need to separate between those things that are good because of what they lead to. That is, more strictly, only because of what they lead to. And those things that are valuable for their own sake or in their own right. Take something like a job. A job's worth having. Why is a job worth having? Well, a job's worth having because, well, among other things, it gives you money. All right. Money's worth having. All right. Why is money worth having? Well, money's worth having because, among other things, you can buy ice cream with it. All right. Why is ice cream worth having? Well, ice cream's worth having because when I eat ice cream it gives me this pleasurable sensation. All right. Why is the pleasurable sensation worth having? At this point, we get a different kind of answer. At this point, we say something like, pleasure is worth having for its own sake. The other things were valuable as a means, ultimately to pleasure. But pleasure is worth having for its own sake. The things that are valuable as a means we can say are instrumentally valuable. The things that are worth having for their own sake, philosophers call intrinsically valuable. If we look back at that long, open-ended list of things that were good or bad, we'll find that most of the things on that list are instrumentally good. They're good because of what they lead to. Or, for that matter, instrumentally bad. Why is disease bad? Well, among other things, it means perhaps that you can't enjoy yourself. So it deprives you of pleasure. Or perhaps it means because you're sick, you can't hold your job down. If you can't hold your job down, you can't get the money and so forth and so on. Ultimately, most of the negative things on that list were instrumentally bad. Most of the good things on that list were instrumentally good. If we want to get anyplace on the question about the nature of the good life, what we need to focus on is not the instrumental goods and bads, but rather the intrinsic goods and bads. You've got to ask yourself, "What's worth having for its own sake? What's worth having in and of itself?" Well, one natural suggestion is that pleasure is worth having for its own sake and pain is probably worth avoiding for its own sake. So pain's probably intrinsically bad; pleasure is intrinsically good. Notice by the by that logically speaking, there is nothing that stops the very same thing from being both. And actually you can get other weird combinations. You go to the dentist and he pokes you. He says, "Does this hurt? Does that hurt?" in order to try to figure out where there's gum disease. And the pain that he causes is intrinsically bad. In and of itself it's bad. Yet, for all that, it's being useful there. It's providing a means of deciding where the gum has decayed. And that allows the dentist to improve your gums, which avoids more pain down the road. So the pain you're suffering now is actually instrumentally valuable, useful as a means, even though it's intrinsically bad. Similarly, when I work, I enjoy myself. And so the pleasure I'm getting then is intrinsically good. But it's also instrumentally good. The fact that I'm enjoying myself makes it easier for me to work harder. Perhaps I'm more productive, I do better at my job. So the pleasure is both intrinsically valuable and instrumentally valuable. So there's no claiming that things have to be one or the other, but not both. Still, in trying to get clear about the nature of wellbeing, the crucial thing to do is to focus not on the question about instrumental value, but rather to focus on the question of intrinsic value. What things are worth having for their own sake, whether or not those things also have instrumental value, or what have you? What things are worth having for their own sake and what things are worth avoiding for their own sake? Well, in giving these examples, I've already indicated at least two things that belong on the list. It seems pretty plausible to think pleasure is intrinsically good. One thing, maybe not the only thing, but at least one thing, that goes into a life worth having is enjoying it, is pleasure. And one thing that seems intrinsically bad, one thing that seems to reduce the value of a life, is pain. Most of us agree then, pleasure is intrinsically valuable; pain is intrinsically negative, unvaluable, has anti-value. Well, suppose we make for, the moment, the bold conjecture, the philosophical claim, that not only is pleasure and the absence of pain, not only is pleasure one good thing and pain one bad thing. Suppose that's the entire list. Suppose we conjecture that the only thing intrinsically valuable is pleasure and the only thing intrinsically bad is pain. That view is called hedonism. So hedonism is a view that many people are attracted to, perhaps some of you believe. It's got a very simple theory of the nature of wellbeing. Being well off is a matter of experiencing pleasure and avoiding or minimizing the experience of pain. That's hedonism. A little later we'll turn to the question of, well, if hedonism is not the right story, what else belongs on the list, or is it the right story? We'll turn to that question a little bit later. But notice that if we've got hedonism or, for that matter as we'll see, some other theories of wellbeing, if we've got hedonism, we're able to make the kinds of evaluations that I was helping myself to when I started talking a few minutes ago about well, you know, if what life would hold for you is bad overall, then you're better off dying and so forth. What's going on when we make those judgments? Well, the hedonist offers us a very simple straightforward answer. In deciding whether what life holds for you is worth having, better than nothing, you, roughly speaking, add up all the good times and subtract all the bad times and see whether the net balance is positive or negative. Add up all the pleasures, subtract all the pains. If the balance is positive, your life is worth living. And the more positive the balance, the bigger the number, the more your life is worth living. If the balance is negative though, think about what that would mean. If the balance was negative, you're saying your future holds more pain overall than pleasure. And that's a negative. You'd be better off, well, you'd be better off dead, right? Because if you were dead, you'd have neither pleasure nor pain. That's going to presumably be given-- mathematically if we gave it a number, we'd slap a zero on that. No positive number, no negative number. That's a zero. Obviously, if the balance of pleasure over pain is positive, that's better than zero. But if the balance of pain over pleasure-- If there's more pain than pleasure so that the balance is negative, that's worse than zero. That's a life not worth having. That's what the hedonist says. Now, there's different ways of working out the details of the hedonist view. It's not, after all, as though all pleasures count equally or all pains count equally. The pain of stubbing your toe obviously doesn't count for nearly as much as the pain of a migraine, which doesn't count nearly as the pain of being tortured. And so we might need to work out various, more complicated, formulas here, where we multiply the pain times its duration and take into account its intensity, get the sheer quantity of pain that way. And similarly, pleasures can be longer lasting, or more intense. You can imagine how some of those details might go, and then some of the questions get rather tricky. But for our purposes, we don't really need to worry about the details. The thought is, roughly, weigh up the pleasures and pains in some appropriate way. Add up the pleasures. Add up the pains. See whether the grand total of pleasures is greater than the grand totals of pain. The more positive the number, the better your life. Now, armed with an approach like this, we can do more than just evaluate entire lives. Well, one thing we can do is just that. We can evaluate entire lives. There you are at the pearly gates and you look back on your life and you could, in principle, add up all the pleasures, add up all the pains, subtract the pains from the pleasures and ask yourself, "How good a life did I have? How well off was I, having lived that life?" And perhaps then you could imagine alternative lives. If only I had chosen to become a doctor, instead of having chosen to become a lawyer. How much better off or worse off would I have been? Or if I decided to become an artist or a scholar or a beach bum or a farmer, how much better off or worse off would I have been? How much greater or smaller would the number go? Despite my talking about numbers, of course, there's no particular assumption that we can really give precise numbers to this. And we certainly don't think that in fact most of us are in the position to actually crank out any kind of accurate number. Most of us don't know enough to know with a high degree of accuracy how things would have gone had I decided to become a farmer instead of a philosopher. Still, the hedonist isn't saying from a practical point of view we can necessarily do this. But in theory, in principle, this is what we're wondering about when we face choices. We can ask ourselves, "What would our life look like? Would it be better or worse?" And the yardstick that we're at least doing our best to apply is one of measuring up the pleasure and subtracting the pain. And of course, the hedonist will also hasten to point out that just because we can't do this perfectly or infallibly, that doesn't mean we can't make educated guesses, right? You're trying to decide should you go to Yale for college or should you go to Ohio State or Harvard or wherever else you got into, and you ask yourself, well, you try to project your future and you ask, "Where do I think I'd be better off? Which of these branches that are available to me, the branches of my life story, which is the one in which the future from here on out holds more pleasure and holds less pain?" That's how the hedonist says we should think about it. And notice by the by, that when we make choices about our future, from the hedonist point of view, at least, there's no particular need to dwell a whole lot on the past, because what's done is done. You're not going to alter how much pleasur you enjoyed previously, how much suffering you've undergone previously. What's open is the future. And so we're able to evaluate not just lives as a whole, looking back at the pearly gate. We're able to evaluate lives from here on out. Which of the various futures that are open to me are likely to give me the better life, leave me better off, measured in terms of pleasure or pain? And we do our best, however good or bad that may be. We do our best to make such comparative evaluations. And of course, we can do more than just evaluate the entire rest of my life. We can evaluate the next year or the next six months or, for that matter, just this evening. I can talk about, well, what should I do tonight? Should I stay home and work on my paper? Should I go to the party? Where will I be better off tonight? Well, I'll probably enjoy myself more at the party than I will working on the paper. And the paper's not due for a while and so forth. We make evaluations not just of entire lives, but of chunks of lives. All right. That's what we can do if we accept hedonism. But haven't yet asked, should we accept hedonism? Now, it will not come as news to me if I were to learn that several of you, maybe even many of you, in this class accept hedonism. It's a very popular view. Not just among philosophers where it's a view that's been around as long as there's been philosophy, but among people in the street. It's a very tempting view to think, what makes life worth having and the only thing worth having for its own sake, is having pleasure and avoiding pain. But for all that, despite the popularity of that view, I'm inclined to think it must be wrong. It's not that I think pleasure isn't good and pain isn't bad. Where hedonism goes wrong is when they say it's the only thing that matters. I'm inclined to think there's more to the best kind of life than just having pleasure and avoiding pain. Now, I already revealed that, when I was talking about the rat lever machine. I said, hook me up to that machine and I'll enjoy myself. But I don't want that for myself. Why? Because there's more to life than just pleasure and the absence of pain, or so it seems to me. Still, we might say, but the rat lever is not the only kind of pleasures there are. There's all these pleasures of experiencing art and seeing a beautiful sunset. And I don't know about you, but at least when I imagine the rat lever thing, it's a sort of simple, undifferentiated pleasure. So, that really won't do the trick in giving us the best quality pleasures of the kinds that humans most crave-- the pleasures of friendship and discussion and sexual intimacy. These pleasures the rat lever machine wasn't giving us. So couldn't hedonism still be true? Couldn't it still be the case that as long as we take into account the importance of getting the right kinds of pleasures, then really pleasure is what it's all about and all that it's about? No, I think that's still not right. But indeed, we'll need to move to something fancier than the rat lever machine. Here, the relevant thought experiment was suggested by Robert Nozick, a philosopher who died a few years ago, taught for many years at Harvard. Nozick invited us to imagine an experience machine. So, suppose that the scientists have discovered a way not just to stimulate the particular little pleasure center of the brain, but basically to--give you basically, completely realistic virtual reality. So that when you are hooked up to the machine, it seems to you exactly the same on the inside as it would seem to you if you really were-- and now fill in the blank. You could have the identical experience of climbing Mount Everest, let's say, so that you'll feel the wind bracing you. Of course, you won't really feel any wind. Strictly speaking, that's not true, because you're not up on Mount Everest. There is no wind. What's really going on is you're floating in the psychologist's tank in their lab with the electrodes hooked up your brain. But you don't know that you are floating in the tank. Hooked up to the machine, you believe you are climbing Mount Everest. You feel the thrill of having made it to the top and the wind bracingly striking your chin and you feel the satisfaction and you've got the memories of having almost died when the rope broke before. It's not like being at the IMAX. The crucial point, when you're at the IMAX is, although it's very realistic, part of you is aware that you're just in the theatre. But on the experience machine, you don't know you're just in the lab. When you're on the experience machine, you've got-- your brain is being stimulated in such a way that you've got the identical experience on the inside to what it would feel like if you really were doing these things. So, imagine a life on the experience machine. Imagine plugging in the tape. Says something about how old this example is that we talk about plugging in the tapes. Imagine plugging in the DVD, or whatever it is, with all of the best possible experiences. Whatever you think those are. Here, you might imagine different people disagreeing about-- oh, but throw in something-- but if what you want to do is write the great American novel, then you've got the experience of staying up late at night not knowing how to make the plot work out, crushing pieces of paper and throwing them away. Crushing your computer, or whatever it is that you do as you write the great American novel. Or you want to be finding the cure for cancer. So you've got exactly the experience you would have if you were working in your lab having the brilliant breakthrough when you finally realize what the combination is that would make the right antibody, whatever it is. Or if you want to be observing all the most beautiful sunsets and the most exotic locales, you've got exactly the experience you would have if you were doing all these things. That's life on the experience machine. You're not doing any of it. You're floating in the lab. But the experiences are identical. Now, ask yourself then, would you want to spend your life hooked up to the experience machine? Ask yourself, how would you feel if you discovered now that you have been living your life hooked up to an experience machine? Now, I've got to make a footnote here. This perfectly glorious philosophical example has been ruined in recent years by the movie The Matrix. Because whenever I tell this story now, people start saying, "Oh, well the evil machines are busy using your body as a battery" or whatever it was in the movie, right? And "What if people are nefariously feasting on my liver while I'm having these little experiences?" Don't imagine any of that. It's not that the evil scientist is just deliberately deceiving you so as to conduct his nefarious experiments. Nothing like that. And similarly, while we're at it-- this is not a Matrix-like worry-- if you're worried about, yeah, but what's happening to world poverty while I'm doing all of this? Just imagine that everybody's hooked up to experience machines, but everybody's got the best possible tapes. Now you ask yourself, what I'm asking you to ask yourself, is would you want to spend your life hooked up to the experience machine? I'm not talking about, wouldn't it be interesting to try it out for a week or a month or even a year? And indeed, the question, strictly speaking, isn't even would life on the experience machine be better than it is now? Although it would make me very, very sad to discover this, I suppose it's possible some of you have such bad lives that moving on to the experience machine would be a step up. That's not the question. The question is, does life on the experience machine give you everything worth having in life? Everything worth having in life. Is it the best possible form of human existence? According to the hedonists, the answer's got to be, it has to be "Yes." Life on the experience machine is perfect, as long as you've got the right tape plugged in. So, you've got the best possible balance of wonderful pleasures and wonderful, fantastic experiences, since that's all there is to human wellbeing. By hypothesis, the machine is giving us that. There couldn't possibly be anything more. There couldn't possibly be anything missing. But when I think about the question, would I want to spend my life hooked up to an experience machine? the answer is "No." And I imagine that for most of you, when you ask yourself, would you want your entire life to be spent hooked up to the experience machine? your answer is "No." But if the answer is "No," then that means hedonism's got to be wrong. If life on the experience machine is not everything, then there's more to the best possible life than getting the insides right. The experience machine gets the pleasures right, gets the experiences right, gets the mental states right, it gets the insides right, but if life on the experience machine isn't all that's worth wanting out of life, then there's more to the best possible life than getting the insides right. What we've got to turn to next time, then, is the question, what else might it be? Okay. 



 Chapter 19: 生命的价值（二）：死亡的其它坏处（一）


Last time, I invited you to think about life on the experience machine, where the scientists are busy stimulating your brain in such a way as to give you an exact replica from the insides of what it would be like having identical experiences to the ones you would have if you were really doing-- well, whatever it is that's worth doing. Climbing the Alps, writing the great American novel, raising a great family that loves you, being creative. Whatever it is you think is worth having, the experience machine gives you all the experiential side of those things. But you're not really doing those things. You're actually just floating in the scientist's lab. And we ask ourselves, would you want to live a life on the experience machine? Would you be happy or would you be unhappy, to discover that you actually have been living a life on the experience machine? Most of us, when we think about this, find ourselves wanting to say, no, we wouldn't want to have a life on the experience machine. I've been discussing this sort of example for many, many years. And there's always a group of people who think, yes, life on the experience machine is perfect as long as you've got the right tape playing. But the vast majority always says, no, there's something missing from that life. It's not the ideal of human existences; it's not the best possible life we can imagine ourselves having. But that means, if we think something's missing, we then have to ask yourselves, what's missing? What's wrong with the experience machine? The one thing we can conclude immediately is, if you think life on the experience machine is missing something, that the hedonist, and views like hedonism, must be wrong, in so far as they say that all that matters for the best possible life is for well-being, is getting the right kinds of experiences, getting the right kinds of mental states. Because by hypothesis, the experience machine gets the mental states right, get the insides right. So, if something's missing from that life, there's more to the best kind of life than just having the right mental states, than just getting the insides right. Well, we ask ourselves then, well, what's missing? I think different people will answer that in different ways. And if we had more time we could spell out rival theories of well-being, which could be interestingly distinguished one from another in terms of how they answer the question, "What's missing from the experience machine?" On the one hand, and "Why are the things that are missing from the experience machine worth having?" Different theories of well-being might answer that in different ways. Instead of trying to pursue those alternative theories in a systematic fashion, let me just gesture toward some of the things that seem to be missing from that kind of life. Well, first of all, and most, perhaps, obviously-- if you're just spending your life floating in the scientist's lab, you're not actually accomplishing anything. You're not actually getting the things out of life you thought you were getting. You wanted to be climbing the mountain, but you're not actually climbing a mountain. You're just floating there. You wanted to be writing the great American novel, but you're not writing the great American novel. You're just floating there. You wanted to be finding the cure for cancer, but you're not actually finding the cure for cancer. You wanted to be loved, but you're not actually loved. You're just floating there. Nobody other than the scientist even knows that you exist. So, there's a variety of things you wanted. You wanted to know your place in the universe, but you don't even have that kind of knowledge either, because you think you're writing novels, finding the cure for cancer, climbing Mount Everest. You're completely deceived about all those things. So you don't have the kind of self-knowledge that many of us value. Well, as I say, different theories would try to systematize these examples in different ways; that we don't have any kind of accomplishments, we don't have knowledge, we're not in the right kinds of loving relationships. Different theories might have different explanations as to-- are these things valuable because we want them, or do we want them because we recognize they're valuable? Rather than trying to pursue those questions-- And indeed, trying to work out the details of these views would be complicated as well. Take the example of accomplishment. Well, we all think accomplishment's important, but it's not as though any old accomplishment is important. If somebody sets themselves--or so it seems to me at least-- if somebody sets theirself the goal of making the biggest rubber band ball in the Eastern United States, I suppose there's a sense of the word that that's an accomplishment if they've got it, but it doesn't strike me as the kind of accomplishment which makes for a particularly valuable life. So, we might have to distinguish between any old accomplishment and genuinely valuable accomplishments. But again, just put those details aside. We can say that there are certain things that are good above and beyond experiences-- the right kinds of accomplishments, the right kind of knowledge. After all, not every bit of knowledge is equally valuable. It's one thing to know your place in the universe, or to know the fundamental laws of physics. It's another thing to know what was the average rainfall in Bangkok in 1984. I'm not clear that that kind of knowledge gives a whole lot of value to your life. So, we need the right kinds of accomplishments and the right kind of knowledge and the right kinds of relationships. But imagine you've worked that out. The crucial point is that it takes more to have the best kind of life than just getting the insides right. It also requires getting the outsides right whatever that comes to-- having in your life not just experiences but the right kinds of goods or accomplishments or whatever term we use for it. Now, let's say, instead of pursuing the questions of how exactly that theory should go, notice that if we had that theory, we could still evaluate in principle-- whatever the practical difficulties might be-- in principle we could still evaluate rival lives. We could talk about adding up all the positive experiences along with all the--ask yourself how many goods, how many accomplishments of the right sort were in that life? And that's on the positive side of the ledger. And against that we would then have to subtract the sum total of the negative experiences, all the failures and deceptions or what have you. Those would count against the overall value of your life. We could still say it's--how good your life is, is a matter of adding up the goods and subtracting the bads. But we would now have a somewhat broader, or more encompassing or inclusive, list of goods, and a more broad and encompassing list of bads-- not just experience, but also these various other accomplishments, whatever exactly that list comes to. So, we could still evaluate rival lives. My life would've gone better had I chosen to become a farmer instead of chosen to become a doctor. Or my life would've gone better for this period of ten years, but then it would've become worse. Or what have you. Or when we ask ourselves, how will things go for me over the next couple of weeks if I go on vacation versus staying back here? We add up the goods, subtract the bads --whatever our favorite list is-- and we come to our best educated guess about the rival evaluations of not just lives as a whole, but chunks of lives. Now, what do those totals come to? Well, you might think it's an empirical question, and in fact I am inclined to think it's an empirical question, varying from person to person. But it's worth taking a moment to flag the fact that there are people, there are philosophers, who think we can generalize across all humans. You might say that optimists are people who think that for everybody in every case, in every circumstance, the total is always positive. "Life's always worth living; it's always better than non-existence." That's what the optimist thinks-- not just for themselves individually, but for everybody, the total is always positive. Against that, I suppose, you've got pessimists-- pessimists who say, "No, no. Although life perhaps has some good things, the overall grand balance is negative for everybody in every circumstance. We'd all be better off dead, or perhaps more accurately still, all be better off never having been born in the first place." That's what the pessimists say. And in between the optimists on the one hand and the pessimists on the other, you've got moderates who say, "It varies. And for some people the balance is positive, for some people perhaps the balance is negative, whether for their life as a whole or for certain stretches of their lives." We then have to get down to facts about cases, try to describe the instance, perhaps somebody who's in the terminal stages of some illness where they're in a great deal of pain. And the various other external goods of life, they can't-- because they're bedridden, they can no longer accomplish things, perhaps their family has abandoned them. Whatever the details might be,we could describe lives and say, whether or not their life was good as a whole, what the future holds out for them is negative. That's what the moderates would say. It varies from case to case. Well, however we settle that issue, notice there's still one other assumption that all these positions still have in common. We've expanded our list of goods so that-- Nobody's going to deny that among the goods of life are pleasure and other positive experiences. And among the bads of life are pain and other negative experiences. But we've expanded the list of goods so it includes external goods and not only experiential or internal goods. Still, the views that I've been sketching all still have the following assumption in common. How good it is to be alive is a matter of adding up all of the --call it the contents of life. Add up your experiences and your accomplishments and the particular details of your life as what the story is about. It's as though we've been assuming, and I have been assuming up to this moment, that being alive per se has no value. It's--life itself is a container which we fill with various goods or bads. And deciding how valuable it is, how good it is for me to be alive is is a matter of adding up the value of the contents of the life. But the container itself is a mere container. It has no value in and of itself. We could say that what I've been presupposing up to this point is the "Neutral container theory" of the value of life. Hedonism is a version of the neutral container theory. How valuable-- how well off you are, how valuable your life is, is a function of the contents, the pleasure and the pain. We've expanded the list of goods that can go within your life, but for all that, we've still been acting as though the neutral container theory is the right approach. But against this there are those who think, no, in addition to thinking about the value of the content of life, we have to remember--so these people claim-- that life itself is worth having. There's a benefit to me above and beyond the question of what's going on within my life-- am I loved, am I accomplishing things, am I having nice experiences or not? Above and beyond the question of the contents of my life, we have to remember that the mere fact that I'm alive gives my life some value. So, these are "Valuable container theories". Now, think about what it would mean to accept a valuable container theory. You're saying that being alive per se has some positive value. Well, actually, the first remark is, probably wouldn't be completely accurate to say, to describe these views as saying, "It's being alive per se." After all, a blade of grass is alive, and I presume that even fans of the, what we might call valuable container theories, don't think that, "Oh, wouldn't it be wonderful if-- as long as I was alive in the way that a blade of grass is alive." Life may have value in and of itself, but it's not mere life. What we want is the life of a human. We want a life in which we're accomplishing things, there's agency, and the life of knowing things. Because you have to be a knower in order to have knowledge. The life of somebody who can have an emotional side. So, it's something like the life of a person that when we say, when there are people who are inclined to say, that being alive per so is valuable, presumably what they mean is being alive as a person per se is valuable. All right. Note that point; keep it in mind. For simplicity I'll talk about these views as though they say life per se is valuable. Actually, I suppose there could be a more extreme view still. It seems implausible to me, but I suppose it's worth noticing there are people who think, "No, being alive per se, right-- even though there I am and my brain has been so thoroughly destroyed that I'm not longer able to know anything, no longer able to relate emotionally to anybody, no longer able to accomplish anything, there I am in a persistent vegetative state, but at least I'm alive." You can imagine somebody who has that view. I've got to say I find that a pretty implausible view. So I'm going to restrict myself, at least when I think about it, to versions that say, it's the life of a person per se that's valuable. Now, notice that if we accept this view to decide how well off I am, or somebody else is, you can't just add up the contents of the life. You can't just add up all the pleasures and subtract the pains, or add up all the accomplishments and subtract the failures, or add up all the knowledge and subtract the ignorance and deception. Doing that in terms of the contents gives you a subtotal, but that subtotal is no longer the entire story. Because we also have to add in, if we accept a valuable container theory, we also have to add in some extra positive points to take account of the fact that, well, at least you're alive or have the life or a person-- or whatever it is that you think is valuable in and of itself. So first we get the content subtotal; then we add some extra points for the mere fact that you're alive. Now, notice that since we are adding extra positive facts, extra positive points, for the fact that you're alive, even if the contents subtotal is negative, the grand total could still be positive. Suppose that being alive per se is worth plus a hundred points, just to make up some number. Even if your content subtotal was negative ten, that doesn't mean you're not better off alive, because negative ten plus the extra hundred points for the mere fact that you're alive is still going to give you a positive total, plus 90. So, the point of thinking about the possibility of accepting a valuable container theory is to remind us that in deciding are you better off dead, has death deprived me of something good or not, it's important to not just focus on the contents but to also remember to add some positive points above and beyond the content subtotal to take into account the value of the sheer fact that you're alive. If you're a fan of the neutral container theory, you won't have anything extra to add, because life per se is just a zero. It's strictly a matter of the contents. But if you accept a valuable container theory, you have to add something more. And so even if, you might say, the way my life is going in terms of its contents is bad, being alive per se might still be a good thing. Have to add some extra points. How much extra? Well, here we're going to have, of course, more modest and more bold versions of the valuable container theory. Let me just distinguish two broad types. What we might call modest versions of the valuable container theory say, although being alive per se is good, if the contents of your life get bad enough, that can outweigh the value of being alive so that the grand total is negative. Modest container theories, that is, say there's a value to being alive, but it can in principle be outweighed. Whether it gets outweighed easily, or whether it's very, very difficult and the contents have to be horrible to outweigh it, depends on how much value you think being alive per se has. So, those are modest theories-- positive value for life, but it can be outweighed. Against that, you can imagine someone who thinks being alive per se is so incredibly valuable that no matter how horrible the contents are, the grand total will always be positive. It's as though being alive is infinitely valuable in comparison to questions about the contents. We could call this the "Fantastic valuable container theory" As opposed to the "Modest valuable container theory." I suppose that label gives away where I want to come down on this. I find the fantastic valuable container theory fantastic in the sense of incredible. I can't bring myself to believe it, which... I have some sympathies for valuable container theories, but I also have some sympathy for neutral container theories. Sometimes I'm drawn toward the neutral view; sometimes I'm drawn toward the thought that being alive per se is good for you. But even in those moments when I'm drawn towards valuable container theories, it's always the modest version. I don't find myself drawn toward the fantastic version. Now, if we make these distinctions, then again, remembering that the question we've been asking ourselves is, "So why is death bad?" The deprivation account says, death is bad for you insofar as, or it's bad for you when, by virtue of dying now, what you've been deprived of is, another chunk of life that would've been good for you to have. And what we now see is that-- to see whether that could be the case or not, we've got to get clear in our own minds about whether we believe in a neutral container theory, a positive, valuable container theory or-- and among those, between a fantastic and a modest container theory. If we are neutralists, we're going to say, the question is, what would the contents of my life have been, for the next year, ten years, whatever? If that would've been worth having, then if the next chunk of my life would've been worth having, then it's bad for me that I die now instead of living for the next ten years. On the other hand, if the balance from here on out would've been negative, then it's good for me that I died now instead of being kept alive with a life not worth living. That's how the neutralists put it. If we are valuable container theorists, we think the answer has got to be, well, look at the contents, but don't forget to add some extra points, even if the next five years for you would've been, in terms of the contents modestly bad, perhaps the value of at least being alive at all outweighs it, so it still would've been better for you to be alive. But if the contents get bad enough, then you'd be better off dead. Notice that on the modest view, if we ask ourselves, would it have been good to be immortal? the answer's going to depend on not just whether we accept Bernard Williams' claim that immortality would be bad for you, because we now realize that what Williams was talking about was the contents of an immortal life. And that's no longer an adequate view, or at least it's no longer a complete story, if we are valuable container theorists. We could say--you could imagine somebody saying, "Oh yes, you're right, Williams, the contents get negative, but that's still outweighed by the mere fact that you're alive. So on balance, being immortal is a good thing." Whether that's right or not depends on just how bad would it be to be immortal. Because, of course, if you're a modest, if you accept the modest version of the valuable container theory, then if the contents get bad enough, that can outweigh the positive value of life. Against that, fans of the fantastic valuable container theory can say, it doesn't really matter whether Williams is right. Even if being immortal would become horrendously boring and tedious or worse, it doesn't matter. The value of being alive per se outweighs that. So you're always better off being alive. So more life would always be better, no matter how horrible the contents might be. So being immortal really would be a good thing for you. Death always is a bad thing. That's what you can say if you accept the fantastic container theory. I don't find the fantastic container theory myself-- I don't find it particularly attractive. I'm inclined to think not only that-- not only that the contents of life would be bad, eventually, for all of us if we were immortal --but that it would be bad enough to outweigh whatever value, whatever positive value being alive per se may have for us. So, I'm inclined to think, eventually immortality would always be bad overall. But let me remind you that saying that does not rule out the possibility of consistently going on to say that even though it's a good thing that we die, because eventually immortality would be horrible-- for all that, death could still come too soon. It could still be the case that we die before life has turned bad. We die while it's still the case that living another ten years or twenty years, or for that matter five hundred years-- would still or could still have been good for us. It's compatible with thinking that immortality would be bad to think that in fact death comes too soon. But of course, we now have a return of the division between moderates, optimists and pessimists. You might say, optimists are those-- now in this more chastened version of optimism, optimists say, "Even if immortality would be bad eventually after a million years or ten million years or what have you, the next chunk of life would've been good for all of us." So that death--they're optimists in this strange sense, if they think life would've been good, which means of course that that we die is bad for us. Because we all die too soon. That's what the optimists might say. Against that, the pessimists might say, "Boy, death comes not a moment too soon for any of us. The next chunk of life is always not worth having, always worse than nothing." And in between these two extremes are the moderates, who say, "For some of us, death comes too soon. For some of us, death does not come too soon." There's a quote I want to read. It's actually out of place now. I should have read it a lecture or two ago when I started talking about immortality, but I misplaced it. So, I found it this morning. So before I just leave the subject of immortality, let me conclude with some words of wisdom from a former Miss USA contestant. She was asked the question, "Would you want to live forever?" And she responded, "I would not live forever, because we should not live forever. Because if we were supposed to live forever, then we would live forever. But we cannot live forever, which is why I would not live forever." Isn't that nice? All right. So I've been talking for, actually now a couple of weeks I suppose, about the central badness of death. Why is it that death is bad for me? And the answer I propose is the deprivation account. The central bad thing about the fact that I'm going to die is the fact that because I'll be dead I'll be deprived of the good things in life. And we've now seen that that's a bit crude, right? We have to not talk--just talk about the good things in the life, but the good of life itself, and we have to notice that perhaps on certain views, for certain cases, it's not really the case that when I die I'm being deprived of a good life. Because the next chunk, or perhaps from there on out, it would've been bad. But still, details and complications of the sort we've been considering aside, the fundamental badness of death is that it deprives me of life worth having. But although I've been at pains to say this is the fundamental bad thing about death, I think it's arguable that--I think one could make the case that this isn't the only bad thing about death, even if we're focusing on why is death bad for me? There are other features of death, as we experience it, that are separable from the deprivation account, that at least add to the way that death occurs for us, where we then have to ask the question, does this add to the badness of death? Or conceivably for some of these things, perhaps it mitigates it; it minimizes it in one way or another. So, what I want to do is take at least a couple of minutes and pursue some of these extra features as well. Here's an example. It's not merely the fact that...it's not merely true that you're going to die. It's inevitable that you're going to die. There's no avoiding the fact that you're going to die. I mean look, you're all going to college, but it wasn't inevitable that you go to college. Had you chosen not to, you could've avoided going to college. But it doesn't matter what you choose, you can't avoid dying. So it's not just merely the case that in fact we are all going to die; it's a necessary truth that we're all going to die. So we might ask, what about this inevitability of death? Does that make things worse? And here I want to distinguish between the individual question about the inevitability of death, and the universal question. So just start by thinking about the fact that it's unavoidable that you're going to die. Does the unavoidability of death make it better or worse? And the interesting thing is, I think you can see-- you can get a feel for both possible answers here. On the one hand, you can imagine somebody who says, "Look, it's bad enough that I'm going to die, but the fact that there's nothing I could do about it just makes it worse. It's like adding insult to injury that I'm powerless in the face of death. I cannot escape the Grim Reaper. This sheer powerlessness about this central fact about the nature of my existence is an extra insult added to the injury." Against that, however, there are those people who'd want to say, "No. Actually, the inevitability of my death reduces the badness." You all know the expression, "Don't cry over spilt milk." Right? That what's done is done. You can't change it. What you can't change, loses...when you focus on the fact that you can't change it, it loses some of its grip to upset you. Well, if that's right, and if we then realize that there's nothing I can do about the fact that I'm going to die, then perhaps some of the sting, some of the bite, is eliminated. It's as though you try--try getting upset about the fact that two plus two equals four. Try feeling upset at your powerlessness to change the fact that two plus two equals four. Suppose you wanted two plus two to equal five. Can you work up anger and regret and dismay over that? Well, most of us, of course, can't. Because when we see that something is just necessary, we... it reduces the sting of it. The philosopher Spinoza thought that if we could only recognize the fact, what he at least took to be the fact, that everything that happens in life is necessary, then we'd get a kind of emotional distance from it; it would no longer upset us. We could no longer be disappointed, because to be disappointed in something presupposes that it could've been some other way. And Spinoza thought if you see that it couldn't go any other way, then you can't be sad about it. Well, if we see that our death is inevitable and we really internalize that fact, perhaps that would reduce the badness of it. Well, maybe that's right, but going back to the firsthand, I don't know how many of you have read Dostoyevsky's short novel the Underground Man. The Underground Man is upset about--if I remember correctly-- he's upset about the fact that two plus two equals four and there's nothing that he can do about it. So he curses existence, curses God at having made him so impotent that he can't change the fact that two plus two equals four. And another philosopher, Descartes, in thinking about God's omnipotence, thought that it wouldn't be good enough if God as omnipotent couldn't change the facts of mathematics. And so he imagines that God, as omnipotent, could've made two plus two equals five. And so it's a kind of... So, it is indeed a fact of our powerlessness that we're stuck with the necessities. God isn't stuck with them. And so Dostoyevsky takes that thought and runs with it and says, "Yeah. It doesn't help to say that it's inevitable. It makes it worse." Well, there's both sides. And as I say, I myself, in different moods, get pulled in both ways. What about the fact that not only is it inevitable that I'm going to die, it's inevitable that we're all going to die. Does the universality of death make things better or worse? And again, you can sort of feel the pull both ways. On the one hand you say, it's bad that I'm going to die, but I'm not a monster. It makes me feel even worse that everybody else is stuck dying-- or perhaps we should say dying too soon in light of our discussion about immortality. It's a pity that most everybody, or perhaps everybody, dies too soon. That makes it even worse. On the other hand, you know, let's be honest here, we also know the expression, "Misery loves company." And there's at least some comfort to be had, isn't there, in the realization that this thing isn't just true for me. It's not like the universe has singled me out for the deprivation of dying too soon. It's something that it does to everybody. So perhaps there's some comfort in the inevitability of death. Well, here's a different aspect of death worth thinking about. What about the variability of death? After all, it's not just the case that we all die. And I'll stop saying die too soon. Let's just suppose we understand that clause to be implied in what I'm saying. It's not just the case that we all die. There's a great deal of variation in how much life we get. Some of us make it to the ripe old age of 80, 90 a 100 or more. Others of us die at 20, or 15, or 10, or younger. Even if death were inevitable, it wouldn't have to come in different-sized packages. That is, it wouldn't have to have variability. We could imagine a world in which everybody dies-- everybody dies at the age of a hundred. Does it make things worse or better that there's this kind of variability? From the moral point of view, I suppose, it's fairly straightforward to suggest it makes things worse. After all, most of us are inclined to think that inequality is morally objectionable. It's bad that, through no fault of their own, some people are poor and other people are rich. Or other people are rich. If inequality is morally objectionable, then it's very likely we're going to think it's morally horrendous that there's this crucial inequality: some of us die a the age of 5 while others get to live to 90. But in keeping with the focus of our discussion about the badness of death, I want to put aside the moral question and think about how good or bad for me is it that there's variability in death? Well, we might say, let's look at it from two basic perspectives, those who get less than the average lifespan and those who get more than the average lifespan. From the point of view of somebody who gets less, this is obviously a bad thing. It's bad enough that I'm going to die too soon. I said I wasn't going to keep saying that remark, and here I am saying it anyway. It's bad enough that I'm going to die. But what's even worse is I'm going to get even less than the average amount of life. That's clearly an extra-bad. But we might then wonder, for every person who gets less than the average amount of life-- suppose we take the median, take the amount of life that's exactly, 50 percent of the people get more, 50 percent of the people get less. For every person who has less than the median amount of life, there's another person who has more than the median amount of life. That person gets to say, hey. Well, you know, it's a pity that I'm going to die or die too soon, but at least I'm getting more than the average. That's a plus. So perhaps these two aspects balance themselves out. There are people who are basically screwed by the fact that they get less than the average amount and people who are benefited by getting more than the average amount. So perhaps in terms of the individual badness of death, that's a wash. Maybe, except it seems to me it's a further fact about human psychology that we care more about being short changed than we do about being, as we might put it, overcompensated. I rather suspect that people who have less than the average of something, it hurts them more than it benefits the people who have more than the average of something. And if that's right-- and that seems likely to be the case, especially for something like death-- the extra bad of the fact that there's variability and so some people get less than average-- that extra bad, I suspect, outweighs the extra benefit of some people having more than average. Well, let's consider a different feature. We've had inevitability; we had variability. What about unpredictability? Not only is it inevitable that you're going to die; not only do some people live longer than others, you don't know how much more time you've got. Now, you might think, well, didn't we already discuss that when we started thinking about variability? But in fact, logically speaking at least, variability, although it's a requirement for unpredictability, doesn't guarantee unpredictability. You could have variability with complete predictability. Imagine that when everybody's born, on their wrist everybody's born with a natural birthmark that indicates the precise year, day, and time in which they're going to die. We could imagine a world like this where it's inevitable; everybody's got some date on it. And for that matter, there could still be variability. Some people live 80 years, some people live 20 years. But there's no unpredictability. Because of the birthmark, everybody knows exactly how much longer they've got. Well, so in our world we don't have that. In our world, not only do we have variability, we've got unpredictability. Does that make things better? Or does that make things worse? Would it be better to know when you were going to die? Well, one way in which unpredictability at least has the potential of making things worse is this. Because you don't know how much more time you've got-- You can make a guess based on statistics, but as we saw, there's wild unpredictability. You can think, look, "The average lifespan in the United States is whatever it is, 82 years. So I probably have, you guys are in your 20s--you know 20-- roughly another 60 years are going." And as you're busy calculating all this, you're walking across Chapel Street and you get hit by a truck and you die. Right? Because of unpredictability, you can't really know. And because you can't really know, it's difficult to make the right kinds of plans. And in particular, it's hard to know how to pace yourself. You decide to go off to medical school, become a doctor. And so not only do you put the time into college, you put the time into medical school, you put the time into your residency and you put your time into your internship. And that's a very long commitment. It's a long-term plan, which can go wrong if you get sick and die in your early 20s. Well, that's a rather dramatic example, but the same sort of thing in principle can happen to all of us. You make a life plan, what you want to accomplish in your life, and well, obviously enough, some of us will die too soon, not just in terms of, "Oh, well, life still could've had good things," but too soon in terms of you didn't get where you wanted to get in terms of your life plan. If only you'd known you were only going to have 20 more years instead of 50 more years, you would've picked a different kind of life for yourself. The unpredictability makes it worse. And indeed, less obviously, it can work the other way as well. You make a life plan, and then, you know, you don't die yet. You continue to stick around, and then your life has this feeling of-- at least we can imagine this happening-- being sort of anticlimactic. You peaked too soon. If only you'd known you had another 50 years, that you weren't going to die young-- or James Dean, going to burn out fast and die young-- if only you'd realized you were going to live to the ripe old age of 97, you would have picked a different life for yourself. Now, in thinking about these points, in effect I'm suggesting that the value of your life-- so ,we previously were talking about different theories of well-being and what makes for the best kind of life. Here we have yet another kind of feature that we haven't talked about. We might think of it as, the overall shape of your life matters. What we could also call "The narrative arc of your life" Matters. Let me illustrate the point with some very, very simple graphs. These are not meant to be realistic, but they'll give you the idea. So, we all know the Horatio Alger story right? Somebody starts out poor and makes his way through hard work and dedication and effort to riches and success. Rags to riches-- that's a wonderful, inspiring life. Let's draw the graph of that life. So here's how well off you are, here is time, and you start with nothing and you end up incredibly well off. That's a great life. That's the Horatio Alger life-- H.A. Great life. All right. Now, consider the following story. Here are the axes again. Instead of the rags to riches life, imagine the riches to rags life. Starts off with everything, ends up with nothing. That's the Algers Horatio story. It's the reverse. Now, I doubt if there's anybody here who is indifferent between the choices, indifferent with regard to the choice between these two lives. I imagine that everybody here prefers this life. But notice that in terms of the contents of the life, at least the local contents, it's a bit hard to see why that would be the case, right? We've got equal periods of suffering and doing slightly better and slightly better and slightly better-- equal periods of success and suffering. For every bad period here there's a corresponding bad period here. For every good period here there's a corresponding good period here. In terms of the contents of your life, being crude but you see the point, in terms of the contents of your life--equally good. And even if we accept the valuable container theory, and so we say, "Hah, you know, being alive per se is worth something as well." Well, you're alive for equal periods of time. So the extra points get added either way. You might say, look, if we're not indifferent between these two lives, that's because we think the overall shape of your life matters as well. The narrative arc, as I put it. The story "Bad to good" is the kind of story we want for ourselves, while the story "Good to bad" is the kind of story we don't want for ourselves. Interesting question. Why is that? And this of course should remind us of the puzzle about Lucretius. Why do we care more about future non-existence than past non-existence? When the bad is behind us, that seems less bothersome than when the bad is in front of us. You may remember the story from Derek Parfit about having the painful operation. Was it going to be in the future or did it take place earlier today? You don't remember. We're not indifferent. We want the bad behind us, not the bad in front of us. So, whatever the explanation is, we care about the overall shape and trajectory of our life. Now, that being the case, we have to worry then that because of the unpredictability of death that our lives may not have the ideal shape. A lot of us might feel that a life like this, where we peak but then we stick around-- you know, isn't-- can at least fail to be as desirable in which we end with a bang. If you start thinking about narrative arcs-- imagine a novel, right? It's one thing to have--it's not to say that the best-- if you want your life to be like the plot of a great story, it's not as though you think, "All right, the denouement must occur at the very last page." It's okay to stick around for a while, but if the high point of the story occurs in chapter 2 and then there are another 67 chapters after that, you think, this was not a well-constructed novel. And in so far as we care about the overall shape of our lives, we might worry about wanting it to have the right shape overall. Where and when do you want to peak, as it were, in terms of your accomplishments? Well, that matters to us, but the trouble is, without predictability you don't know where to put the peak. Because if you try to aim for peaking later, you might not make it to that. If you put it too soon, you might stick around for longer than that, and then the peak has come too soon. All of this suggests then that the unpredictability of our death adds an extra negative element. It makes it harder to plan what the best way to live my life would be. And from that perspective it looks as though it would be better to know how much time you've got left. But then we have to ask-- so I'll throw the question out and we'll call it a day, start with this next time--then we have to ask, would it really be better to know? Would you want the birthmark? Would you want to know exactly how much time you've got left? All Right. See you next time. 



 Chapter 20: 死亡的其它坏处（二）


All right. Last time we started asking ourselves about what are some of the other aspects of death that might contribute to its badness, or at least other features of death that are worth thinking about. Conceivably, some of them might reduce the badness of death, in some way. We talked about the inevitability of death; we talked about the variability, that people have different lengths of time before they die. And we turned to a discussion of the unpredictability of death, the fact that because we don't know--we can't predict-- how much more time we've got, we may, as it were, pace ourselves incorrectly. You may take on a long-term project and then die before you've been able to complete it; or alternatively, you may peak too soon and then continue to stick around in an anti-climactic way. These are bads of life that could presumably be avoided if only we knew how much exactly we had--how much longer we had. On the other hand, we have to ask ourselves-- and this the question that I left us with last time-- whether it would really, all things considered, be better to know how much time you had. After all, if you knew--suppose we had the birthmarks that told you when you were going to die-- if you had that kind of a birthmark, you would face your entire life with the burden of knowing, I've got 48 years left, 47 years left, 50 years left. I should've been counting down-- 35, 30, 25 and so forth. Many of us would find that was, as I say, a burden-- something hanging constantly over us interfering with our ability to enjoy life. Suppose that there were some sort of genetic marker and, although we didn't have a tattoo that you would just have to look at, but you could have genetic counseling--have your DNA examined and you could tell, if you had the DNA testing, how much time you had left. Would you want to get that testing done? Now, that's of course science fiction, and I presume it's going to stay science fiction-- though we're on the cusp of having something at least approximating that as we learn more and more about the various genes that carry various diseases, we--more and more of us face the question of whether or not we want to get tested for those diseases. Suppose there was a test. Indeed, one occasionally reads in the newspaper about this sort of thing where you can get tested for such and such a disease. You might know already that you've got a 50 percent chance of having it, but you don't know whether you yourself have it. If you do have it, the disease will always have onset by age 40, 50 or what have you. Would you want to have that kind of information? Closely related question. If you did know how much time you had left, how would you act differently from what you're doing now? Would it focus your attention on making sure you did the things that were most important to you? And it's worth-- it's sort of a useful test for asking yourself what are the things you must value in life--to ask, what would you choose to do if you knew you had five years, ten years, what have you? There's an old Saturday Night Live routine where one of the actors is in the doctor's office, and the doctor gives him the very sad news that he's got two minutes left to live. And he says, "I'm going to pack a lifetime of enjoyment into those two minutes." And then of course, the point of the skit is he presses the down button on the elevator and a minute and a half goes by while he's waiting for the elevator to come. If you knew you had a year left or two years left, what would you do with that time? Would you be in school? Would you travel? Would you spend more time hanging out with your friends? A very, for me, extremely striking example of this question occurred in this very class. There was a student in this class some years ago who was dying. And he knew that he was dying. He'd been diagnosed with, if I recall correctly, cancer as a freshmen-- and his doctor had told him that he pretty much had no chance of recovery and indeed had only a couple more years to live. Faced with that question, he had to ask himself, "Well, what should I do with my remaining years?" It was astonishing enough that somebody-- but perhaps understandable--that somebody in that situation would decide to take a class on death and then have himself, submit himself, to my getting up here week after week, talking about how there's no soul, there's no prospect for an afterlife, it's a good thing that we're all going to die. But faced with the question what should he do, what did he want to do with his remaining couple of years, what he decided he wanted to do was finish his Yale degree-- thought he'd set himself the goal of graduating college before he died. And he was taking this class second semester of his senior year. At least, he was taking it until Spring Break. By Spring Break he'd gotten sufficiently sick that his doctor basically said, "You can't continue in school anymore. You've got to go home." Basically, "You've got to go home to die." And indeed, he got progressively and then rapidly deteriorated at that point. The faculty members who were teaching his classes that semester then all faced the question posed to them by the administration, based on the work he's done so far this semester, has he--what kind of grade are you prepared to give him? Because, depending on which of his classes he passed and which of his classes he failed, the question was going to be, was he going to graduate or not? In fact, of course, he did manage to graduate. And Yale, to its, I think, real glory and credit sent a member of the administration down to his deathbed to award him his degree before he passed away. So, as I say, it's a very striking story. I'm not sure how many of us would decide the last thing we wanted to do with our remaining years is to spend it in college. Well, what is it that you'd want to do? And again, to move back and ask ourselves a larger question, would knowing how much time you have be something that would allow you to actually embrace those choices, or would it instead just be a burden? That's the kind of question we have to face when we think about the fact that we don't know how much time we've got. Is that something that increases the badness of death, or does it reduce its significance somewhat? Here's another feature. In addition to the inevitability, in addition to the variability, in addition to the unpredictability, there's the fact that death is, as I like to think of it, ubiquitous. I don't just mean the fact that people are dying all around us, but I mean rather, you yourself could die at any time. There's never any getting away from the possibility that you'll die now. Even if we didn't have unpredictability, I mean rather, even if we had unpredictability, it wouldn't necessarily follow that death was pervasive in this way. The point I've got in mind here is this-- even when you think you're perfectly safe, you could of course die of a stroke. You could die of a heart attack. Even somebody who's young could have an aneurysm. Or one of my favorite examples, you could be sitting in your-- you read this sort of thing in the newspaper periodically-- you could be sitting in your living room when suddenly an airplane crashes into your house, killing you. These sorts of things happen. You thought you were safe. You were watching reruns on television-- the next minute, you're dead. The fact that you could die and you don't know when you're going to die doesn't yet entail that you could die at any minute, at any moment. But in fact, that's true of us as well. Yet another example close to heart. I remember--before I taught here I used to teach at the University of Illinois at Chicago. And once I was driving down the highway and a car pulled in without looking and clipped my car, and caused my car-- you know, so pulled in from the entrance--caused my car to go careening across three lanes of traffic spinning out of control. And I remember quite clearly thinking to myself as that happened-- the whole thing lasted only a few moments-- but I remember thinking quite clearly, "I'm going to die." Now, as it happens, I didn't die. I walked away from the accident, and the damage to my car was rather minimal. But it could've have happened like that. Death is--the possibility of death--is ubiquitous. It's pervasive. We have to ask ourselves then, does this make things worse? It certainly feels, to my mind, as though it's an extra bad about the nature of death. It would be nice to get a breather. Imagine, if you will, that there were certain locations, certain vacation spots, where as long as you were there you couldn't die. Wouldn't it be nice to be able to go someplace and just for a period think to yourself, "Well, you know, right now I don't have to worry about that. It doesn't even have to cross my mind." Maybe if there were these sort of death-free zones, they'd get rather crowded. So perhaps we should change the example. Instead of having death-free zones, imagine that there were death-free times. Just suppose, for whatever reason, nobody could die between twelve and one. You could just put it out of your mind. Wouldn't that be nice? All right, one o'clock, you take the mantle back on. But wouldn't it be nice to just have a certain period of time every day when you didn't have to even have it be so much as a remote possibility? Or suppose there were certain death-free activities. Maybe reading philosophy would be something that as long as you were doing it you couldn't die or, as perhaps some religious traditions might've taught, as long as you were engaged in prayer you couldn't die. Wouldn't that be nice? Or turn the entire thing the other way around. Suppose that most times and most activities were death free, but certain activities introduce the possibility of dying. So you couldn't die unless you were engaged in certain activities. So you would be immortal but not in the sense of immortal against your will. There'd be certain activities perhaps, for example putting a gun to your head, that would put an end to your life. So even if immortality would be bad, there would be certain things you could do that could end it. Ask yourself, what sorts of activities would you engage in if you knew that those activities carried with them the risk of dying? So most of the time you couldn't die. What things would be so important to you that you'd be willing to suddenly risk death for the sake of doing those things? You like art. Is art important enough to you that you'd be prepared to watch, look at a masterpiece, if you knew that while you were enjoying it you could die, but that wouldn't happen otherwise? Is sex great enough that you'd be prepared to run the risk of dying while you were engaged in sex? Again, it's a nice lens for asking yourself, what are the things that are most valuable to you? By asking, which of them are so valuable you'd be prepared to do them even if they would introduce what isn't otherwise there, namely, the risk of death? Now, in the posing the question that way, I've been assuming that these are things you'd do despite the fact that they run the risk of death. I suppose there's a further question we have to ask, are there things that would be worth doing precisely because of the fact that they introduced the risk of death? Now, I've got to admit that when I pose that question, that sounds rather bizarre. At least, putting aside the possibility that we've now lived our hundred thousand years and have exhausted all that life's got to offer for us, certainly to engage in activities now, while life still has so much more to offer-- to engage in activities now where, precisely for the chance of dying, that strikes me as bizarre. And yet, it seems to me that there are many activities, and if not many at least several activities, that people do precisely for that reason. For example, let me tell you something I know that's going to shock you. Did you know there are people who jump out of airplanes? Now, admittedly they've got this little piece of cloth that gives them a decent chance of not killing themselves when they jump out of airplanes. But these things do fail. Every now and then you read in the newspaper about somebody whose parachute failed to open and so they died. And I ask myself, why? What could possibly drive somebody to jump out of an airplane with nothing but a little piece of cloth between them and death? And the answer that strikes me as most plausible is, it's the very fact that there's a significant chance of death that helps explain why people do this. Now, I know if you talk to some of these people, they'll often say, "Oh, no, no, no. The views are so glorious," or something like that. But I think this is rather an implausible suggestion, because, of course, you could have these glorious views just by going up in the airplane and looking down from the safety of your airplane. Part of the thrill has got to be--or so it seems to me-- part of the thrill has got to be the very fact that they now have an increased risk of death. The chance of dying is part of what drives somebody to jump out of an airplane. Well, if that's right, then should we say that the pervasiveness of death, ubiquitousness of death-- the thing that I was earlier suggesting was oppressive-- wouldn't it really be nice to have a death-free time or a death-free location or death-free activities? Maybe I was wrong in suggesting that. If the chance of death would add a kind of zest, then perhaps the ubiquity of death is actually a good thing rather than a bad thing. Well, I'm inclined to think, at least in my own case, that that's not right. And perhaps the explanation has got to be the ubiquity of death is this kind of background, constant hum. And the fact that we're always facing some risk of death recedes into the background in the way that most of us don't hear background noise--that what jumping out of an airplane does for you is it spikes the risk of death. So, it's not really good enough to just have some risk of death-- it's got to be greater risk than usual. If that's right, if that's the psychology, then even for those death thrill seekers, the ubiquity of death won't necessarily be a good thing because of it being constant. It just recedes into the background. All right. So again, what I've been asking us to think about are various aspects of death that might contribute to either increase or perhaps in certain ways reduce somewhat the badness of death. There's one more aspect that I want to take a couple of minutes and have us think about, and that's this. Previously to this most recent discussion, I talked about the value of life. Some rival theories about what makes life worth living. And for the last lecture or so I've been talking about, in addition to the deprivation account, the additional things that contribute to the badness of death. So you might think, well, what about the human condition as a whole? What about the fact that it's not just that we live, or for that matter it's not just that we die. What's true about humans is that we live and then we die. That's the human condition--life followed by death. You might ask, what's the value of that entire combination? Now, the most natural thing to suggest would be, well, you get clear on your favorite theory about the value of life, whatever that is. You get clear about the kinds of questions we've just been asking about the badness of death, whatever that is. What's the overall assessment of the human condition? You might think, well, that's just a matter of adding up the goodness of life and subtracting the badness of death and summing whatever it comes to. I suppose, again, the optimist says, "Yeah, death is bad, but life is good, sufficiently good to outweigh the badness of the fact that we're going to die. On balance, it's a good thing to be born." And pessimists might be those who say, "No, no. On balance, the negative of death outweighs the positive-ness of life." But I want to pause for a moment and note that this assumption that the way to think about the value of the combination as just a matter of adding the goodness of life and the badness of death and just summing them that way,that may not be right. Because sometimes the value of a combination is different than the value you would get by just thinking about each one of the parts in isolation and then adding them up. A kind of addition approach to values of wholes may not always be correct. Here's a nice simple example to make that point. My two favorite foods in the world are probably pizza on the one hand and chocolate on the other. I know I've shared my love of chocolate with you before. I don't recall having shared my love of pizza with you before, but there it is--two favorite things I love-- love pizza, delicious, love chocolate, delicious. Take these two delicious things and combine them into a chocolate covered pizza. Oh my God! The whole idea just sounds disgusting. And it is, I take it, disgusting. But you wouldn't notice the disgustingness if you just thought about the value of pizza in isolation and the value of chocolate in isolation. The value of chocolate-covered pizza is not just a matter of summing up the value of the parts taken in isolation. You've got to think about what we might dub "The interaction effects." So let's ask ourselves, are there any interaction effects when we talk about the human condition that it's life followed by death?" We've thought about the value of life in isolation; we've been, in effect, thinking about the value of death in isolation. Does the fact that death follows life-- does that produce any interaction effects between the two, which need to be added into our formula--added into the mix as well? Well, there's obviously, I suppose, two possibilities. Well, really three. Possibility number one is, no it doesn't make any difference-- uninteresting possibility. More interestingly--two remaining possibilities. Yeah, there are actually some ways in which the combination ends up becoming worse. The interaction effects make things even worse, and we can't overlook those negative interaction effects. Also, the possibility that there might be some positive interaction effects. Let me start briefly by mentioning a possibility for a positive interaction effect. Because of the fact that you're going to die, obviously enough, it's not just that you'll get whatever life you get, but there's a finite amount of life that you're going to get. Life is a scarce resource. It's precious. And we might be attracted to the thought that the value of life is increased by its very preciousness. There's a kind of aspect of value for many of us where we feel that something's especially valuable if it won't endure, if it's fragile, or if it's rare. This can enhance the value of something. And so, arguably, the fact that life is precious, that it won't endure, could actually increase its value for us. There's a short story by the science fiction writer Orson Scott Card, where the basic point of the story is that of all the life forms in the universe, we, here on Earth, are the only ones that are mortal. And because of this we are the envy of the rest of the universe. It's not so much that immortality, what the rest of them have, is unattractive or boring. It's perfectly fine, but they envy us for our finite lifespans, because what we've got and they don't have is something that's for each individual rare-- something that's not lasting, something that's precious in that way. All right, it's a possibility. So, it's possible that the very fact that we're going to die causes an interaction effect with our life so there's an upside to it. It makes our life fragile, ephemeral, and as a result of that, more precious. But it's also possible-- actually compatible with accepting that fact--there are two additional possibilities, that there might be some negative interaction effects. It could be that in thinking about the nature of the combination we're led to see that in certain ways the combination-- the interaction effects--are negative, are bad ones. Well, here are two possibilities for that thought. First possibility I think of under the heading "A Taste is Just a Tease." It's as though we live life for a while, getting a feel for all the wonderful things life could offer us, and then a moment later, as it were, it's snatched away from us. It's sort of adding insult to injury that we're offered just a whiff. It's as though somebody brought in this delicious meal to a hungry--before a hungry person-- allowed them to see what it looked like, allowed them to smell the delicious aromas, perhaps gave them just one little tiny forkful to see just how beautifully delicious the food was. And then they snatched the whole thing away. You can imagine somebody who says, "Look, it would be better never to have had the taste at all than to have the taste and then not be allowed to have the entire meal." That's something that you might not notice if you just focus on the intrinsic nature of the taste. After all, the intrinsic nature of the taste was positive. Or, if you just focused on the intrinsic character of the not-having the meal. After all, not having the meal is just an absence of a certain experience. To capture what's excruciatingly undesirable about the two, you need to think about the two in combination. It's an interaction effect. And we might think, look, this is one of the negative things about the human condition that we get a taste of life-- nothing more--before it's snatched away. That's one possibility. The second possible thought that comes to mind for me, in thinking about the negative interaction effects, I call under the title--I think about under the title-- "How the Noble Have Fallen." Right now, there's something amazing about us. We are people. In the universe we--who knows what is out there in the universe but at least on Earth we may well be the only people there are. Now, who knows? Maybe dolphins or certain--some of the great apes. But at any rate, it's a rather select club. We are, as I said, early in the semester when I said I'm a physicalist, I believe that people are just machines, but we're not just any old machine. We're amazing machines. We're able to love. We're able to write poetry. We're able to think about the farthest reaches of the universe and ask what our place is in the universe. People are amazing. And we end up rotting. We end up corpses. There's something-- for many of us, there's something horrifying about the thought that something as amazing as us, as exalted and valuable as us, could end up something as lowly and unimportant as a piece of rotting flesh. Again, think about it. The image here that comes to mind for me is one of these deposed kings who ends up waiting on tables to make a living in New York. And it's--you might think, "All right. The life of a waiter is not the worst thing in the world." But there's extra, again, insult to injury, when the person's got to remember that he used to be something extraordinary, a ruler. Again, if you just thought about life as a ruler, well pretty good thinking about it in isolation. Life as a waiter, not so bad thinking about it in isolation. To see the nature of the problem you've got to think about the fact that it's a combination package. There is something especially insulting about having gone from king to waiter. How the mighty have fallen. And that fate is waiting for all of us. It's a fact about the human condition that the amazing things we are don't stay amazing. We turn into pieces of rotting flesh, decaying. So two possible negative effects-- the taste is just a tease, the how the noble have fallen--on the one hand. One possible positive effect, the extra preciousness of life. I'm not quite sure where, on balance, we should say how these things play out. Again, I suppose we could have different views. On the one hand, the optimists might say, "Even when we throw in the extra interaction effects, even the negative interaction effects, the overall nature of the human condition is positive. So that it's a good thing to be born, even though your life is going to be followed by death." And against that, we could have the pessimists who say, "The negative side, especially once we throw in the negative interaction effects, the negative side is so great that it would be better never to have been born at all." That's the pessimist view. Given that we're going to die, this fact seeps back in and poisons the nature of life or perhaps poisons the nature of the whole, life followed by death, so that on balance the whole thing's negative. Better to have not had any of it, better to have not been born at all, say the pessimists, than to have this combination package of life followed by death. Now, for myself, I'm sufficiently optimistic that I'm inclined to think life's wonderful. The negative combination effects that I was talking about are certainly there, but on balance I think the human condition for must of us is a good one. It's better to have been born than never to--even though that's followed by death-- than never to have been born at all. But I do want to emphasize the point that even if we were to accept the pessimist's conclusion that it would be better never to have been born at all, it doesn't follow, at least doesn't follow without further argument, that the right response to the realization-- if it is the correct realization that it would be better never to have been born at all doesn't follow that the right response is to commit suicide. It's a tempting thought right? To go philosophically from life's so bad given the nature of the human condition, life followed by death, that better to never have had any of it than to have just had a taste and a tease and so forth. But it's a tempting philosophical thought to say, "Once I've shown it's better never to have been born, it follows that suicide is the appropriate response." But in fact, as a matter of logic, that doesn't follow at all. Because if you think about it, suicide doesn't change the fundamental nature of the human condition, life followed by death. It's not as though if you kill yourself you somehow bring it about that you've never been born at all. It's still the case that if there's something horrible about having just a taste-- Well, indeed, if you commit suicide you've made it an even shorter taste. If there's something sort of degrading or unnoble about being a person who is going to become a corpse, committing suicide doesn't alter that fundamental fact either. It just makes the insult come sooner. So, even if we were to agree with the pessimists that it would be better never to have been born at all, as the old joke goes, show me one person in a thousand who's so lucky, right? We have all been born. And from the fact, even if we were to agree with it, that it would've been better if we hadn't been born--instead of feeling sorry for unborn Larry, perhaps we should envy unborn Larry; that's what the pessimists say-- even if that were true, it wouldn't follow that suicide was an appropriate response. It doesn't mean of course that suicide isn't ever an appropriate response. We're coming on toward the end of the semester, and the last topic we'll be talking about is indeed the topic of suicide. When, if ever, is suicide an appropriate, rational or moral response to one's situation? Let's hold off on thinking about that question a bit further. Before we get to suicide, you might say, the question that's going to entertain us for the remaining few weeks is this. How should one live, in light of the facts about death that I've been laying out in the semester up to this point? How should we live, in light of the facts about death? And one possible response, the last one we'll look at, is, what you should do, at least sometimes, is kill yourself. We'll come to that. We're going to spend the next couple of weeks asking ourselves different aspects of the question, what should our response be to the fact of our death and the specific features of death and the nature of death that we've been exploring? But the very first question i suppose we really need to ask is this. Should we be thinking about all this at all? Well, I realize that for you guys it's too late, right? It's sort of late in the day for students who have been through the better part of a semester thinking about the nature of death to argue, maybe, it wasn't such a good idea for you to take this class in the first place. But as theorists, we could be interested in the theoretical possibility that the right response is to not think about the facts of death at all. Look, in principle in principle I suppose there are three different reactions. So, I make various claims of the sort that I've been making about, "Well look, you know, we're just physical objects. When these objects break, we cease to exist. The objects don't get put back together," and so forth and so on. One possibility, of course, is simply to disagree with me about the facts. And so you--of course, if you do disagree I think you're mistaken, so I'll think of you as denying the facts, but all right, that's a possibility. Another possibility, the one I'll turn to a little bit later, is admit the facts and live accordingly. Of course, we haven't yet asked ourselves, how should you live if you recognize and take into account those facts? That's the question we'll turn to. But there's the middle possibility, which is not so much think about them and deny them, not so much think about them, accept them and act accordingly, but simply don't think about them. Maybe the best response to the facts of death is just put it out of your mind. Don't give it any thought at all. Now, on the one hand you might think, that can't possibly be the right response, the appropriate response. After all, how can it be appropriate to disregard, to put out of your mind, facts? Well, that all sounds very nice, but I think that claim has got to just be mistaken. There's nothing unacceptable or inappropriate or misguided about not thinking about all sorts of facts that you might have learned at some point or the other. Here's my favorite example of stupid facts I was forced to learn when I was younger-- state capitals, right? I've gotten pretty far in my life, and as far as I can tell I've never, ever, ever had to remember the capitals of the 50 states. So, I just don't think about it. Pretty much I think about it only once a year, when I'm giving this very lecture. I start asking, how many state capitals can I remember? And the answer is, really not all that many of them. Not thinking about those facts that I knew at one point-- just not all that objectionable. So, the mere fact, if it is a fact, suppose the facts about life and death are as I've described them. Until we say something more, it's not clear that we shouldn't just, all right, note it, store it away, and forget about it, just like the facts about the state capitals. That seems odd; that seems misguided. But why? What is it about the facts about life and death that seem to make it misguided to think we should just put them aside and pay no attention to them? Presumably because we're led to the thought, we're attracted to the thought, that the nature of death, the facts about death--whatever they are-- should have an impact on how we live. The appropriate way to live gets shaped, at least in part, by the fact that we're going to die, that we won't be around forever. If that's right, then it seems as though there'd be something irrational and inappropriate about simply disregarding those facts. Let me tell you two stories that might-- well, look, before I tell you the stories here's the other side. Suppose somebody said, "Yeah, it's true if I thought about the nature of death, the fact that the 50, 80, 90 years I've got on this Earth is all I'm going to have. If I thought about that fact, it would just be overwhelming. It would be crushing. I'd be unable to go on with my life." People sometimes claim that that's the case and, because of that, the right thing to do is to not think about it. You've read at this point, long since, Tolstoy's Death of Ivan Ilych. The people in the Tolstoy story seem to have put facts of mortality out of their mind. Why? Presumably because they think that facing it is just too crushing and overwhelming. So the way they cope with it--they think the appropriate response is put it aside, disregard the facts about death. Well, as I say, there seems to be something amiss about that reaction. That was certainly the point that Tolstoy was trying to get us to see. There's something wrong about lives, something inauthentic about lives that are lived without facing the facts of our mortality and living accordingly, whatever the appropriate responses might be. Here are two stories not having to do with death per se that may help us get a feel for the oddity of trying to disregard these facts. Suppose that you're on a hot date, or about to go out on a hot date, with Peggy Sue or, depending on your preferences, Billy Bob. And your roommate holds up an envelope and says, "Written in this envelope are certain facts about peggy Sue or Billy Bob. I'm not going to tell you what these facts are yet. They're in the envelope. But I'll give you the envelope and you can open it up and read them. But I do want to tell you this one thing. It is indeed the case that if you were to read these facts, if you were to think about these facts, if you were to know the things written down in the envelope, you would not want to go out with peggy Sue." And you say to yourself, well, let's see. Right now i want to go out with Peggy Sue, but if I knew these true-- It's not that you think, oh your roommate has made it up, that these are lies; these are slander. You really believe, and it is in fact the case that the things written down in the envelope are true. And so you know that if only you were to read these things in the envelope, you would change your mind and no longer want to go out with her. And so what you say is, "Don't show me the envelope." That seems odd. It doesn't seem like it makes sense. If there are things that would change your mind and you know that they would change your mind about your behavior, how can it be rational to disregard them? Here's another story. You're about to drink a milkshake, and your roommate comes rushing in and says, "I've got the lab report. I had my suspicions about the milkshake, and so I took a sample and I rushed it down to the lab. I've got the lab report." You're about to drink it, right, because you're thirsty, it's a hot day, you love milkshakes. And your roommate says, "Inside the envelope are facts about this milkshake that if--I promise you it is indeed the case-- if you knew these facts, you would not drink the milkshake anymore." And you say, "Oh, thank God. Don't open the envelope," and you drink the milkshake, disregarding the facts. That seems inappropriate. Well, if it really was true then that if only we faced the facts about our mortality that we would live life rather differently, how could it be reasonable for us to disregard those facts? Well, that's the puzzle. Or maybe we shouldn't call it a puzzle at all. Maybe the answer is, that just shows the disregard option is not really all that reputable. What we either have to do is deny the claims I'm made about the nature of death, or else go on to ask-- supposing they are true--how should we live in light of them? Maybe the disregard option just is one that we can't actually take on as an intellectually acceptable alternative. But I suspect that that's probably a little bit too quick, because really there are two different ways in which facts could influence our behavior. And if we're not careful we'll disregard this distinction, even though I think it's an important one. Here's the two ways. On the one hand, it could be that certain facts, if you knew them, would cause you to behave differently without actually giving you any reason to behave differently. That's possibility number one. Possibility number two is the facts change your behavior by giving you a reason to behave differently. Let me show you an example of the first possibility, because that's the one I think we may be overlooking when we assume that disregarding can't ever make any sense. So, there you are kissing, making out with Peggy Sue or Billy Bob-- whoever it is--and your roommate bursts in and says, "I have in the envelope certain facts such that if you were to think about them you would no longer want to kiss Peggy Sue, Billy Bob." Let me just tell you what the facts in the envelope are. They're certain facts about the nature of Peggy Sue's digestive system. Now, well, you're making out after having had dinner, and while you're sitting there making out, food is making its way down Peggy Sue's digestive tract, being turned into shit. And eventually it's going to be excreted. And if you started picturing to yourself the feces inside Peggy Sue's digestive tract, and the fact that she's eventually going to be wiping the feces off of her behind, you might find it difficult to continue to engage in making out with Peggy Sue. It's not so, now these are just facts, right? I didn't make any of these up, but there you are, as I'm talking about them, you're just being grossed out as I describe them. Now, do any of these facts about the digestive system make it inappropriate to kiss another human being? Well, of course not. But for all that, thinking about those facts make it rather difficult, while you're thinking about the facts, to continue enjoying kissing the person. So there are certain facts about the digestive tract such that if you think about them you can't do something, kiss the person. But for all that, it's not because you've got any good reason not to kiss the person. It's not that the facts about the human digestive process give you reason not to kiss her. They cause you to change you behavior without giving you any reason to change your behavior. So, when the roommate comes running in, holding the envelope, and says, "I have in this envelope certain facts such that if you read these facts, and thought about these facts, you would stop kissing this person," the question you should put to your roommate is, "Are these facts that would merely cause me to change what I'm doing, or are these facts things that would give me some good reason to change?" If these are facts about how Peggy Sue likes to kiss and tell, or then goes around and talks about who's a good kisser and who's a bad kisser, maybe that gives you a reason to not continue what you're doing. So the facts could be things that would give you reason to change your behavior. But the mere fact that they would change your behavior doesn't yet tell you whether they're reason-generating facts. If they're mere causes and not reasons, then maybe it's perfectly okay to disregard them. If your roommate comes in and starts trying to tell you facts about the human digestive system, you say, "Not now." Disregarding is sometimes the appropriate thing to do. Well, what about the facts about death? Are the facts about death things that it's appropriate to disregard? A bold claim would say, "Yes." A bold claim would say, "The facts about death, if I thought about them, would change my behavior, but not because it would give me a reason to change my behavior-- simply because it would influence my behavior." And, given that, we might say, better to not think about them. That would be the bold claim to make at this point. Suppose, for example, that, the right way to live, in light of the facts about death, is to live life to the fullest. But suppose if you think about death you just get too depressed and you can't live life to the fullest. It's not that the facts about death give you reason to stay in your room and sulk. It's just that the facts about death cause you to stay in your room and sulk. If that was the case, then disregarding, always disregarding, the facts about death might well be the appropriate response. Well, that would be a rather bold claim. I'm not inclined to believe that the bold claim is right. Should we conclude therefore that, no, you should always be thinking about the facts about death? No, i'm inclined to think that that other bold claim, on the other side, is probably mistaken as well. So there you are, one more time, one last time, making out with Peggy Sue or Billy Bob and your roommate comes in and starts trying to tell you about the fact that he's taken Shelly Kagan's class on death or he's been studying in some biology class, and he wants to tell you about how human bodies decay when they turn into corpses. As he begins to tell you this story, you start picturing Peggy Sue as a rotting corpse. Suddenly, you don't really feel like kissing her anymore. It's sort of like the digestive tract story. It's not that, as far as I can see, the fact that she's going to be a corpse gives you any reason not to kiss her. It's just that thinking about the fact that she's going to be a corpse causes you to not want to kiss her, not be able to enjoy kissing her. So, I'm inclined to think that the right position here is a kind of moderate one, a modest one. There are times and places for thinking about the facts of death. When you're kissing somebody-- that is not the time and that is not the place. The position that says, you should always have the fact of your mortality forever before your mind's eye--I think that's misguided. Similarly, though, anybody who says, you should never think about the facts of mortality and the nature of death I think that's misguided as well. There's a time and place. But that still leaves us with the question. All right, so suppose this is the time and place. If ever there was a time and place for thinking about the facts of death and how it should influence our life, it's right now, in a class on death. So, we still have to face the question, how should you live? What is the appropriate response to the facts about life and death? That's the question we have to turn to next time. 



 Chapter 21: 对死亡的恐惧


Last time, I distinguished between two ways in which thinking about the facts about the nature of death could influence our behavior. On the one hand, it could give us reasons to behave or respond differently, and on the other hand it could merely cause us to behave differently. Insofar as it just happens to be some fact about human psychology that we behave this way or that way, perhaps the appropriate way to deal with the facts of death would be to simply disregard them. I'm inclined to believe, however, that there are ways in which thinking about the facts would not merely cause us to behave one way rather than another but give us reason to behave one way rather than another. And that's the question that I want to then explore from here on out. In what circumstances, or in what ways, should we behave one way rather than another? So, I'm not merely going to draw on facts about how, as it happens, we behave. It could be that if you dwelled upon the facts about death, you would scream interminably until the moment you died-- taking a tip from Tolstoy. But that doesn't itself show that that's an appropriate response; that might just be a mere causal fact about how we're built. The question I want to ask is, how is it appropriate, in what ways is there reason, to react one way rather than another? Now as I say, the thought seems very compelling for most of us that there are ways in which it makes sense for the facts about death to influence how we live, what our attitudes are, what are emotions are. Kafka, for example, said the meaning of life is the fact that it ends. Nice little cryptic saying, as is typical of Kafka. But the suggestion, I suppose, is a fairly common one, that it's something deep about how we should live, that we're going to die, that our life will come to an end. And the question we want to then explore is how should the fact, how should recognizing the fact, that we're going to die, influence how we live? How should we respond to that fact? Now actually, the very first kind of behavior, quote/unquote behavior, that I want us to think about perhaps isn't strictly speaking a form of behavior at all. I rather have in mind our emotional response, because indeed one of the most common reactions to death, I suppose, is fear of death. Indeed, fear may in many cases be too weak a term an extremely strong form of fear-- terror of death is, I suppose, a very common emotional response to death. And what I want to do next is have us ask ourselves, well, is fear of death a rationally appropriate response? Now, the crucial word here is "Appropriate." I don't want to deny at all what I take to be the empirical fact that many people are afraid of death. How common a reaction that is, and how strong the fear is, I suppose that would be something for psychologists or sociologists to study. And I'm not interested in that question. I take it that fear of death is very common. I want to know, is fear of death an appropriate, a reasonable emotion? Now, in raising that question, I'm obviously presupposing the larger philosophical thesis that it makes sense to talk about emotions as being appropriate or inappropriate. We can ask not only what emotions does somebody have, but we can also ask what emotions should they have? Now, this point perhaps isn't an obvious one, so maybe it's worth dwelling on for a moment or two, before we turn to fear of death per se. What's another example of an emotion that's got some appropriateness conditions? So, in a moment I'll turn to asking, what are the conditions under which it's appropriate to be afraid of something? but to make the more general point, look, take something like pride; pride's an emotion. Under what conditions does it make sense to be proud of something? Well, I suppose at least two conditions jump out. First of all, the thing that you're proud of has to be some kind of accomplishment. If you were to say to me right now, "I'm really proud of the fact that I'm breathing," I'd look at you in a noncomprehending fashion because it doesn't seem to me that breathing is difficult in any way, doesn't count as an accomplishment, and as such I can't understand how or why you would be proud of the fact that you're breathing. Now, maybe if you suffered from asthma and you had to have gone through excruciating physical therapy in order to learn how to use your lungs after some accident or something; maybe if we told a story like that we could see how breathing naturally and normally would be an accomplishment, something to be proud of. But for all of us, I presume, it's not an accomplishment; hence it's not something that it's appropriate to be proud of. Even if we've got an accomplishment, that may not be enough. For something to be something that it makes sense for you to be proud of it, it's got to be in some way an accomplishment that reflects well on you. Now, the most straightforward cases are cases where it's your accomplishment, and the reason that pride makes sense is because you're the one who did this difficult thing. So, you got an A on your philosophy paper and you tell me that you're proud and I understand that; getting an A on a philosophy paper is an accomplishment, and if you wrote the paper then I understand why you're proud. Of course, if what you did was go on the Internet and go to one of those sites where you pay money and somebody else writes an A paper for you, well, I understand why maybe they should be proud that they've written a great philosophy paper, but I don't see how this reflects especially positively upon you. So again, there's a kind of appropriateness condition for pride, where the object or the event or the activity that you're proud of, or the feature, has to somehow reflect on you. Now, that's not to say that it's got to be your accomplishment, at least not in any straightforward, narrow sense. It makes sense, for example, to be proud of your children's accomplishments because there's the right kind of connection between you and your children. So, in some sense it's connected to you. And we can have cases where we wonder about whether or not the connection is tight enough or what exactly the nature of the connection has to be. Perhaps as an American you took pride when the Americans win some event at the Olympics or the Tour de France or what have you, and you say to yourself, "Well look, I didn't ride the bicycle but for all that I'm an American and an American won, I'm proud." And that makes sense; we can understand how you think the connection there is tight enough. On the other hand if you say, "Look, the Germans won the event in the Olympics and I'm really proud," and I ask, well, are you yourself German, do you have German heritage, did you contribute to the German Olympics support team? If none of that's true, then again the appropriateness condition doesn't seem to be satisfied. It doesn't make sense to be proud. All right, look, we could spend more time worrying about the conditions under which it makes sense to feel pride. But of course that's not really my purpose here. My purpose of bringing that in was just to try to make good on the thought that emotions do have requirements; not necessarily requirements for what you have to have in place in order to feel the emotion. It's a harder question whether all these things need to be in place in order to feel the emotion. But at least these things need to be in place in order for it to make sense for you to have the emotion, in order for it to be rational or reasonable to feel the emotion, in order for that emotional response to be an appropriate response to your circumstances or situation. So, let's ask ourselves, then, what are the appropriateness conditions for fear? Because armed with that set of conditions, we'll then be able to go on and ask, is it appropriate to feel fear of death? Now, three conditions come to mind when I think about this question, when I've thought about this question over the years. The first is this--and I suppose this first one's going to be fairly uncontroversial --in order to be afraid of something-- even though I slipped in this, to talk about what you need to have in order to feel fear, what I really mean is in order for it to make sense to feel fear-- the thing that you're afraid of has to be bad. If somebody were to say to me, "I'm afraid that after class somebody's going to give me an ice cream cone", again I'd look at them in noncomprehension. I'd say, "Why are you afraid of that? How could it make any sense to be afraid?" And again, it's not that somebody couldn't give you an answer. They'd say, "Oh I'm trying to lose weight but I'm so weak and if they give me an ice cream cone then I'll just eat it and that'll ruin my diet for the week," Well, then I'd understand. From that point of view an ice cream cone is a bad thing and so that first condition on fear would be satisfied. But if you don't have a story like that, if you're like most of us, most of the time, and an ice cream cone's a pretty good thing, a source of some passing but at least genuine pleasure, then you say, "How can you be afraid of having or getting or eating an ice cream cone?" It doesn't make sense. To be afraid of something, it's got to be bad. It's one of the reasons why we sometimes look askance at people who have various kinds of phobias-- fear of spiders or fear of dust or what have you, fear of bunnies-- and you think, how does this make any sense? It's this cute little bunny; it's not dangerous. And maybe there are poisonous spiders, but most of the spiders we run across here in Connecticut are not poisonous. Fear of spiders doesn't seem appropriate. It's not that people can't have this kind of emotional reaction, it's that it doesn't make sense. Maybe it's another matter if you live in Australia, where there's poisonous snakes and spiders and other insects everyplace. All right. So, condition number one: Fear requires something bad, as the object of your fear. I can fear getting a migraine, if I'm subject to migraines. I can't fear the pleasure of looking at a beautiful sunset. That's condition number one -bad object, something harmful. Condition number two is, there's got to be a nonnegligible chance of the bad state of affairs happening, of the bad object coming to you. It's not enough that it's a logical possibility for fear to be a reasonable reaction. There's nothing logically inconsistent or logically incoherent about the possibility that I will face my death by being ripped to pieces by Siberian tigers. It's not as though that's an inconsistent state of affairs. It's certainly logically possible, but it's so unlikely, it's so negligibly small a chance, that if anybody here is afraid that they'll be ripped to pieces by tigers, then I can only say the fear doesn't make any sense, it's not appropriate. Again, we can tell special stories where that might be different. Suppose you tell me that, oh, when you're not a student, your work study program, what you do is, you work as an animal trainer, or you're planning to work in the circus where you'll be training tigers, then I'll say, all right, now I suppose there's a nonnegligible chance you'll be mauled and killed by tigers. I understand it. But for the rest of us, I suppose, the chance of being killed by tigers is, well, it's not literally zero, but it's close to zero, it's negligible. And so, fear of being eaten by tigers or mauled to death by tigers doesn't make any sense. And once you get the point, of course, it would be easy to talk about a variety of other things that the chances are so small fear of being kidnapped by space creatures from Alpha Centauri, where I'll be taken back to the lab and they'll prod me before they dissect me alive without anesthetic. Yes, I suppose there's some possibility of that. It's not logically impossible. But again it's so vanishingly small a chance, and anybody who actually is afraid of that, the appropriate thing for us to say is that their fear is not appropriate. All right, so you need to have a chance of the bad thing, and it's got to be a large enough chance. And I suppose again there would be room for us to argue about how large a chance is large enough, but when you have vanishingly small chances then the fear doesn't make any sense. That's condition number two. Condition number three, I think, is somewhat more controversial, but for all that it still seems correct to me, and that's this. We need to have a certain amount of uncertainty in order to have fear be appropriate. You need to have some-- it's not clear how much-- but at least some significant amount of uncertainty about whether the bad thing will occur, and/or how bad the bad thing will be. To see the point, to see the relevance of this third condition, imagine that a bad thing was going to happen to you with a nonnegligible chance. Indeed, far from being so small that it's virtually not worth even considering, imagine that it's guaranteed that the bad thing is going to happen. So, there's a bad thing that's going to happen, and you know precisely how bad it is. So you've got certainty with regard to the fact that the bad thing is going to happen, and certainly with regard to the size of the bad thing. I put it to you that in circumstances like that, fear is not an appropriate emotional response. Suppose that what happens is this. Every day you come to school, to the office, whatever it is, and you bring a bagged lunch, and you put it in the office refrigerator. And you include, along with your lunch, a dessert; let's say a cookie. And every day at one o'clock, when you go to grab your lunch out of the refrigerator, you look inside and you see somebody has stolen your cookie. Well, it's a bad thing; it's not the worst thing in the world, but it's a bad thing to have somebody steal your cookie. And furthermore, this is more than a negligible chance. So, we've got condition one, condition two in place-- bad thing and a nonnegligible chance of it happening. In fact, not only is it not a negligible chance that it's happening- -guaranteed, it happens day after day after day after day. Bad thing, guaranteed. And you know precisely how bad it is. I put it to you, fear in that case doesn't make any sense. Mind you, there are other negative emotions that probably make sense, like anger and resentment. Who does this thief, whoever it is, think that he or she is, to be stealing your cookie? They don't have the right to do that! You can be angry, you can be resentful. You can be sad that you don't have a dessert, day after day after day. But you can't be afraid, because there's nothing here that it makes sense for you to be afraid of. Again, being a little sloppy, maybe you are afraid, but if so, fear doesn't make sense, when you know for a certainty that the bad thing is coming and how bad it is. Suppose that the thief strikes at random, taking different people's desserts from different bags at different times of the week, and you never know who he or she is going to steal from. Then you might be afraid that you'll be the person whose cookie got stolen. Or if cookie seems to you too silly an example, imagine that what happens is somebody breaks into dorm rooms. There's been a thief going around various dorms on campus and stealing the computer from the dorm room. Well there, fear makes sense; you're afraid that they'll steal your computer. Bad thing, nonnegligible chance, and lack of certainty. On the other hand, suppose what happens is, this is one of those thieves like you always have in the movies, where he's such a master thief, or she's such a master thief, that they take pride in their work, and so they announce it. They take out an ad in the Yale Daily News and they say, "On Wednesday, April 27th, I shall steal the computer from so-and-so's room." And it doesn't matter what precautions you take, something always happens, and that person's computer gets stolen. Well, again, you could be angry, you can be pissed, you can be annoyed, you can feel stupid that you didn't take adequate precautions. But when the ad appears, with your name, and that date, and all year the thief has always carried through on the announced theft, I put it to you, fear doesn't make any sense, because if you know exactly what the size of the harm is going to be, and you're guaranteed that the harm is coming, fear is no longer appropriate. Suppose that I have a little torture machine, a little pain generator, where I put your hand down and I hook it up to the electrodes and I crank the dial and I pull the switch, and you feel an electric shock. It makes sense to feel fear what the next shock is going to feel like, if the shocks vary in their intensity. But if the machine's only got one setting, on and off, and all the shocks feel exactly the same, and I've done it for you, "So look, okay, let me show you what it feels like; it feels like that." Oh, not comfortable. Let me show you what it feels like, it feels like that; over and over, 5, 6, 7, 8 times; we're doing some sort of weird psychology experiment here. Well, you know exactly that it's coming, you know exactly what it's going to feel like. Fear, I put it to you, doesn't make any sense. Suppose the experiment's over now, and you think--you've gotten your ten dollars and I refuse to let you go and I say, "I'm going to do it one more time, no worse than before." Well, you might not believe me and that might introduce the element of uncertainty and then perhaps fear would be appropriate. But if you believe me that one more pain exactly like the ones you felt before is coming, fear--anger makes sense, resentment makes sense, sadness that you're going to feel this pain perhaps makes sense-- but fear doesn't make sense. So, three conditions. You need to have it's something bad. You need to have on the one hand nonnegligible chance that the bad thing's going to happen, and you have to have a lack of certainty. If you've got certainty as to the nature of the bad and certainty that it's coming, then fear doesn't make sense. One of the points probably worth mentioning in passing-- even when fear does make sense, there's a kind of proportionality condition that we need to keep in mind as well. Even if there's a nonnegligible chance of the harm coming, and so fear is appropriate, it doesn't make fear appropriate if it's obsessive fear, horrendous fear, tremendous fear. Maybe some mild concern is all that's appropriate if the chances are small. Similarly, the amount of fear needs to be proportioned to the size of the bad. That's perhaps why the cookie example, you might think a lot of fear there's not appropriate because even if it comes, how bad is it? Loss of a cookie. All right, so there are some conditions that need to be met before fear is appropriate at all, and on the other hand even when fear is appropriate, it's still legitimate to ask, how much fear is appropriate? So, armed with all of this, let's now turn to the question, is fear of death appropriate, and if so, how much? And immediately we see we need to draw some distinctions. Well, what are we supposedly being afraid of when we are afraid of death? And two or perhaps three things need to be distinguished. The first thing you might worry about is the process of dying. Some people find that the actual process at the end of their life is a painful and unpleasant one. Yes, I've given the example of being mauled to death by tigers or eaten alive by tigers. Well, I imagine that would be a pretty unpleasant way to die. And so insofar as there is some nonnegligible chance that you will die a painful death, then I suppose there's some room for some--an appropriate amount--of fear. Of course, we then have to ask, well, what is the chance that you'll die painfully? I've already indicated for people in this room I rather imagine the chance of being mauled to death by tigers is vanishingly small. So, I think, no fear of that form of painful death is appropriate. And for that matter, I've got to suggest that I suspect that fear of dying through a painful operation by the aliens from Alpha Centauri is not appropriate either. Still, the sad fact of the matter is that there are people in the world who do suffer painful deaths, in particular, of course, because the number of diseases that might kill us off in their final stages are sometimes painful. Now, one of the interesting facts is that we could of course minimize or eliminate the pain by giving people adequate pain medication. And so, it comes as a rather unpleasant bit of news that most hospitals do not provide adequate pain medication, in many, many instances, at the end of life. Why? That's a whole other complicated question. But I suppose if somebody were to say to me that--look, I read the newspaper, there are studies done periodically about whether or not there's adequate pain medication at the end of life and the studies suggest, year after year, that no, we still don't in general provide adequate pain medication. If you were to say to me, "In light of that I've got some fear that this may happen to me," Well, I'd understand that. Again, if you said to me, "I can't sleep for fear that this is going to happen to me," I'd want to say, well, that sort of fear strikes me as disproportionate. But at any rate, I suppose that when people say that they're afraid of death, although some of them, in some moments, might have in mind, what they mean is that they're afraid of the process of dying, I take it that that's not actually the central fear that people mean to be expressing. People mean to suggest that they're afraid of death itself, they're afraid of being dead. And with regard to that, I want to suggest, I don't actually think the relevant conditions are satisfied. Look, let's think about what they were again. There was a certain amount of uncertainty. Well, of course, with regard to being dead there's no uncertainty at all. You're guaranteed that you're going to die. And indeed, condition number one, that the bad thing-- for fear to make sense the object of my fear has to be a bad thing. Well, let's ask ourselves, is being dead intrinsically a bad thing? It doesn't seem to me that it is. Of course, this all presupposes the positions about the nature of death that I argued for in the first half of this semester. There's nothing mysterious or unknown about death. Look, suppose you thought there was. Suppose you believe in the afterlife, or at least the possibility of an afterlife, and you're worried that you might go to hell. Well, then fear makes some sense. If there's a possibility, nonnegligible in your mind, that there'll be a painful experience after you die-- not guaranteed -if you're a bad enough sinner so that you're certain you're going to hell, then again I think condition number three isn't satisfied. But if like most of us you wouldn't know if you were a bad enough sinner or not, and so there's some nonnegligible chance of this bad thing, without certainly, well, somebody like that who says they're afraid of being dead, for fear that they might find themselves in hell, at least I understand that. But on the physicalist picture where death is the end, where when your body decays there's no experience at all, then it seems to me that the first condition on fear isn't satisfied. The badness of death after all, according to the deprivation account, is the mere absence of a good. And it seems to me the mere absence of a good is not the right kind of thing to be afraid of. Suppose I give you an ice cream cone, and you like it. You wish you could have a second ice cream cone. But I don't have a second ice cream cone to share with you. So you know that after the first ice cream cone is over, you won't have a second ice cream cone. That's a pity, that's a lack of something good. And now you're telling me, "I'm afraid; I'm afraid of the fact that there will be this period after the first ice cream cone is done in which I'm not getting a second ice cream cone. I'm afraid because of the badness of deprivation of ice cream." I say to you, deprivations per se are not the kind of thing to be afraid of; they're not bad in the right kind of way. So, if death is bad only or most centrally insofar as it's a deprivation of the good things in life, there's nothing bad there to be afraid of. Well, that doesn't mean there isn't anything here in the neighborhood. After all, we have to worry not just about the fact that we're going to die, we have to worry about when we're going to die. We might be certain that death is going to come, but what we're not certain that death is going to come a long time from now, as opposed to soon. So, perhaps the relevant thing to be afraid of is the possibility that you'll die soon. Consider an analogy. Suppose that you're at a party, it's a great party, you wish you could stay and stay and stay, but this is taking place back in high school, and what's going to happen is your mother is going to call at a certain point and tell you it's time to go home. Now, let's just imagine there's nothing bad about being at home; it's neutral. You just wish you could stay but you know you can't. If you know the call is going to come at midnight, guaranteed, then there's nothing to be afraid of. You might resent the fact that your mother is going to call you at midnight, be annoyed at the fact that she won't let you stay out till one o'clock like your other friends, but there's nothing to be afraid of. There, it's 11 o'clock and you're saying, "I'm terrified of the fact that the call's going to come at midnight; I know it's going to come." See, fear there doesn't make sense, because it doesn't have the relevant degree of uncertainty. You know exactly what's coming and you know for a certainty that it's coming; fear isn't appropriate. Well, suppose instead of what happens is a guarantee that your mother's going to call at midnight, what we've got is your mother's going to call sometime between 11 and 1. Now, some fear makes sense. Most of the time she calls around 12, 12:30; sometimes she calls at 1 for parties; occasionally she calls at 11. You're worried now, there's a nonnegligible chance she'll call at 11 rather than sometime later, 12 or 1 o'clock. There's a bad thing, some nonnegligible chance, and the absence of certainty. Now some degree of fear makes sense. And perhaps that's what we've got with regard to death. If so, we might say the crucial ingredient here, by virtue of which death is something that it's appropriate for us to be afraid of is because of the unpredictability. Even if we had variability we might not have unpredictability. That's a point that we touched upon previously. It's the unpredictability that leaves you in a position of not knowing whether death will come soon, or death will come late. Will you die at 20, will you die at 50, will you die at 80, or will you die at 100? It seems to me that if it weren't for the unpredictability, fear of death wouldn't make any sense at all. Given that we do have unpredictability, some fear of death might make sense; although again it's important to be clear about what it is that it makes sense to be afraid of. It's not being dead per se. I remain of the opinion that being dead per se is not the sort of thing it makes sense to be afraid of, once you've concluded that death is the end. The only thing that it might make some sense to be afraid of is that you might die too soon-- earlier rather than later. Of course, having noted that point, we then have to ask, well how much fear is appropriate? How great is the chance that you'll die too soon? Your fear needs to be proportioned to the likelihood. How likely is it that you will die in the next year, or five years, or for that matter 10 or 20 years? The fact of the matter is for most of you, almost all of you, the chances are very unlikely indeed; not quite negligible, but rather small. For a healthy 20-year-old, for example, the chances of dying in the next five or ten years are extremely small, in which case even if some slight fear might be called for, no significant amount of fear seems called for. So, if somebody were to say to me, "Look, the facts about death are so overwhelming that I'm terrified of death," all I can say in response is not, that I don't believe you, but for all that it seems to me terror of death is not an appropriate response. It doesn't make sense given the facts. Now, having said that, that doesn't mean that there may not be some other emotion, some other negative emotion that is appropriate. Fear of death strikes me as, for the most part, overblown; it's widespread, I suppose, but for the most part inappropriate. But that doesn't mean that--As I suggested before in working through some of these examples, sometimes anger makes sense; sometimes resentment makes sense; sorrow, regret, sadness, that may make sense. So, in having argued that for the most part fear of death does not make sense, I haven't yet given us any reason to think that there might not be other emotions, negative emotions, that do make sense. So let's ask. What about some of those other possible emotions? What negative emotion, if any, does it make sense to feel about death itself, the fact that you're going to die? Well, of course, look, it's also worth bearing in mind, since I've argued that immortality would be bad, the fact that you will die is not actually bad. It's good because it saves you from the unpleasant aspect of an eternal, dreary, dreadful immortal existence. Still, we might say, most of us, almost all of us, die too soon. So, what about that? We die before life has yielded up all the goods that it could have given us. So what is the appropriate negative emotional response here? Or is there one? I suppose the natural second suggestion is anger. You might say, look, maybe fear isn't right, isn't appropriate, but anger. I'm angry. I want to shake my fist at the universe and curse the universe for giving me only 50 years or 70 years or 80 years even 100 years, when the world is such a rich, incredibly fantastic place that it would take thousands of years or longer to exhaust what it has to offer. So, isn't anger an appropriate response? And again, I think the answer is not so clear that it is, because, like all the other emotions, anger itself has appropriateness conditions. In order for anger to make sense, well, here's condition number one. It seems to me it's got to be directed at a person, it's got to be directed at an agent, it's got to be directed at some thing that had some choice over what it was doing to you. So, when your roommate, whatever it is, spills coffee on your computer, destroying the hard drive or whatever it is, because they were careless, even though you told them previously to be more careful, anger makes sense. It's directed at your roommate, who's a person, who had some control over what they were doing. Your roommate's an agent. If you want to get angry at me for the grades that you receive in this class, well, at least condition number one makes sense; you're directing your anger at an agent, at an individual person who has some control over how I behave, how they behave. Condition number two, I suppose--this may not be all the conditions, but at least a second one is-- anger makes sense when, and only when, the agent has wronged you, has treated you in a way that it was morally inappropriate for them to treat you. If your roommate has been doing things that you don't like, but they haven't done anything wrong, anger doesn't make sense. When you are angry at them, you are revealing the fact that you think they've mistreated you. Mistreatment requires the notion of they've behaved toward you in a way that morally they shouldn't. All right, these strike me as two conditions that need to be in place in order for anger to be an appropriate emotional response. Of course, again, we no doubt feel anger in other cases, although typically when we're angry at inanimate objects it's because we've personified them. Your paper is due, you're rushing off to class, you're about to print it out, and your computer crashes, and you get angry at the computer. Well, what's going on there, I suppose, is you've personified the computer. You have fallen into the trap, understandable, natural, of viewing the computer as though it was a person who had deliberately chosen to fail right now, letting you down yet again. And I understand this sort of behavior; I do this sort of thing as well. But of course you can step back. At least, once your anger has subsided, you can step back and say, look, getting angry at your computer doesn't really make sense, because your computer is not a person; your computer is not an agent; your computer didn't have any choice or control. Suppose that-- take those two conditions and now ask ourselves, does it make sense then to be angry at the fact that we're going to die? And I suppose the answer is going to be, well, look, who is it, or what is it that you think is the cause of our mortality, or the fact that we only get our 50 or 80 years? Here's two crude, basic alternatives. You might believe in God, classic, theistic, conception of God, a kind of according to which God is a person who makes decisions about what to do. And God has condemned us to death. That's what happens in Genesis, God punishes Adam and Eve by making them die. All right, that's picture number one. Picture number two is you just think there's this impersonal universe, atoms swirling in the void, coming together in various combinations, but there's no person behind the scene controlling all of it. Let's consider the two possibilities. Possibility number one, God. Well, look, if you've got the God view, at least we satisfy the first of our appropriateness conditions. We can say, look; we can say, I'm angry at God for condemning us to a life that's short, that's so inadequate, relative to the riches that the world offers us. That's condition number one. But what about condition number two? Condition number two, after all, requires that God has mistreated us in giving us our 50 or 80 or 100 years. And is that the case? Has God wronged us? Has God treated us in some way that isn't morally justified? If not, anger at God, resentment of God, wouldn't make sense. Suppose your roommate comes into the suite and has a box of candy, and he gives you a piece of candy, and you enjoy it. And he gives you a second piece of candy and you enjoy it. And he gives you a third piece of candy and you enjoy it. And you ask for a fourth piece of candy, and he won't give it you. Has he wronged you? Has he treated you immorally? Does he owe you more candy? It's not clear that he or she does. But if not, then being angry--again, I would certainly understand it if you got angry, in the sense that it's a perfectly common enough response. But is anger an appropriate response to your roommate for giving you something, and then not giving you more? It's not clear that it is an appropriate response. The appropriate response actually seems to me to be, not one of anger, but gratitude. Your roommate didn't owe you any candy at all, and they gave you four pieces, or whatever it was, the number just was. You might wish you could have more, you might be sad that you can't have more, but anger doesn't seem appropriate. God doesn't, as far as I can see, owe it to us to give us more life than what we get. Well, suppose we don't believe in the God theory but the universe theory. Well then, of course ,even condition number one isn't satisfied. The universe is not a person, is not an agent, has no choice and control. And as such, again, it just seems to me that anger then-- I can lift my fist and curse the universe; of course, what I'm doing then is, I'm personifying the universe, treating the universe as though it was a person that deliberately decided to make us die too soon. But however common that response might be, it makes no sense rationally if the universe is not a person. It's just atoms swirling, forming various kinds of combinations. Anger at the fact that I'm going to die, or die too soon, doesn't make sense either. Well, what about sorrow? Maybe I should just be sad at the fact that I'm going to die too soon. And I think some emotion along that line does make sense. The world's a wonderful place. It would be better to have more of it. I'm sad that I don't get more, that I'm not going to get more. But having had that thought, I immediately find myself with another thought. Although it's a pity I don't get more, I'm extremely lucky to have gotten as much as I get. The universe is just this swirling mass of atoms, forming clumps of various kinds of things, and dissolving. Most of those atoms don't get to be alive at all. Most of those atoms don't get to be a person, falling in love, seeing sunsets, eating ice cream. It's extraordinarily lucky of us to be in this select, fortunate few. Let me close then with an expression of this thought. This is from Kurt Vonnegut's book, Cat's Cradle. This is a kind of prayer that one of the characters in the novel says- -is supposed to say--at the deathbed. God made mud. God got lonesome. So God said to some of the mud, "Sit up." "See all I've made," Said God. "The hills, the sea, the sky, the stars." And I, with some of the mud, had got to sit up and look around. Lucky me, lucky mud. I, mud, sat up and saw what a nice job God had done. Nice going God! Nobody but you could have done it God! I certainly couldn't have. I feel very unimportant compared to You. The only way I can feel the least bit important is to think of all the mud that didn't even get to sit up and look around. I got so much, and most mud got so little. Thank you for the honor! Now mud lies down again and goes to sleep. What memories for mud to have! What interesting other kinds of sitting-up mud I met! I loved everything I saw . It seems to me that the right emotional response isn't fear, it isn't anger, it's gratitude that we're able to be alive at all. 



 Chapter 22: 如何面对死亡


At the end of last class, I quoted some words from Kurt Vonnegut, a kind of deathbed prayer confession that he'd written in one of his novels in which the basic gist of the prayer is to express gratitude. Whatever the content of your life, the fact that at least you've been able to live at all --As he put it, most mud isn't lucky enough to sit up. He feels lucky to have been some of the sitting-up mud. He loved everything he saw. When I read that quote, I did not know that Kurt Vonnegut had died the night before. Immediately after the class ended, a visitor to the class brought this fact to my attention. So, I can't pass without commenting on that death, and just remark that I hope that to the very end, Kurt Vonnegut, who lived until he was 84, realized how lucky he was to be some of the sitting-up mud. The question I want to turn to now is this. So, we've been going over the various facts about the nature of life and death. And the question then is, how should we live, in light of the fact that we're going to die? Previously, we've talked about what emotional response we should have to that. And I've argued, as I just reminded us, that although perhaps the most common reaction is one of fear or terror at death, it may in fact be that we should be grateful and consider ourselves lucky that we were able to have had life as well--life at all. But how, then, should we live in light of the fact that we're going to die? And the immediate answer that comes to mind seems almost like a joke. I want to say, well, we should be careful, given that we can die, that we will die. There used to be a TV show, a cop show called Hill Street Blues. The show began every day with the sergeant going over the various crimes and investigations that were going to fill up the day's episode. And he'd always end, as he sent off his police, the cops. He'd end by saying, "Be careful" Or "Be careful out there." But the particular kind of care that I have in mind isn't just this pure fact, that if you're not careful, you won't notice that the car's coming down the street and you'll hit by the car and that'll be the end. The fact that we're going to die intuitively seems to require a particular kind of care, because, as we might put it, you only go around once, right? You don't get to do it again. And so, it seems as though the fact that we're mortal, the fact that we've got a finite lifespan, requires us to face the fact that intuitively we can blow it. We could do it wrong. Now, the nit-picky part of me wants to point out that it can't be mortality, per se, that has this implication. Even if we lived forever, we could still do it wrong. After all, whatever it is you've filled your life with, with an immortal infinite life, there's still going to be the particular pattern of actions and activities that you engage in. And that particular pattern could still be one that wasn't the best pattern that was available to you. So, the possibility of having blown it, of having lived the wrong kind of life, is a possibility that's going to be true of us, whether or not we're mortal. And yet, for all that, it seems as though mortality adds an extra risk, an extra danger of blowing it. Look, suppose we lived forever and just have a kind of simplistic example. You might say, imagine somebody who spends his eternity counting the integers--1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Well, that might not be as valuable as an eternity spent doing something else, let's say, doing more complicated math. But still, if you've spent a million years or a billion years counting the integers and then realized that was sort of pointless, you could always start over by doing more interesting, more deep, more worthwhile math. The immortality gives you a chance of starting over. It gives you the possibility of do-overs. We might then worry that what's especially bad about death, the fact that we're mortal, is that it robs us of the chance of do-overs. But of course, that's not quite right either. Even if you don't live forever, you live 80 years or 100 years, you have the chance to reappraise your life at the age of 20 or 30 or 50 and decide you need to change course. So, it's not exactly as though the possibility of do-overs disappears by death itself, via death itself. Still, the thought that death comes when it does seems to push us in the direction of thinking we've still got to be very careful because, of course, given that we're mortal, we have only a limited period of time in which to do the do-overs. There are two kinds of mistakes, really, that we might catch ourselves in. We might discover, on the one hand, that we made some bad choices in terms of what we were aiming for. And on the other hand, we might find even if we made the right choices in terms of our goals, we flubbed it in terms of actually accomplishing what we were trying to accomplish. And so we literally have to start over again, and try again. So, there's two kinds of care that we have to take. We have to be careful in our aims and we have to be careful in our execution of our aims, because we have, as it were, a rather limited amount of time to do it over. Now, again, the nitpicky part of me wants to say strictly speaking, it's not the fact that we are mortal, per se, that all by itself means we have to be especially careful. After all, suppose there just weren't all that many things worth doing. And suppose they weren't all that complicated, all that difficult to do well. Suppose there were only five things worth doing. And even if you couldn't necessarily do every single one of them right the first time out, at most it would take two or three tries. And by a try I mean maybe an hour or two. Well, that would be a pretty impoverished world that could only offer us that much. But after all, if that was the way the world worked and we had a hundred years, we wouldn't really have to worry all that much about being careful. We'd have plenty of time to aim for each of the five things worth having and plenty of time to get each one of the five things right. A hundred years of life would be more than enough. We wouldn't have to be careful. So, it's not just the fact that we're mortal that requires us to be careful. It's the fact that we have a relatively short span of life relative to how much there is worth aiming for, and how complicated and difficult it can be to get those things and get them right. It's because of the fact that there's so much to do and doing it properly that we have to be careful. We just don't have enough time to flail around, try a little of this, try a little of that. Somebody who lives like that may well find that the things they aimed for weren't really the best choices. You don't have to decide that these things weren't worth having at all, given the relatively short period of time we've got. We've got the extra burden of deciding what are the things most worth going after. And we have to face the prospect, the chance, that we'll look back and discover that we didn't make the best choices there. We aimed for the wrong things, not necessarily things that weren't worth having, but given the limited number of things we were going to be able to fill our lives with, in that sense, the wrong choices. And we may discover as well that we were not sufficiently careful, attentive in how we tried to achieve these things. Because it's not as though--although given the way life is, you've got the chance for do-overs, you don't have time for a whole lot of do-overs. And so what death forces us to do is, to be careful. An analogy that comes to mind here is an artist who goes--a musician who goes into a recording studio. And look, he can start trying to record his songs to cut an album. And he may only have a certain number of songs in his repertoire. And so if he's got a long enough period of time, a month in the recording studio, he's got plenty of time, or she's got plenty of time, to sing a couple of songs. Maybe these wouldn't be the best things to record. Let's give it a try and we'll see. Didn't get it right the first take. Let's record it again. Let's try it a third time. Let's try it a fourth time. If you've got enough time, it's less pressing to get clear before you start, or as you're going along, what are the songs I should try to record, and can I get it on one take, or at most two? But if instead of having a month in the recording studio, you've got only a week in the studio, or a day in the studio, suddenly everything's much more pressing. Time is much more precious. You've got to decide early on just which are the songs that it makes sense to record? And yeah, there are some other songs, but these seem to be the better choices. And when you record them, you can't be as careless and inattentive as you try to get them down. You've got to try to get it right the first time, or at worst, the second time. That's, it seems to me, the situation we find ourselves in, not just given the fact that we die, but, we might say, given how incredibly rich the world is, how many things it offers us, how many choices we have in terms of what's worth going after. But for many of these things, given how difficult they are to accomplish, although we've got the chance for do-overs, both in terms of changing our mind about what we should be aiming at, and trying again, for the things we have aimed at, we've got to be careful. The fact about our death requires paying attention. It requires care. Well, having said that, of course, the immediate question then, is all right, so I'm paying attention. I'm trying to be careful. What should I do with my life? How shall I--What should I fill it with? We've, previously in the class, talked about the possibility that being alive, per se, may have some value. But above and beyond whatever stand we take on that, it's certainly also the case that part of what adds to the value of our lives are the contents of our lives. And so we need to ask, well, what kinds of contents should we try to fill our lives with? Now, I won't try to answer that. To ask the question, what are the things really worth going after in life? is to come up to the edge of asking, well, just what is the meaning of life? What's really worth going after? And although that is indeed an important, perhaps the important question, it's the question, I think, for a different class. And so having come close to the edge of that question, I'm going to now back away from it. But still, it seems we might say, in broad strokes, there are two different strategies that we could adopt. And it's worth at least pausing to think about these two strategies. Strategy number one says given that you've only got a finite amount of time--Actually, the basic underlying thought behind both strategies is just this. We haven't got much time. Pack as much as you can into life. Pack as much as you can in. But there are two basic strategies about how do you put that idea into practice. And strategy number one says given the dangers of failure if you aim too ambitiously, you should settle for the kinds of goals that you're virtually guaranteed that you'll accomplish. The pleasures of food, company, sex, ice cream. One of the paper topics asks you to reflect on the philosophy, "Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow you die." Well, that's one of the strategies. We're going to be dead tomorrow. And so while we're here, let's try to pack in as much as we can, by going for the things that we've got a very high chance of actually accomplishing. Strategy number two says that's all well and good. You've got a pretty high chance of succeeding at that. The trouble with strategy number one is the goods that you can achieve, the sort of sure thing goods are small. They're rather small potatoes, as things go. Some of the most valuable goods in life are things that don't come so readily, don't come with guarantees of achieving them. You might want to write a novel, compose a symphony, or for that matter raise--marry and raise a family. Some of these things, strat--fans of strategy number two argue, these things are the most valuable things that life can offer us. So that a life filled with these larger goods is a more valuable life than a life filled with the small potatoes goods. I suppose fans of the "Eat, drink, and be merry" Strategy don't like to call those "Small potatoes goods," but that's the kind of language that might be offered by fans of strategy number two. And it seems to me that as a claim about which life, if only you had it, if you had a guarantee-- If God were going to say, "Look, which life do you want? I promise you'll get it. The life filled with food and drink or the life filled with accomplishment?" --perhaps most of us would say well, it's the life filled with accomplishment that's the more valuable life. The trouble, of course, is, the life with the greater accomplishments, the life aiming for greater accomplishments, is also a life with a greater chance of failure. You aim for writing the great American novel and ten years later, you still haven't finished it. Twenty years later, you decide you don't have it in you to write the great American novel. You try to produce a business and it goes under. So, what's the right strategy to take? I suppose many of us would be inclined to say, well, the third strategy. There's a third strategy that's the obviously right thing to do, which is, get the right mixture. Aim for a certain number of--what should we call them? Large potatoes. Aim for a certain number of the large accomplishments, because if you do manage to get them, your life will have more value. But also throw in a certain sprinkling of the smaller things, where you're at least assured of having gotten something out of life. Well, that's all well and good as well, but it just now brings us to the next question. What is the right mixture, after all? Well, I'm not going to try to answer that one either. But again, those of you who choose the topic, the "Eat, drink, and be merry" Question, basically I'm inviting you, in that topic, to reflect on that question. Here's a different thought. The entire, as I said, the underlying thought behind the go-for-the-big-things, go-for-the-small-things, was pack it all in. The underlying thoughts seem to be, look, as long as you've got a life that's got valuable contents, the more, the better. You might say here's common ground between the two strategies-- the more, the better. Now previously, we've--I've argued that immortality would not actually be a good thing. Eventually rich and incredible as the world is, eventually, the goods of life would run out and immortality would be dreadful. But having said that, that's not to suggest that we--most of us--come remotely close to that condition. For most of us, it's certainly true that dying at 30 deprives you of goods that would have come to you, if only you'd lived to 40. And dying at 40 deprives you of goods that would have come to you if only you'd lived to 50 or 60 or 80. So, one thing that we're inclined to agree is, other things being equal, the longer your life, the better. So here's a life, 50 years long. And suppose you live it with a certain amount of value in your life, 100 value points, whatever that is, whatever the--however our units of measuring just how good a life is. We'd say, look, better to have a life at that value, instead of going through 50 years, went for 100 years. Fair enough. We might say, we all agree, don't we, that quantity of life's a good thing. And that does seem plausible. But at the same time we'll want to immediately say quantity of life may matter, but it's not the only thing that matters. Quality of life matters as well. And again, that point's fairly uncontroversial. If you had to choose between your life of 50 years at 100 value points or 50 years at whatever that is, 130 value points, you'd rather have the second life. The length of life isn't the only thing we care about. The overall quality of your life is something we care about as well. And this, of course, is another topic that we've talked about previously. Just what is it that goes into making a life better than another? So, we now see, summing it up, yeah, got to pay attention to quality, got to pay attention to quantity or duration. Of course, the reason I just corrected myself is because you might say, if you want to think about it mathematically, it all is just a matter of quantity. As long as when we measure quantity, we bear in mind we need to measure not just the length of the life, but the height of the box. So, the area of the box here is 50 x 100 units, so whatever that is, that's 5,000. I'm going to get another giggle here, right. Imagine our little units. It's a quality, one unit of quantity--one unit of quality for a year. So, it's a quality year unit, whatever it is, 5,000 units. Here 6,500. You might say, look, we can capture the thought that the duration of your life matters, the quality of your life matters, by multiplying the two together. And without getting hung up on the numbers, as though there was any kind of precision here, the underlying thought's fairly clear. The area of the box represents the overall quality-- the overall quantity that you managed to cram into your life in your 50 years. And we could start measuring different kinds of lives. We might start worrying about well, look, suppose I could live 50 years at 130 or I could live, whatever it is, 100 years at some other number that's a little bit less. We might say, oh, less quality, but longer quantity, longer duration, more valuable life filled in that last box. We see how it goes. But the question we need to ask is--so, if we've got this more rich sense of quantity, where we multiply the duration of the life times the how good a life you're having while you've got it, does that give adequate place to what we think is valuable? Does that give adequate place to quality in life? Let me draw some different boxes, some different possible lives to choose between. Suppose you had a nice long life, 150 years. Again, just for the sake of concreteness, we assign 50 quality points. So, the area is 7,500. Let's suppose, so you can get a feel for this, let's suppose that the best life lived on earth so far was worth a 10. So this is an incredible life, to be a 50. And you get it for 150 years. A very nice life. Now, compare it with this life. Suppose that this life isn't really all that good in terms of how well off you are at any given time. It's plus one. Zero would be a life not worth having, though no worse than nonexistence. Negative numbers would be lives presumably that would be you're better off dead. This life is just barely worth having. It's plus one. But it's a very, very, very long life, so long that I couldn't draw it to scale. That's why we've got the "..." In the middle. Suppose it goes on for 30,000 years. Well, the math here is pretty easy. 30,000 times one is 30,000 in terms of the area. Okay. So, trying to choose between these two lives. Life A or Life B? In terms of quantity, our enriched notion of quantity, where you measure the length of the life times the height of the box, Life B's got more quantity of what matters-- 30,000 versus 7,500. And yet, most of us, when we think about this choice, do not find B to be a preferable life, even though the quantity of value-- Just suppose we could measure quantity of whatever the goods are that we've got crammed into our life. Well, this has very, very, very small amounts stretched over a very long time. The quantity's larger, but Life A seems preferable. Now, for any--at least, this may not be true for everybody, but for those of us who share that thought, you might say quantity isn't all it's about. Or when we try to take quality into account, it wasn't so much that we couldn't measure it, it's that if you reduce the importance of quality into, fold it into quantity, so that what it's all about is the total amount that you're getting, well the total amount's bigger in B than A. If you don't think B's a better life, that suggests that totals aren't what it's all about. Well, what else might we then choose between with regard to A and B? Well, the natural response is to say, even though Life A is shorter, it attains a kind of peak, a kind of height that isn't approached anyplace in Life B. And perhaps, then, in evaluating lives and choosing between rival lives, we can't just look for the quantity of good, we have to look at the peaks. We have to look at the heights. In choosing between lives, it's important to think not just about how much did you pack in, total, but what were the greatest goods that you had or accomplished in your life? And perhaps, then, we should conclude, quality can trump quantity. Perhaps with the right quality in place, quantity becomes of secondary importance. Yeah, it might be that if we could have a longer life where we achieved great things, rather than a shorter life where we achieved great things, better to have the longer life. Quantity might matter, too, as long as we think the quality's what matters the most. But a more radical version of the theory would say, actually, quality's all that matters. The peaks are all that matter. That, at any rate, is the position that gets expressed by Hlderlin in the poem "To the Parcae," to the fates. That was in one of the essays that I had you read. But let me read that now. "To the Parcae." A single summer grant me, great powers, and a single autumn for fully ripened song that, sated with the sweetness of my playing, my heart may more willingly die. The soul that, living, did not attain its divine right cannot repose in the nether world. But once what I am bent on, what is holy, my poetry is accomplished: Be welcome then, stillness of the shadows' world! I shall be satisfied though my lyre will not accompany me down there. Once I lived like the gods, and more is not needed. Hlderlin is saying he doesn't care about quantity at all. If he can accomplish something great, if he can ascend to the heights and do something great with his poetry, that's enough. Once he's lived like the gods, more is not needed. So, in thinking about what we want to do with our lives, it's not enough to have the kind of theory that we've begun to sketch in previous weeks, where we think about what are the various things worth having in a life? we also have to address this question of quality versus quantity. Is quality only important insofar as it gets folded into producing greater quantity? Or does quality matter in its own right as something that's worth going for, even when it means a smaller quantity? And if quality does matter, does quantity matter as well? Or is, indeed, quality all that matters? Is Hlderlin right when he says once I've lived like the gods, more is not needed? Now, Hlderlin, I imagine, in thinking about why that kind of life is the best kind of life he could aspire to, is thinking, in part, about the lasting contribution that his poetry makes. There's a sense in which, when we think about having done things like that, we feel that we attain a kind of immortality. We live on through our works. And so the next question I want to turn to in thinking about strategies of how to live in light of the fact of, in terms of facing our mortality is, well, maybe a kind of immortality is worth going after. Or maybe, at the very least, we can take a kind of comfort in thinking that we have or can attain a kind of immortality. I emphasize the word "Kind," Of course, because strictly speaking, if you live on through your works, it's not as though you are literally living on. It's semi-immortality or quasi-immortality. I suppose people who don't believe in it would prefer to call it pseudo-immortality. Actually, this reminds me of a joke. Here's a Woody Allen joke. "I don't want to be immortal through my work; I want to be immortal through not dying." Well, as you know, previously I've argued that genuine immortality, unending life, would not be a good thing. But still, many of us aspire to this kind of semi-immortality. And actually, it can take, I think again, two broad forms. Sometimes people want to say there's a sense in which, although it's not as though you're literally living on, there's something like that going on, insofar as a part of you continues. If I have children, then literally some of my--in my case, there's a male--one of my cells continues. And then their cells continue in their children and their cells continue in their children. If you think of an amoeba splitting and splitting, and splitting and splitting again, part of the original amoeba could be there for many, many, many generations. Some people take comfort in the thought that, literally speaking, a part of them will continue, if not through cells through my offspring, perhaps at least my atoms get recycled, get used again. And so I get absorbed into the universe, but I never disappear. Some people take comfort in that thought. The German philosopher Schopenhauer thought that this should reduce somewhat the sting of death. He said, "But it will be asked, how is the permanence of mere dust, of crude matter, to be regarded as a continuance of our true inner nature?' " And he answers, Oh! Do you know this dust then? Do you know what it is and what it can do? Learn to know it before you despise it. This matter, now lying there as dust and ashes, will soon form into crystals when dissolved in water. It will shine as metal; it will then emit electric sparks? It will, indeed, of its own accord, form itself into plant and animal; and from its mysterious womb it will develop that life, about the loss of which you in your narrowness of mind are so nervous and anxious. Well, that's a very moving passage, but I have to say, I don't buy it. I don't find any comfort at all in the thought that my atoms will still be around getting reused into something else. So, this first kind of semi-immortality, where you take comfort in the thought that literally there are parts of you that will continue, this strikes me as a kind of desperate striving, desperate reaching for straws. Perhaps in Schopenhauer's case, leading him to delude himself into thinking, "Oh, it's not so bad that I'm going to die and going to die soon. At least my atoms will still be around." It doesn't work for me. There's a second sort of approach, though, where it's not so much that you're supposed to be comforted by the thought that your parts will continue to last after you, but that your accomplishments will continue to last after you. Hlderlin writes poetry, which we're still reading some 200 years later. You can write a novel which can be read for 20 or 50 or 100 or more years. You might make some contribution to math or philosophy or science, and 50 or 100 years later, people could still be talking about that philosophical argument or that mathematical result. You might have other kinds of accomplishments. You might build a building that will last after you. Stone cutters, I've read interviews with stone cutters who take a kind of pride and comfort in the thought that long after they're gone, the buildings that they helped build will still be there. You might try to build a company that will last after you die. Or, for that matter, you might take pleasure and comfort in the accomplishment of having raised a family. Here, not so much the thought that some of your cells are in your offspring, but rather the thought that to have raised another decent human being is a nontrivial accomplishment, something worth having done with your life. And that accomplishment continues after you're gone. Well, what should we think about this second group of approaches to attaining semi-immortality? I've got to say that I'm of two minds when I think about them. Unlike the dust and the atoms stuff, where I just think you're deluding yourself, I find myself drawn to this second set of thoughts. I find myself tempted by the thought that there's something worth doing about producing something that continues for a while. That it's significant. And even if my life here on earth is a short one, if something that I've accomplished continues, my life is the better for it. That's Hlderlin's thought, I suppose. And it's a view that appeals to me. I suppose it explains, in part, why I write philosophy, in the hopes that the things I write might still be read 20 years after I die, or 50 years or, if I'm so lucky, 100 years after I die. Well, in certain moods, perhaps in most moods, I'm drawn by that thought. But in other moods, I've got to confess, I'm skeptical of it. I remind myself of Schopenhauer writing his little passage, his Ode To Dust, and I find myself saying, just like Schopenhauer was so desperate that he deludes himself into thinking, "Oh, it doesn't matter that I'm about to turn into dust. Dust is really, really important," I'm just deluding myself as well, when I think there's something grander, something significant, something valuable about having made an accomplishment, having achieved something that continues beyond me. So in certain moods, at least, I find myself thinking that I've just deluded myself. But that's only certain moods. And at least most of the time, I find myself in agreement with Hlderlin. Not necessarily in thinking quantity doesn't matter at all. To have written one great work is all you need and more great works doesn't add anything-- that strikes me as going too far. But at least to have done something significant that abides, that does seem to me to add to the value and significance of my life. Well, let me mention an entire different approach. I'm going to give very, very short shrift to this last approach, but it's probably worth mentioning as well. The entire assumption of all the lines of thought that I've been discussing so far today have in common the underlying belief that the way to deal with the fact that we live and then we're dead is to try to make the life that you've got as good as possible, as valuable as possible, to pack as much into it as you can, even though there's room for disagreement about what's the best strategy for doing that. The picture is one in which we say we can't do anything about the loss of life, so the right response is to make the life that we've got as valuable as it can be, to see it as valuable as it can be. But there's a rather different approach. That alternative approach says, yes, we're going to lose life and that's horrible. But it's only horrible insofar as you think of life as something that it's bad to lose. After all, if we were to decide that life wasn't really a valuable gift, if it wasn't really something worth embracing, and something that we could turn into something full of value, then its loss wouldn't actually be a loss. That's a point we've seen before, right? The central badness of death is explained in the depravation account. You are deprived of the fact that you could have had more life that would have been worth having overall. But if life isn't worth having overall, then its loss is not a bad thing, but a good thing. The trick, then, isn't to make life as valuable as it could be, but rather to come to recognize that on balance, life isn't positive, but negative. I know that what I'm about to say has a kind of Classics Illustrated simplicity to it, and it's a bit of an over-exaggeration, but in gross terms, we might say the first general outlook-- that life is good and so the loss of it is bad and so the answer is make as much of it as we can while we've got it-- you might say that is, in broad strokes, the western outlook. And in broad strokes, the notion that life isn't really as good as we take it to be, but is, in fact, bad overall, perhaps it's oversimplification to call it the eastern outlook, but at least it's an outlook that gets more expression typically in eastern thought than in western thought. Foremost example of this second outlook is, I suppose, Buddhism. Four noble truths in Buddhism. The first noble truth is that life is suffering. Buddhists believe if you think hard about the underlying nature of life, you'll see that everyplace there is loss. There is suffering. There is disease. There is death. There is pain. Sure, there are things that we want and, if we're lucky, we get them. But then we lose them and that just adds to the suffering and the pain and the misery. On balance, life isn't good. First noble truth, life is suffering. And so, armed with this estimation, what Buddhists try to do is to free you from attachment to these goods, so that when you lose them, the loss is minimized. And indeed, Buddhists try to free you from what they take to be the illusion of there being a self. There is no me to lose anything. Death is terrifying insofar as I worry about it being the dissolution of myself. If there is no self, there's nothing to dissolve. It all makes sense-- and I have tremendous respect for Buddhism-- it all makes sense, given the thought that life is suffering. But for better or for worse, I'm a child of the west. I'm a child of the Book of Genesis, where God looks on the world and says, "It's good." For me, at least, the strategy of minimize your loss by viewing the world as negative, is not one that I can be at rest with. For me, life can be good. And so the choices for me, and I suppose for most of us, remain among the strategies with which I began. How is it that we can most make our lives valuable? What is it that we can do that will allow us, with Hlderlin, to say, "once we lived like the gods"? 



 Chapter 23: 自杀(一)：自杀的合理性


Last time, we talked about how you should live your life, in light of the fact of our--your mortality. How does the fact that we will die-- how should that affect the way that we live? What we're going to turn to now, our final topic for the semester, is the flip side. The fact of our mortality raises the question as to whether or not we should put an end to our life. Strictly speaking, I suppose it's not the fact that we're mortal, per se, it's one of those extra features of death that I've discussed previously, the variability of death. And more particularly still, the fact that we can control how long we live. We face the possibility of ending our life earlier than it would end otherwise. That's suicide, of course. And so our final topic is, under what circumstances, if any, does suicide make sense? Under what circumstances, if any, is it an appropriate thing to do? Now, it's a fairly widespread feature of our culture that suicide is looked upon with such a mixture of disdain, fear, finding it offensive, that it's very hard, often, to think clearly and discuss the topic clearly. Most people think it's either that you've got to be crazy to kill yourself. The very fact that you are contemplating suicide is evidence that you're crazy. And if you're not crazy, then it shows that you're immoral. Suicide is clearly never, never right, the right thing to do. So, what I want to propose is that we take some time and look at the questions on both sides with a fair bit of care. And the very first thing to do, I think, in thinking about the topic of suicide, is to distinguish questions of rationality from questions of morality. That is, I want us to take a look at, initially, the question, under what circumstances, if ever, would suicide be the rational thing to do? And then later turn to the question, when, if ever, would suicide be a morally legitimate or a morally permissible or morally acceptable thing to do? In posing this distinction, I'm obviously presupposing that these questions can come apart, or at least they need to be examined separately. Questions of rationality on the one hand, and questions of morality on the other. These are both questions about oughts, as we might put it. They're evaluative questions. But at least most people are inclined to think that we are drawing on different evaluative standards when we raise the one set of questions, as opposed to when we raise the other. In many cases, no doubt, rationality and morality go hand in hand. And there are philosophical views about the nature of rationality and the nature of morality, according to which they always go hand in hand. But many of us are inclined to think that they can come apart. Take, for example, given the season of the year that it is, consider doing your income taxes or, more particularly still, cheating on your income taxes. The rate at which income tax forms get audited is very, very slight. And so--and the fines tend to not be especially egregious, even if you do get caught. So that from a rational point of view, many of us might think it might well be a rational decision to cheat. You're not likely to get caught. Even if you do get caught, how bad's the fine anyway? But even if we were to agree that it was rational to cheat, most of us would then immediately want to follow that remark up by pointing out that doesn't at all mean that it's morally acceptable to cheat on your income tax. There's a case perhaps where you're morally required to do something that you're not rationally required to do. Or, take a choice from the other point of view. There you are, trying to decide between--there you are, trying to decide between your various choices of college. And you've gotten into Yale on the one hand, and perhaps some crummy school, your second-rate backup school, on the other. And you're trying to decide what to do there. Well, you might think to yourself, morally I have no obligations here. There's no particular obligation, moral requirement, to go to the better school rather than the worse school. But for all that, it would be irrational of me, perhaps, to go to the worse school. So there's a case where there's no moral requirement, but there's a rational requirement. Again, we could debate the details of the two examples, but the point's just to show that, in principle at least, on the face of it, these two questions can come apart. Sometimes it's rationally acceptable to do something, but it's immoral. Sometimes it's morally acceptable to do something, but it's irrational. So in thinking about suicide, we need to pose the two questions, one after the other. So, let's start with the question about the rationality of suicide. When, if ever, is suicide a rational decision to make? Now, once again, the first thing I want to do in thinking about the rationality of suicide is to distinguish two different issues, or two different questions. The first question is going to be this. When, if ever, would it be true that you are better off dead? Could it be the case that your life is going so badly that you'd be better off dead? Second question, assuming that the answer to the first question is, under such and such circumstances, you would be better off dead, we still have to ask, could it ever be rational for you to trust your judgment that this is one of those cases in which you're better off dead? Could it ever be rational for you to kill yourself? Conceivably, the answer to the second might be no. All right. So, the question was this. It's conceivable you might have a thought like the following. In those circumstances in which life has gotten so horrible that you'd be better off dead, you can't think clearly. And the very fact that you can't think clearly would entail that you shouldn't trust your judgment that you are in one of those cases. Whether that's a good argument or not is something we'll have to turn to later. But it's because of the possibility of that argument that I wanted to distinguish the initial question, could it be true that you're better off dead from the secondary question, even if it could be true that you're better off dead, could it ever be a reasonable or rational decision for you to believe that you're in one of those situations? Unless we've got the two things in place, it doesn't seem likely that it's ever going to be rational to commit suicide. So, the very first topic we have to look at is, could it ever be true that you'd be better off dead? And immediately, there's a kind of logical worry that may occur to some of you, certainly has been raised by various philosophers. And that's to say that the very judgment, the very claim, that Jones would be better off dead can't make any sense. On the assumption that, look, in order to make comparisons-- better off, worse off; here he is in such and such a situation; he'd be better off in that other situation-- you've got to be able to talk about, on the one hand, what condition or state the person is before and what condition or state the person would be in afterwards, if they were to make that choice. Call this the two-state requirement. Normally, when we make judgments about whether something would leave you better off or worse off, we satisfy the two-state requirement. You're trying to decide whether or not to lose some weight. And you think, well, here's how well off I am now, being overweight. Here's how well off I would be later, if I were to lose that weight. I can compare the two states, say the second state's better than the first state. That's what makes it true that I'd be better off. Trying to decide whether or not to marry the person or break up with the person or pick this career or change careers. You've got the state you're in and you compare it to the state you would be in. You compare the two states. That's what allows us to say, "Yeah, I'd be better off" Or "No, I'd be worse off." But when we're talking about cases of suicide, cases where, well, here I am now, the before state requirement's in place, but if we contrast that with the after state requirement, well, that part's not met, right? When you--On the assumption that death is the end, that you won't exist, nonexistence isn't a state that you will be in. It's not a condition of you, because states and conditions presuppose existence. We can talk about are you happy? Are you sad? Are you bored? Are you excited? All of those things presuppose your existence. Even are you sleeping? is a state or condition you can be in, because you exist. But if I kill myself, I won't exist. There is no second state to compare. So, how could we possibly say, the objection goes, how could we possibly say that I'd be better off dead? That seems to presuppose that there's a second state that we can compare to my actual state. Since there isn't one, the judgment, I'd be better off dead, can't even get off the ground. It's got a logical mistake built right into it. Well, that's the objection. And, as I say, there are a number of philosophers who are drawn to it. Maybe some of you are drawn to it as well. It seems to me that it's mistaken. Consider what we wanted to say when we talked about the deprivation account, the central account of what's bad about death. For most of us, dying would be bad, because it would deprive us of the good things in life that we would get, if only we didn't die. That seemed like a natural thing to say. It seemed like an appropriate thing to say. Of course, we might ask, if we believe in the two-state requirement, how could we have said that? After all, given the two-state requirement, to say that death is bad for me, I'd be better off staying alive. If we believe in the two-state requirement, we've got to say, Oh, so had I died, I would have been in some state that I could compare to my current state and say that it's worse. But, of course, death isn't a state. So, the two-state requirement's not met. Well, we might say this should give us some pause. If the two-state requirement-- It would be one thing if all that the two-state requirement said was, you know, we can't ever say we'd be better off dead. But it turns out the two-state requirement's got more implications than that. It's got the implication that you can't even say you're better off staying alive. And that's very, very hard to believe. Imagine that you've got some happy person, some incredibly happy person with a wonderful life filled with whatever goods you think are worth having in life-- love and accomplishment and knowledge and whatever it is. He's walking across the street and he's about to get hit by a truck. And so, at some risk to yourself, you leap into the way, pushing him out of the way, saving his life. And happily, you don't get hurt either. He looks up, realizes he was this close from death and he says, "Thank you. Thank you for saving my life. "And now what you have to say is, "I'm afraid you're rather confused. Because to say 'thank you' for my saving your life is to presuppose I've benefited you in some way. To presuppose I've benefited you in some way is to assume that you're-- it's a good thing that your life has continued. But, you see, given the two-state requirement, we can't say it's a good thing that your life continued, because the two-state requirement says we can only make that kind of remark when there's a before state and an after state. And the after state would have been nonexistence. So, you see, you're really rather philosophically confused in thinking that I've done you some sort of favor by saving your life." I can't take that argument seriously. It seems to me that-- and I hope that none of you would take it seriously, either. Of course, you are doing somebody a favor when you save their life, given the assumption that their life has been and would continue to be wonderful. And what that shows is not that so nonexistence really is a kind of spooky, super thin state or condition. No, of course it isn't. Nonexistence is nonexistence. It's no kind of condition or state at all. What it shows is the two-state requirement isn't a genuine requirement on these sorts of evaluations. We don't have to say that if you had died-- when you point to the person whose life you saved, we don't have to say that had you died, you would have been in some inferior state. We simply have to say the life you would have had, had I saved you and indeed will have, given that I have saved you, is a great life. Since it's good, to lose it would be bad. Since losing it would be bad, saving it for you is benefiting you. It's doing you a favor. Two-state requirement says otherwise. Two-state requirement's got to go. But, having gotten rid of it, we can say the same thing in principle on the other side. Imagine there was somebody whose life was horrible, full of pain and suffering and misery. Now, whether there could be such a person, again, that's a question we'll turn to in a second. But if there were such a person, then we can say, for their life to continue isn't good for them; it's bad for them. Their life is full of misery and suffering and frustration and disappointment. And the more and more of that, the worse and worse the life is. To lead a life of 100 years, where every moment is torture and pain, is worse than a life of 30 years, where every moment is torture and pain. So, if you had such a person, for their life to go longer would be bad. In which case, for their life to be going shorter, would be better for them. And that's all we mean when we say they'd be better off dead. Not that there's some spooky super thin and hard to describe condition that they'd be in if they were dead. But simply, we look back at the two possible lives they could have. Just with the person whose life we saved. The first person, we compare the great life that lasts 100 years versus the great life that only lasts 20 years because you didn't save their life. We say, oh, the life of 100 years, better life. And so, saving their life is a good thing for them. Similarly, we compare the lives of misery, the long life versus the short life of misery. And we say, oh, the long life of misery is a worse life to have than the short life of misery. And that being the case, we simply can say you'd be better off dead. Not that you'd be in some condition that's a good one. It's simply, you'd avoid this condition, which is a bad one. And if the two-state requirement says otherwise, so much the worse for the two state requirement. All right. So this is by way of the logical worry, that we can't even get off the ground in talking about the possibility that you'd be better off dead. I think if we believe in the two-state requirement, maybe we'd have to say that. But the cost of accepting the two-state requirement is so implausible, that the person's dying of a heart attack and you perform CPR. Instead of saying "Thank you," they say, "Oh, I'm really no better off than I would have been if I died, even though I'm having a wonderful life." The two-state requirement's just so implausible, we should let it go. Now, having done that, of course, doesn't yet tell us that it could, in fact, be the case that somebody's life could be so bad that they'd be better off dead, that the existence that they've got is worse than not existing at all. All we've done so far is leave open the door; open the door to the possibility of saying that coherently. But that doesn't mean it's true. Whether or not there could be such lives depends on your view about what's the correct account of well-being. What is it that goes into making somebody's life worthwhile? Now, as we've seen previously, this is a controversial topic. People disagree about the ingredients of the best kind of life. And because of these differences, we're going to get philosophical differences of opinion with regard to whether or not a life could be so bad that it would be better for it to come to an end. I'm not going to try to rehearse all the possible theories there are. Or, for that matter, even all the theories that we've talked about previously. But to give you an illustration of how it could be true, imagine, go back to our simplest theory of well-being--hedonism, according to which your quality of life is a matter of adding up all the pleasure and subtracting all the pain. And we need to take into account how long the pleasures and the pains last and how intense the pleasures and the pains are. But still, we add up the total amount of pleasure, add up the total amount of pain, subtract the pain from the pleasure and look to see what our grand total is. If it's positive, your life's worth living. And the greater the number, the greater the positive number, the more your life is worth living. If it's negative though, if your life is filled with pain and suffering, or at least so much pain and suffering that it outweighs whatever pleasures you may have in your life, so that your balance is a negative one, then your life's not worth living. Having that go longer and longer is just more and more negative balance. That's a life that's bad for you to have and you'd be better off not having it. You'd be better off having your life come to an end. You'd be better off dead. And, of course, the more and more negative the grand total is, the worse your life is. And so the more it's true that you'd be better off dead. Well, that's what hedonism says. If we're not hedonists, and of course, previously I've argued that we shouldn't be hedonists, then we need a more complicated theory of the good. We need to throw in other things, perhaps, certain external goods. It's not just a matter of getting the insides right-- the pleasure and the pain and the other mental states-- there are various facts about your objective hookup with the rest of the world. Are you really climbing Mount Everest? Are you really accomplishing things? Do people really love you, and so forth and so on? Whatever your list is of those other objective goods-- well you'll probably also want to have a list of other objective bads, besides pain. But still, the same basic idea is going to be in place. We're going to want to somehow add up all of the various objective goods, add up all the various objective bads, and see where the balance lies. Do the goods outweigh the bad? If the goods outweigh the bad, that's great. Your life's worth living. But if the bads outweigh the good, then your life is not worth living, or not worth continuing. Now, as we've noted before, there are philosophical theories which go on to claim-- pessimists, various versions of pessimistic views, which say, for everybody in all circumstances, life is so bad that they'd be better off dead. Life's so full of suffering and misery, that whatever pleasures there are and other goods there may be in the life, they get outweighed by the objective bads. There are philosophical views like that, but I suppose the commonsense view is, well, even if some lives may be so bad that the person is better off dead, that's not true of all lives. It depends on the facts of the case. So, let's focus on that possibility. Of course, even here, we still have to return to another issue that we've considered before. Namely, is life itself worth having? Is the very fact that you're alive itself a good thing? These are the valuable container theories, which I've previously contrasted with the neutral container theories. You'll recall that according to the neutral container theories, in thinking about the quality of someone's life, you just look at the contents. Life itself is only a container, good or bad, depending on what it's filled up with. But opposed to the neutral container theories, we had valuable container theories which say the very fact that you're alive adds some positive value above and beyond whatever's going on in your life. Now, even the valuable container theories came in different versions. There were more modest versions, where in principle, the positive value of being alive could be outweighed if the contents got bad enough. And we contrast that with fantastic container theories, according to which being alive is so valuable, that it doesn't matter how bad the contents get, the grand total is always a positive one. Now look, if you accept a fantastic container theory, then pretty clearly, it's never true that somebody could be better off dead. Because no matter how bad the contents get, the fact that they're alive, per se, is so valuable, it outweighs that subtotal, giving us a positive grand total. So pretty clearly, from the perspective of fantastic container theories, suicide will never be rational, because it's never true that you're better off dead, because it's never true that your life over all, taking everything that's relevant into consideration, gives us a negative. Yeah, question. The question was, on the fantastic container theories, what's so incredible about life itself? Are we saying it's intrinsically valuable? And yes, the answer is: precisely. The fans of the valuable container theories are saying being alive itself is valuable. You may recall that I previously said although people talk that way, they probably don't actually mean it, right? If you told them, okay, you can be alive as a blade of grass, they wouldn't say, "Oh, wouldn't that be wonderful? That's worth having." Most fans of the claim that being alive, per se, is valuable don't really mean life per se. They mean something more like life as a person. Being the kind of entity who can think and plan, even if your plans go wrong, at least you were a person able to experience things, know things, and so forth. Of course, if that's the reason for accepting the fantastic container theory, then we might wonder what should we say about those cases where the P-functioning has decayed and the person is no longer able to continue as a person, but perhaps can still feel pain? In that case, perhaps, life could cease to be worth living. Though whether or not we should describe it in that way also depends on these complicated issues that we've discussed previously, about would that still be you? Would you still exist? Would you still be alive under those circumstances? So, the basic idea behind valuable container theories is that life, or the life of a person, or something like that, has intrinsic value above and beyond the question of what's going on within your life. If we accept the fantastic container theory, maybe nobody's life is ever so bad, grand total. Because--so that suicide would be the rational thing to do-- because the value of life, per se, is so incredible that it outweighs the contents. It has to outweigh the contents. That's a philosophical view at the opposite end of the pessimists. The pessimist said, "As a matter of philosophical reflection, we can see that everybody's life is worse than nothing." The fantastic container fans are saying, "As a matter of philosophical reflection, we can see that everybody's life is better than nothing." Most of us, I imagine, find ourselves somewhere in between. Either we believe in the neutral container theory and think it's a contingent matter whether the contents are sufficiently good or bad. Or, we may accept the modest version of the valuable container theory. On that theory, of course, life has some intrinsic value, but it's got a finite intrinsic value. And in principle, even that could be outweighed if the contents get bad enough. And so again, it would be an empirical question. We have to take a look and see, in which cases do the contents get bad enough? Now, I guess I'm one of these people in the middle. I'm inclined to think it's not true that everybody's life is worse than nothing. Nor is it true that everybody's life is better than nothing. It varies from person to person. And indeed, not just--since we're thinking about suicide, we're not talking about their life as a whole, but really, what does life promise from here on out? Sadly enough, sad to say, it seems to me there are cases, and probably most of us are familiar with cases, where the correct description, given the--your favorite theory of well-being-- is going to be that for this person, here on out, what life has to offer is sufficiently bad, so that the contents are sufficiently negative as to outweigh whatever value life itself might have. We could imagine somebody in the terminal stages of some illness, where their cancer perhaps is causing them a great deal of pain. And the pain is so bad that they can't really do much of anything else. It's not as though they could continue working on their novel or continue talking with the members of their family, because they're just distracted by the pain and wishing it would come to an end. Horribly enough, many degenerative diseases leave the person less and less capable of doing the things that give life value. And the very realization that you're in that situation and no longer able to spend time doing things, or hanging out with your family, or talking with them, or whatever it is may, itself, be a source of more frustration and pain. There are medical conditions where, horribly enough, infants get born where they're just in continual pain and they never develop cognitively. Their brain doesn't develop and then they die. And you look at these lives and you say these are lives--I want to say, these are lives that were not worth having. These children would have been better off never having been born at all, certainly not any kind of favor for them to continue their lives. Well, let's focus on some case like the terminal patient. A person's got a disease--at least, that would be a nice easy example. Not easy to live through, but easy philosophically. Easy example to think about-- some terminally ill patient whose disease is getting worse and worse. And so, there are fewer and fewer of the good things in life that the future holds for them. Instead, what the future holds is more and more pain, suffering, incapacity, and frustration. When it gets bad enough, it seems to me, in some of those cases the person can correctly say, or we, at least, can correctly say of them, they'd be better off dead. All right. Let me try to draw some examples. Again, we're bracketing the question: Can the person think clearly about their case? That'll come later. Let's just try to talk about when would suicide make sense? When would it be sort of a rational thing to do to end your life? A couple of different cases. I'm going to draw graphs. We'll let the x-axis represent time. And the y-axis represents how good or bad your life is at that time. For those of us who are fans of the neutral container theory, the thing to say is this represents the overall goodness of your contents or the overall badness of your contents. The higher up, the better the contents. The lower down, the worse the contents. For those who are fans of the modest container theory, this represents the grand balance. So it's contents plus the extra bit you get from being alive. But of course, if you're a fan of the modest container theory, then even if the contents are negative, the grand balance might still be positive. But this represents the overall bottom line, whether you accept the neutral container theory or the modest container theory. So, here's an example of what a life might look like. It's going along pretty well and then things get worse. And things sort of deteriorate. And let's suppose this point represents when you would die of natural causes, natural death. So, towards the end, life's not as great as it was when you were young and vigorous and healthy and had all sorts of opportunities and accomplishments. But still, till the very end, it stays positive. Well, if that's what your lifeline would look like, pretty clearly, suicide doesn't ever make any sense. In particular, you wouldn't want to say oh, look, here's the place where I should kill myself, because here is where things start to get worse. Yes, things are beginning to get worse, but they never get so bad that you're better off dead. So, suicide wouldn't make any sense at all. For suicide to make sense, it's got to be the case that your life takes a turn for the worse. Not just any old turn for the worse, but a turn so much for the worse, that for some chunk of your life, your life is worse than nonexistence, the zero line, the x-axis. All right. Imagine that's what's happened. Here you are. You're healthy, you're vigorous, you're accomplishing things, but you've got some degenerative disease that's going to make things worse and worse. Here's the period in which it's getting worse. And then after a while, your existence is going to be worse than nothing. Here, we can at least broach the question in an intelligible way. Might suicide make sense? Suppose this is the point where the downturn begins. Should you kill yourself at that stage? No. Because, after all, even though there's a downturn, things are getting worse, there's still going to be another period of life, another chunk of whatever it is-- year, five years, six months, whatever it is-- where although life isn't as good as it had been before, it's still better than nothing. Killing yourself at this earlier moment is, we might say, premature. It's throwing away a chunk of life that would still be worth having. It's not the right thing to do. It doesn't make sense rationally. Well, if not that moment, what about this moment? Here's the precise point at which your life is becoming worse than nothing. For some initial stretch of that, it won't be very much worse than nothing. But still, overall, it's a negative. Up to that moment, your life was worth living. From that moment on, your life is worse than nothing. If you've got complete control over when to kill yourself, well, that would be the time to do it. Suppose you don't have complete control. It's straightforward enough to say if your life is going to become worse than nothing and you have complete control over when you kill yourself, it seems pretty plausible to say the precise moment at which suicide would become rational would be exactly that moment at which your life became not worth having. But you might not have that kind of control. Suppose that what you've got is a degenerative disease that is going to progressively strip you of the ability to control your body. Still, your mind works for a much longer time. And so, for a period of time, you're basically stuck in your hospital bed being fed by somebody else. But perhaps you're able to listen to your family talk about things, have books read to you. Maybe you can engage in conversation, even though you can't use your arms and so forth. Your life's still worth living, but the time's going to come when your life won't be worth living. And at that point, you'll no longer have the ability to kill yourself, because you won't have control over your body. It raises the question of-- I'm sure you can all see at this point, the question of suicide also turns into or comes up against, the question about euthanasia, mercy killing. Under what circumstances is it ever rational to ask somebody else to kill you? Under what circumstances, if ever, is it morally legitimate to kill somebody else? But let's continue to focus on the case of suicide. Suppose you live in a society which is so unenlightened as to have ruled out euthanasia. In fact, you live in our society. And so, what we don't allow is the possibility of somebody else coming along and killing you when the time comes. So, you know the time is going to come at which you'd be better off dead. But once you're there, once you're here, it's too late. You can't do it. You won't have the ability to kill yourself, and nobody else will be able to do it for you. In that case, killing yourself earlier might still make sense. Take this earlier point, for example. Here, if you kill yourself now, you're throwing away some life that's worth living. But if this is the last moment at which you're going to be able to kill yourself, it might still make sense, rationally. Because your choice is not end it here or end it there. We're assuming you don't have the possibility of ending it here, at the precise moment at which life became no longer worth having. Your choice, instead, is really just this. End it here and throw away this whole last bit. Or not end it and then continue until you die from the disease. So, your question is only, what do I think about the value of this last bit? On the whole, it's got a good part and it's god a bad part. Is it better to have the good part and the bad part or better to have none of it? And the answer, of course, is well, if the bad part's going to continue long enough, it's better to have none of it. The bad outweighs the good. So that the rational thing to do would be to decide to end your life then, when you still can, rather than condemn yourself to the long final stretch of life not worth living. Well, what if the last time that you could actually control it was way back here, for whatever reason it is. Here, you've got access to the means of killing yourself and you won't have access later. Your life's still going to be great for a very long time. And then, inevitably, it'll be bad for a period of time. But at least if I've drawn it right, if not, we can shorten this. I suppose death would come here. Here's a case where if you don't kill yourself now, you're condemning yourself to the whole rest of the story. But we might say, "All right. Although, admittedly, the end of the story's going to be negative, the only way to avoid that negative last part is to throw away this very long great initial part." That doesn't make sense. Although your life is now still going to be a mixture of good and bad, and you wish there were a way to end it here, you don't have that choice. It's throw away the good and the bad, or keep them both. And in this story, obviously enough, the good is enough to outweigh the bad. So, suicide doesn't make sense in that situation. Here's a rather different way the story might go. Suppose your life's going along really great and it takes a turn for the worse but then is going to get better. So, it ends here with death by natural causes. Could suicide make sense here? Does it make sense to say, "Look, I'm going to kill myself in order to avoid the downturn" Or indeed, even if the recovery wasn't so long a recovery, could suicide make sense here, because you're about to take this big dip down and be condemned to most of the rest of your life being significantly worse than it was before? No, suicide doesn't make sense in this situation. Because even though what you're going to have during this period is a life worse than the life you had before, the life you've got here is still above the x-axis. It's still a life worth living. This point, I think, is probably crucial enough that it's worth taking a moment to reflect on. The fact that your life is less good than it had been, less good than indeed maybe all the lives around you are having-- all the people around you are having lives that are better than yours-- still doesn't mean that your life is so bad that you're better off dead. It's easy to lose sight of that, right? Here we are sliding down and all we see is the fact that we're moving down. It's natural to get caught up in the thought "I'm better off dead," but it's a mistake. You're not better off dead. This situation, I suppose, is probably--I always worry when I spend-- when I end this class talking about suicide, because what's the major cause of death among teenagers? Well, it's suicide. That's not really so all that surprising, because teenagers are pretty healthy, as people go. And so the--you're either going to get killed by an accident or you're going to get killed by doing it to yourself. The kind of mistake that I think leads most teenagers into killing themselves is something like this. They've broken up with their girlfriend. They've flunked out of school. They didn't get into medical school or law school or what have you. And they think to themselves, "Oh, from here on out, my life's not worth living." And the answer is, no, that's actually, as an objective matter, probably not the case. Even if your life would be less worth living than you had hoped it would be, it's still better than nothing. Of course, in the typical case, I suppose what it really looks like is this. Small dip then continues wonderfully. But you lose sight of all the good stuff yet to come while you're in the middle of the dip. So, although I'm taking time now to talk about the question, under what circumstances might suicide be a rationally justified one? I should hasten to add the remark that I'm fairly confident that for nobody in this class would suicide, in fact, be a rational decision. Now, that doesn't mean it couldn't turn out to be a rational decision later in your life, but that, very likely, overwhelmingly likely, is not one now. Well, a couple other cases that I still want to have us consider, but I think that's probably enough for today, so we'll take it up there next time. 



 Chapter 24: 自杀(二)：犹豫不决的决定


Last time, we were discussing the rationality of suicide. We separated the question of the rationality of suicide from the ethics of suicide or the morality of suicide. We'll be turning to the morality of suicide later today. But the first question in thinking about the rationality of suicide was whether or not it could actually be the case that somebody would be better off dead. Having argued that, at least on what struck me as the more plausible theory is, that was a possibility. We then turned to the question of under what circumstances, more particularly-- or perhaps the better way to put it, at what point-- would it be true that suicide might be rational? In tackling the question, we were initially bracketing the question about whether you could ever reasonably or rationally judge that the circumstances actually obtained. We'll turn to that question in a few minutes. The question we were focusing on originally was just, from the objective perspective, as it were, what does the graph need to look like in order for it to be the case that you'd be better off dead and suicide would be a rational choice? I drew a variety of different graphs, different lines about your life doing better or worse, and noted for each one of them, at what point, if ever, suicide might be a reasonable choice. I want to draw a couple of more graphs before ending this bit of the discussion. You'll recall the axes. The x axis represents time. The y axis represents how good or bad your life is overall, taking into account the value of being alive, per se, if you accept a valuable container theory. The higher the line, the better your life is at that time. The lower the line, the worse your life is at that time. You might say, the easy cases, at least in the philosophical point of view, are ones where things get worse. Eventually, your life becomes worse than nothing. You'd be better off dead. And it's going to stay that way until such time as you might die from natural causes. Dying from natural causes. In a situation like this, killing yourself from here on out would make sense, assuming you knew the facts, could trust your judgment, and so forth and so on. Some of the issues that we'll come back to in a minute. And indeed, as we saw, there will be even cases in which it might make sense to kill yourself earlier, if this was the last chance at which you had the ability to kill yourself or not, even though you'd be giving up some life that was worth living, that was the only way to avoid a much larger chunk of life that was not worth living. So, suicide might still make sense. On the other hand, if the choice was way back here, although this is--killing yourself early on would be the only way to avoid the later chunk not worth living, at least if that chunk's small enough-- suppose it was like this you'd say it doesn't make sense to kill yourself this early. You'd be throwing away too much, even though that's the only way to avoid the bad stuff. Now, as I say, that's the easy graph, where you go from a life worth living to a life not worth living and it stays there. But suppose instead, we have a situation like this. Here, life becomes worse than nothing for a while, but you recover. You're going to return to a life that's worth having. And suppose that after you recover, you'll have a very nice third stage, third act of your life before you would eventually die of natural causes or natural death. Here, the crucial point to make, of course, is that even though for a while your life will be worse than nothing, negative overall, it doesn't mean that it makes sense to kill yourself at this point. Because, of course, although it's true that if you do kill yourself here, you're avoiding this negative chunk, this bit below the x axis, doing that also throws away the very large third act where your life returns to being better than nothing. Since the choices have neither of these, or both, and the positive third act is great enough to outweigh the negative second act, on balance, it doesn't make sense. But of course-- So even though your life might be worse than nothing for some stretch, suicide wouldn't necessarily be a rational decision. But it's crucial in making that argument, that the--what I've been calling the third act. Here's act one, here's act two, here's act three. It's crucial in making this argument is that the third act was sufficiently great, sufficiently long and sufficiently high that it outweighs the bad of the second act. And although that's true the way I've drawn the graph, we could imagine that it wasn't quite like that. Suppose that after the second act, in which your life is not worth living, you will recover and have a third act in which life once again is good for you, overall. Still at this point, act three doesn't outweigh act two. Although there's a recovery, it's too short and not high enough to outweigh the bad of act two. And so, under that circumstance, when you ask yourself, let's say at this moment, would suicide here be rational? the answer could well be "Yes." Although in killing yourself you've given up act three, which would be good for you overall, doing that's the only way to avoid act two, which is bad for you overall, and sufficiently bad to outweigh the good of act three. So, if you've got the choice of suicide here, it might well be rational. Notice however, that the crucial point, again, is when are we talking about the possibility of committing suicide? Committing suicide here might be rational, but not necessarily, indeed not at all, at this later moment. Because at this point, the fact that you've gone through act two is now history. There's nothing you can do about it. You've had this horrible period of your life and now it's over. Your question is not, can you avoid act two? It's too late for that. You're simply asking yourself, what do I think about act three? Should I avoid act three? And that doesn't make sense. We've stipulated that act three is good for you overall. So here, suicide no longer makes sense, even though it would have made sense over here. The interesting point is that these possibilities are not mere theoretical possibilities, but actually can happen. There's a famous case of, in the bioethics literature, of somebody who suffered a horrible set of burns over a great deal of their body and had to go through a period, a very long period, of recovery in which they were hospitalized, basically immobilized and in a great deal of pain, while their nerves regenerated and their skin regrafted and the like. And early on in that period, this person said, although he believed that he'd eventually recover, what he was going to have to go through was so horrible that he wished he were dead. Because of the nature of his hospitalization, he wasn't able to kill himself. He asked that he be killed and people refused. He went through a period and sure enough, he recovered. And eventually, he said, "Yes. Now my life is worth living again. And of course, since it is worth living, now that I'm able to kill myself, it no longer makes sense for me to kill myself. Because here I am," As he might put it, in act three with a life worth living. But for all that, even though I now have a life worth living, I haven't changed my opinion that it would have been better for me back here toward the beginning of act two for me to have been killed, or for me to have died. It remains the case that I wish I had died here, so as to avoid all the pain and suffering, even though I'm now in a period which is better for me, good for me overall." All right. One other case. This is just repeating a point that actually I made very early on. In all of these cases where I've argued for the rationality of suicide, it's because eventually the line has dipped below the x axis. The crucial point to remember is, even if your situation deteriorates and indeed doesn't recover, that still doesn't make suicide rational. The question is not, am I worse off than I had been or than I might have been had I not had the decline? The question in thinking about the rationality of suicide is, am I so badly off that I'm better off dead? And if your life is a sufficiently rich and valuable one, there's a great deal of room for going down, having a worse life, while still ending up at a life better than nothing. In that case, of course, suicide's not rational at all. Still, it does seem to me that there are cases in which the line does cut below the x axis and remains there for a sufficiently long time, perhaps remains there forever, so that the person is better off dead. And so we might say, from that point of view, if only the person could recognize the facts and know for a certainty that's what their line was going to looklike, suicide would at certain points be rational. Still, that means we need to turn to the second part of the question. Somebody who believes suicide cannot be rational might say, look, the whole game is in the phrase I just used. Sure, there are situations in which if only you knew the facts, if only you had a crystal ball and knew for a certainty this is what my life is going to go on from here on out, then suicide would be rational. But of course, we never have a crystal ball. We never have the guarantee that this is how the line's going to go. So, the question we need to turn to now is, could it be rational for you to judge that your situation is one in which the line's going to go below and stay below, or stay below long enough, so that on balance, you'd be better off dead? Let's suppose that somebody's situation is like that, or at least there can be situations like that. Could it ever be reasonable to judge that your situation is like that? And if so, could it ever then be reasonable to act on that judgment and end your life? We're still bracketing questions about morality. Here we're still looking at things from the personal, rational perspective. And once again, what I want to do next is distinguish two questions. I want to distinguish between questions about what should we say if you were thinking clearly versus what should we say if your thinking is clouded. Again, one might think, look, in the type of cases where suicide might be rationally warranted, it's going to be so stressful, that nobody can think clearly in the middle of that situation. And so even if it were true that you could reasonably decide to commit suicide if only you were thinking clearly, nobody does think clearly. Let's come back to that worry in a moment. Let's assume for the moment that you can think clearly about your situation. Perhaps you've got some sort of painful disease, but the disease is not painful constantly. There are periods in which it comes to an end, brief periods in which you're able to assess your situation, weigh up the facts. Could it ever be rational in that situation to decide to kill yourself? Well, as I say, we don't have a crystal ball. If you did have a crystal ball, if you knew for a certainty that your line was so bad that it was below zero and wasn't going to recover, perhaps we'd say, yeah, in that case, it would be rational to commit suicide. But we don't have a crystal ball. What should we say then? The critics of suicide might come back and say, well look, since you don't have a crystal ball, since you never know for sure that you won't recover, since there's always a possibility of recovery, suicide never makes sense. After all, we all know that there's constant progress in medicine. People are always making breakthroughs and what seems like an incurable disease one day may have some sort of cure the next. But if you killed yourself, you've thrown away any chance of getting that cure. And even if medical cures don't come around, various diseases sometimes simply have miraculous remissions. Somebody might just get better spontaneously. That's always a possibility. It doesn't happen very often, but it does happen now and then. And again, if you've killed yourself, you've thrown away any chance of recovery. So the critics of suicide might say, given that there's a chance, however small, of recovery, whether through medical progress or just some sort of medical miracle-- but of course, if you kill yourself there's no chance of recovery-- given that, it doesn't make any sense. It can't make sense rationally to kill yourself. That sort of position gets articulated now and again. But I think it's got to be mistaken. It's true that we don't have a crystal ball, and so in deciding whether to kill yourself, what you're doing is playing the odds. You're gambling. But still, gambling is something we do all the time. Indeed, there is no getting away from the fact that in the suicide case, in the case of some terminally ill patient, or at least somebody who appears to be terminally ill, there is no getting away from the fact that regardless of what decision he or she makes, they are gambling. Gambling, playing the odds, just is one of the facts of life about how we have to decide. We have to make our decisions under uncertainty. Now, suppose somebody says then, look, since we agree that we're deciding under uncertainty, it doesn't make sense to throw away the small chance of recovery. Then I want to say, that doesn't seem to be in keeping with the rules that we would normally use in deciding how to face a gamble. At the back of this room there are two doors. So let's tell a little fantasy, science fiction story about the two doors. After class is over, you're going to have to decide which one of these doors to go through. Let's suppose that if you go through door one, it's virtually guaranteed that what will happen is you'll be kidnapped and your kidnappers will then torture you for a week, after which perhaps you'll be released. Virtually certain, 90% certain, 99% certain, perhaps 99.9% certain. There's a small chance, 1 in 1,000, 1 in 10,000, that you won't be kidnapped and tortured. Instead, you'll be whisked away to a wonderful, tropical vacation where you'll have a fantastic time for a week. Not very likely, but not impossible, 1 in 1,000; 1 in 10,000, maybe less. That's if you go through door one. Door one has 99.99% chance of a week of torture, and a 0.01 or 0.001, whatever it is, percent chance of wonderful vacation. On the other hand, if you go through door number two, 100% certainty that the following is going to happen. You will immediately fall asleep. You'll be in a deep, dreamless state for the week, at which point you'll wake up. Well, what should you do? What should you pick? It's not quite certainty of being tortured versus certainty of sleeping. If it was certainty of being tortured versus certainty of sleeping, I suppose we'd all agree the thing to do is to go through door number two. Sleep's nothing positive, but on the other hand, it's nothing negative. I suppose if we were going to slap a number on it, we'd give it a zero. But torture is clearly a negative. And if it's a week of torture, it's a very large negative. So, it's zero versus some huge negative number. Certainty versus certainty, what should you pick? We'd all agree, I presume, you should pick door number two and pick the dreamless sleep for a week. Now we remember, but wait a minute, it wasn't certain that you were going to be tortured, it was just very, very, very likely that you were going to be tortured. And imagine if somebody says, oh, you must go for the gold. Go for door number one. Sure, it's overwhelming likely that you're going to be tortured. But there's a very small chance that you'll get this wonderful vacation. Whereas, if you pick door number two, you're throwing that chance away. And so, the only rational decision must be to pick door number one, to hold out for that chance, no matter how small of getting that fantastic vacation. That's the only rational decision. If anybody were to say that, I'd laugh at them. I'd say look, if you want to talk about, well maybe there's room for choice either way, it depends how great the vacation is, something like that. Yeah, there's maybe room for talk. But if you want to insist that the only rational decision must be to hold out for the chance of a wonderful vacation, no matter how small the odds-- given that if you don't get that wonderful vacation, you're going to be tortured and you could avoid all that by picking the sleep option-- if somebody insisted in the face of all that, that the only rational decision is to go through the door which is likely to be torture and a vanishingly small chance of vacation, I'd say they're just wrong. That's not a rationally required decision, given the odds. Yes, question? Great. So, the question was this. The point was, perhaps I'm cheating in making the example this way, because death of course, isn't--of course, what you're all supposed to be lulled into thinking is that death, choosing death, choosing suicide, is sort of like choosing to be asleep, a state of dreamless sleep, but sleep nonetheless. And the suggestion then was I'm cheating, because death is forever. I deliberately framed the example in terms of being tortured for a week versus being asleep for a week. And perhaps given that choice, it's clearly rationally acceptable to decide that you'd rather pick the sleep for a week option. But death isn't just for a week. If you commit suicide, you're dead forever. So, let's change the example. Suppose that--you guys are mostly, I suppose, in the vicinity of 20s, suppose that if you go through door number one, there's an overwhelmingly likely chance, 90%, 99%, 99.9% chance that you'll be kidnapped and tortured. And the torture will take place and last for another 50, 60, 70 years and then you die. There's a slight chance, a 10th of a percent, a 100th of a percent that no, no, you won't be tortured for the 50, 60, 70 years, but instead, you'll be brought to this tropical island paradise where you'll have this great time for the next 50 years. But what has happened in 99 out of 100 cases, or 999 out of 1,000 cases, or 9,999 out of 10,000 cases, is the torture scenario. While the people are being tortured, they beg for mercy. They beg to be put to death. They wish they were dead. It is truly the case that the tortures are so bad that these people are better off dead. Remember, we're assuming that you've got a case where you really will be better off dead unless the miraculous recovery takes place. And so again, we have to ask, in a situation like that where the person says--and similarly of course, if you go through door number two, you immediately fall asleep, and you stay that way for the next 70 years, and then you die while in your coma. The fan of door number one comes along and says the only rational decision is to pick door number one, where it's overwhelmingly likely that you face 50 years or 60 years or 70 years of torture. Because, of course, if you were to pick door number two, you're throwing away your chance, no matter how small. You're throwing away the only chance you have of the wonderful vacation. Well, each of us has to decide for themselves. But when I think about this case, this modified case, I still want to say choosing door number two could be a perfectly rational decision. It's just not right to say the only rational decision is door number one. Again, if somebody wanted to take a more modest position and say, it depends on how great the vacation would be, how mild the torture would be, maybe 1% chances versus a 5% chance-- there's room for debate about when might the balance come closer to even so it would be reasonable to take the chance. Yeah, there's room for debate. But if the chances are small enough and the person insists nonetheless, no matter how small the chances are, it could never be rational to pick door number two, I can only say that doesn't seem to be the way we would normally think about making choices. And of course, at this point, you can see how the argument exactly carries over to suicide. If you kill yourself, you're throwing away forever any chance of recovery. And that's important and that's worth thinking about. But it's also important to think about what was the chance of recovery? How large, or more to the point, just how small? And how badly off will you be if you don't commit suicide? You guys are 20, but of course, these sorts of choices also perhaps get faced by people who are considerably older and now in the final stages of some progressive disease. The doctor's told them, perhaps they're 70, that there's no significant chance of recovery. Sometimes it happens, but no more than 1 in 100 or 1 in 1,000. But if you continue alive, you will be in, well, perhaps great pain, perhaps unable to do the various things that give your life meaning and value. Could it be true that it would never be rational, provided that you're thinking clearly, never rational to say, look, the chances of something negative are so overwhelmingly great, that even though deciding for death throws away whatever small chance I've got of recovery, the chance of recovery is so small that on balance, it's reasonable to throw that chance away and avoid the overwhelmingly likely possibility that I'll continue in my current state with a life not worth living? It seems that if you're thinking clearly, there could be cases in which suicide would be a rational choice. But that still leaves us with the question, well, maybe that's where all the work needs to be done. What about this point about thinking clearly? Even if we grant, for the sake of argument, that there could be cases in which the person's life is so bad that they actually are better off dead and they stay that way, even if we grant that, if only somebody were thinking clearly, they would see that that was so likely to be the case, that suicide would be a rational or reasonable choice, still isn't it plausible to think that in real life, people can't think clearly about their situation when they're in situations like that? Look, it's one thing for us to be sitting here in this classroom, where I certainly hope that none of you are in this kind of situation. It's easy for us to be sitting here thinking clearly about it and recognize the philosophical possibility of thinking clearly about a case and realizing that it was a rational decision to end it, end your life. But people who are actually in those situations in point of fact are not able to think clearly. Because just think about it. What would have to be true of you for your life to be so bad that suicide might be a rational choice, that you'd be better off dead? Odds are you've got to be in some, indeed more than just some, you've got to be in a great deal of pain. Probably a great deal of physical pain. Beyond that, you probably also need to be incapacitated in a certain large number of ways, so that perhaps you're bedridden, can't enjoy discussions with your family, can't read poetry, or watch television, or whatever it is. A life watching television may not be as fantastic as the life that you all are able to have, but it might still be better than nothing. To imagine a life so bad, it's going to have to have so much physical disability that the amount of emotional distress is going to have to be so overwhelming, how could anybody think clearly in a situation like that? And then, the argument might go, if you can't think clearly, you can't rationally decide to trust the judgment you might make that you're in a situation where suicide is a reasonable choice. You might make the judgment, but if we ask ourselves, should you trust your opinion? the odds are, so the argument goes, no, you shouldn't trust your opinion, precisely because anybody for whom it would be true would have to be so emotionally distressed that they're not able to think clearly. If they're not able to think clearly, they can't have a judgment that's trustworthy. If the judgment's not trustworthy, you shouldn't trust it. And so, suicide could never turn out to be a rational opinion after all. Well, that's an interesting argument. It think it's an argument more worth taking seriously than some of the other ones, some of the early objections we've had against suicide. But even here, I'm not convinced. Let's again try to think of a case not quite like suicide and ask ourselves, can't there be cases where despite the fact that your thinking is clouded, it's still reasonable to trust the decisions that you make within your clouded thinking? Suppose you've got some disease that causes you a great deal of incapacity and a great deal of pain. But as it happens, there's a cure, or at least there's a surgical procedure that can be done, and the surgical procedure is almost always successful. So, what are the choices? Choice number one, continue in your current state. You've got some horrible, painful disease and it won't get better unless you have the surgery. If you do have the surgery, it's very, very likely that it will get better, 99 cases out of 100 the surgery works, or 99.9 cases out of 100 the surgery works, or 99.99 cases out of 100 the surgery works. Of course, like all surgery, there are risks. Sometimes you put the person under anesthesia and they don't wake up. It doesn't happen very often, 1 in 1,000, 1 in 10,000, 1 in 100,000, whatever it is. There's some chance the surgery won't work and you'll die on the operating table. But it's a very, very small chance, overwhelmingly likely the surgery will succeed. And if it does succeed, you'll be recovered. That's option number one. Option number two, you continue in your current state, incapacitated, unable to lead a valuable life, suffering, full of pain. Well, that's overwhelmingly likely. 1 in 1,000 cases there's some sort of natural cure, maybe 1 in 10,000 cases there's a natural cure. But in 999 out of 1,000 cases or 9,999 out of 10,000 cases, the disease just continues until, until you die some years down the road. There's your choice. Should you have the surgery or not? Well, I suppose what we think is, of course you should have the surgery. You'd be a fool not to have the surgery. It's overwhelmingly likely going to cure you. But now we worry. Wait a minute. Can you trust that judgment? After all, the condition you are in is so stressful, so painful, that you are obviously very emotionally worked up. And any judgment that you make that it's a reasonable decision to have this surgery is a judgment you're making while under the cloud of emotional distress. How could you possibly trust that judgment? And so you shouldn't trust the judgment, the argument goes. And so you must never agree to the surgery in this situation. But that can't be right. Surely we agree that it could be reasonable to trust your judgment in this situation. Now, to be sure, the fact that you are in all of this pain should make you pause, should make you hesitate, should make you think twice, and then think again, before deciding what to do. But still, if somebody says, since you're so worked up, it could never be rational to decide to have the surgery, that just seems to be going too far. It doesn't make sense. You've got to make some kind of decision. Deciding not to have the surgery is still making a kind of decision. And either decision then is a judgment that you're going to be making while worked up, while stressed, while under the cloud of pain and suffering. So think twice. Think a third time. Get the opinions of others, perhaps. But still, if somebody says it could never be rational to decide to have the surgery and then act on that decision, they're just wrong. Well, now let's come back to the suicide case. Same kinds of odds, just reversed. If you don't decide to commit suicide, we are imagining that it's overwhelmingly likely you'll continue in suffering. Some slight chance that you'll recover, but overwhelmingly likely you'll continue in suffering. Whereas, if you do kill yourself, it's overwhelmingly likely and perhaps even guaranteed, your suffering will come to an end. The only chance that it won't is if you think there's some chance of an afterlife. Well, should we be swayed by the argument at this point that since you are suffering, your judgment is cloudy and so you should not trust your judgment? Well, that can't be a good argument. If it wasn't a good argument in the surgery case, I can't see how it could suddenly become a good argument in the suicide case. What does seem right is, precisely because you're working and deciding under the cloud of emotional stress and pain, that you should think twice, and think a third time, and perhaps think yet again. You should not make this decision in haste. You should discuss it with your doctors. You should discuss it with your loved ones. But if somebody says you could never reasonably trust the judgment that you make while in these circumstances, I can only say that doesn't seem like a sound piece of advice. That claim doesn't seem right to me. I conclude, therefore, that as long as we're focused on the question of the rationality of suicide, ethics aside, the rationality of suicide under certain circumstances, suicide could be rationally justified. You could have a life that is worse than nothing. You could have good reason to believe you were in that situation. You could either be thinking clearly about your situation, or even if your judgment is clouded and difficult, you could still find the odds sufficiently great that it was reasonable to eventually trust your judgment. The rationality of suicide, I think, is secured. But for all that of course, it could still be immoral. There could be actions that are rationally legitimate, but for all that, morally illegitimate. As I mentioned previously, there's a big debate in philosophy as to whether or not these two things can really come apart or not. Arguably, reason actually requires you to obey morality, and so even if something's in your self-interest, perhaps it's not rational to do it, if it's immoral. Interesting question. Let's just bracket that question and just focus directly on the question now of morality. What should we say about the morality of suicide? Rationality aside, what should we say about the morality of suicide? Well, to really do justice to this question, of course, we would need to have an entire theory of morality laid down, and unsurprisingly, I don't have time to do that for us, an entire class on introduction to ethics where we try to lay down a basic fundamental theory about morality. All we've got left is a couple of minutes today and then one more lecture. So instead, what I want to do is first mention some quick and dirty arguments that have a kind of moral tinge to them. And then turn to some somewhat more systematic arguments where I'll quickly put in place some basic elements of a plausible moral theory. We won't have time to explore them in detail, but at least we'll get a shape of a basic moral theory and see what it might say about suicide. So, systematic a little bit later, first some quick and dirty arguments. Whether we should call it a moral argument, the first one, or not, I'm not quite certain. But it's certainly an argument that gets stated all the time in this area. When we think about the legitimacy of suicide, it's common enough to have the reaction, suicide is illegitimate because it's thwarting God's will. Maybe this isn't so much a moral argument as a theological argument. And for the most part, of course, as you know in this class, I've avoided at least some theological questions. Obviously, questions about the existence of a soul is itself a theological argument. But I've tried to discuss them as far as possible without bringing in questions about God, God's existence and God's will. But the topic's almost unavoidable when we think about suicide, given the prevalence of the thought, it's God's will that we stay alive and so it's going against God's will to kill ourselves. Well, I think the best response to this argument was given by David Hume some several centuries ago, two and a half centuries ago, where Hume says, look, if all we've got to go on is just the idea of a Creator who has built us and given us life, we can't infer that suicide is against God's will. At least, if you've found that thought a compelling one, then why wouldn't you also find it compelling to say it goes against God's will when you save somebody's life? This is a point that's close to one I've raised before. You're walking along Chapel Street and the person you're talking to, you see, is about to be hit by a car. So you push them out of the way. Previously, when we talked about this question, the question was whether or not they should be grateful to you. Now the question is whether or not they should complain, "How dare you do that! You've thwarted God's will. It was God's will that I be hit by that truck." So, when we're about to save somebody's life, should we decide not to do that on the grounds that it must be God's will that they're going to die? If you're a doctor and somebody's in cardiac arrest and you could now perform CPR, or whatever it is, in order to get their heart going again, should we say as a doctor, "Oh no, I must not do that. It's God's will that they die. If I try to save their life, I'm thwarting God's will." Well, nobody says that. But then, why is the argument any better in the case of suicide? We could of course imagine, when you've saved your friend's life and he says, "Oh, you thwarted God's will," what you might come back and say is, "Oh, no, no. You see, it was God's will that I save your life. And so it was God's will that you be in the situation where the truck was going to hit you unless I saved you. But it was also God's will that I save your life." And maybe the doctor should say something similar. Not an implausible thing to say. But given that that's not an implausible thing to say, why not say the same thing about suicide? It was God's will that I be in this situation, and then God's will that I kill myself. Absent any special instruction manual from God, the God's will argument cuts both ways, which is to say it doesn't give us any guidance. We don't know whether it's God's will that we act, or God's will that we don't act, absent an instruction manual from God. So, we can't conclude that suicide is obviously wrong, because it violates God's will. Well, unless you've got an instruction manual. You might think, for example, that the Bible tells us not to commit suicide. And since the Bible is God's word, we must do whatever the Bible tells us. That's a kind of argument that I'm perfectly prepared to engage in. Although, of course, there's a lot of assumptions behind that argument that we would need to really examine. Is there a God?-- Well, obviously we needed that weighing in for the God's will argument.-- Has God expressed his will in a book? If so, what book is it? Do we have moral reason to obey God? Also relevant for the God's will argument. And of course, if we do think we have an obligation to obey this instruction manual, are we really prepared to obey this instruction manual? Even if there's a sentence in this instruction manual that says don't commit suicide, a lot of other things the instruction manual also says that most of us are not inclined to do. The instruction manual says not to eat pork. Well, how many of you are not willing to eat pork? The instruction manual tells you not to mix various kinds of material together in a single item of clothing. How many of you think that that's unacceptable? The instruction manual tells you that if a teenager is rude to their parents, they should be stoned to death. How many of you think that that's a moral requirement? If you're going to pick and choose which bits of the instruction manual you actually think are morally relevant, then you can't come to me and say, "Oh, suicide is wrong because the instruction manual says so." You're not really using the instruction manual to give you moral guidance. You're starting with your moral beliefs and then picking and choosing which bits of the instruction manual you want to accept. Well, that's a big question. That's a big topic. And so having just touched on it, I'm going to have to put it aside. Instruction manual aside, at the very least, we might say, appeal to God's will can't help us to decide whether or not suicide is legitimate or not. But there's a different quick and dirty argument. Also it can be run in a theological form, but it need not be run that way. And that has to do with gratitude. We've been given life and life's pretty amazing. And so we have an obligation, a debt of gratitude to keep the gift. Now look, gratitude is not one of the moral virtues that gets a lot of discussion nowadays. It's fallen on rather hard times. But I see no reason to dismiss it. It does seem to me there is such a thing as a debt of gratitude. If someone does you a favor, you owe them something. You owe them a debt of gratitude. And so the argument might then go, look, either God gave us life, or nature gave us life, or our parents gave us life. Whatever it was, we owe a debt of gratitude for this wonderful gift. And as such, how do you repay the debt? You repay the debt by keeping the gift. If you kill yourself, you're rejecting the gift. That's being ungrateful, and ingratitude is immoral. It's wrong. And that's why suicide is wrong. That's the second quick and dirty argument. Perhaps it won't surprise you that I don't find this second argument persuasive either. Not because I'm skeptical about debts of gratitude, but I want us to pay attention to what exactly obligations of gratitude require us to do. In particular, it's important to bear in mind that you owe the person who gives you a gift something only when what he's giving you, or she's giving you, is a gift. Imagine that somebody, I'll call him The Bully, gives you a pie and says, "Eat it." But it's not an apple pie. It's not a cherry pie. It's some gross, disgusting, slime pie, some rotting slime pie, and he cuts out a big piece and he says, "Eat it." Do you owe this person, as a debt of gratitude, out of gratitude, do you owe him the obligation to eat the pie and continue eating the pie? That would seem like a rather odd thing to claim. This guy is indeed, as I've named him, just a bully. Now, of course, typical bullies, at least in the comic book cases, bullies are big and strong. The bully might be able to say the following thing to you. "You eat this pie or I will beat you up. I'll beat the crap out of you." And look, I'm not a very strong guy. He might well be able to do it, and I might not, I might well know he is going to do it. And so, it might be prudent for me to eat the slime pie, disgusting, appalling as it may be. It might be better to have a couple of slices of slime pie than to be beaten up to a pulp. But there's no moral obligation here. There's no moral requirement to eat the pie. Well, if God takes on the role of bully and says, "Eat the pie or I'll send you to hell," maybe it would be prudent of you to do what he says. And if God takes on the role of bully and says, "Even though your life has become so horrible that you'd be better off dead, I insist that you keep living or I'll send you to hell if you kill yourself," maybe it's prudent of you not to kill yourself. But there's no moral requirement here. God's just a bully on this story. Now, that's not to say that I think God is a bully. If you believe, plausibly enough, god is good, then God's not going to want you to continue eating the pie once it's spoiled. He gives you an apple pie. He says,"Eat it. It's good for you. You'll like it." Out of gratitude, you eat it. But then God, not being a bully, says, "If the pie ever spoils, you can stop eating." Why in the world would he insist that we continue to eat a spoiled pie if He's not a bully? So, I can't see how any argument from gratitude is going to get off the ground. If there's something immoral about suicide, we're not going to get the immorality through these quick and dirty arguments. We're going to have to get it from some more systematic appeal to moral theory. And that's what we'll turn to next time. 



 Chapter 25: 自杀(三)：自杀的道德评判以及全章总结


Last time we turned to questions about the morality of suicide, and I started with two arguments that I called quick and dirty arguments. I suppose it would have been fairer to say that they were really theological arguments, or they were moral arguments that used, in part, theological premises. I suggested that, at least if we look at them in their quick and dirty versions, they were inadequate, and if we're going to make a more careful argument about the morality of suicide, we need to turn to a more systematic view about the contents of morality. We need to look at suicide in terms of the basic moral principles. Now, that's not something we've got the chance to do in detail, but I think we can at least say enough about a couple of basic approaches to the contents of morality, or the basic moral rules, to get the beginnings of an understanding of what might emerge about the morality of suicide if we were to do that more carefully. So, holding off on suicide for the moment, let's ask ourselves, what is it that makes an action morally acceptable or morally forbidden? This is, unsurprisingly, something that different moral theories disagree about. But there's at least one factor or one feature that all, or almost all, moral theories agree about. And that is that the consequences of your action matter. That is, we might or might not think that consequences are the only things that are morally relevant when we think about the morality of your action, but surely it is one thing that's morally relevant-- what are the consequences of your action going to be. So, let's think about the morality of suicide with an eye towards consequences, bearing in mind that since we're talking about a moral point of view we need to take into account the consequences as they affect everybody. Now, the person who, of course, is most affected by suicide is, of course, the person who is killing themselves. And at first glance it might seem pretty clear that the consequences of suicide are bad for that person. After all, the person was alive and now they're dead, and we normally would take death to be a bad result. If I were to tell you, "Oh, here's a switch on the wall. If you were to flip the switch, a thousand people who would otherwise be alive would end up dead," you would normally take that to be a pretty compelling argument against flipping the switch. Why? Because the result would be bad. Why? Because a thousand people would end up dead. Well, one person ending up dead isn't as bad as a thousand people ending up dead, but for all that shouldn't we still say it's a bad consequence? And as a result of that, shouldn't we say that however far appeal to consequences goes in terms of giving us our moral theory, don't we have to say in terms of consequences, or with regard to consequences, suicide is immoral? But not so quick! Even though it's true that normally death is a bad thing, it's not always a bad thing. This is the sort of thing that we've learned by thinking about what does the badness of death consist in. Typical cases are ones in which the person's dying robs them of a chunk of life that would've been good for them overall, and because of that dying then is bad for them. But in the kinds of cases that we're thinking about, cases where suicide would be rationally acceptable, and we're now asking whether or not it's morally acceptable-- in those sorts of cases, at least the kind of paradigm examples that we've been focused on, the person is better off dead. They're better off dead, meaning that what life now holds out for them-- although perhaps not negative through and through-- is negative on balance. It's negative on balance; they're not better off continuing to live. They're better off dying. And that means, of course, that dying isn't bad for them, but rather good for them, and so their death is not a bad consequence, but rather a good consequence. Provided that you're prepared to accept the possibility of cases in which somebody would be better off if their life ended sooner rather than later, we're led to the conclusion that-- from the moral point of view as far as focusing on consequences goes-- the consequences might actually be good rather than bad if the person were to kill themselves. They will free themselves, let's suppose, of the suffering they would otherwise have to undergo. Well, that's--first glance said, consequences says suicide's wrong. Second glance says, consequences says, as least in certain circumstances, suicide's right. Of course, third glance suggests, we can't just focus on consequences for the person who is contemplating suicide. Because from the point of view of morality we have to look at the consequences for everybody. Who else might get affected by the death or suicide of the person? Well, the most obvious people for us to think about at that point then are the family and loved ones-- the people who most directly know about and care about the person who is contemplating suicide. And again--I'm running out of glances, but at first glance you might say, well, there the consequences are clearly bad. When the person kills themselves that causes, typically, a great deal of distress for the family and friends of the person who has killed themselves. Even if that's true, we now have to ask, how do the consequences weigh out? After all, we live in a world in which no single act typically has only good consequences, or no single act has bad consequences and only bad consequences. Often our choices are mixed packages where we have to ask whether the good that we can do is greater than the bad that we'd be doing with this act or that act or some third act. Even if there are, then, negative consequences in terms of distress to the family, friends, and loved ones, of the person who kills themselves, that might still be outweighed by the benefit to the person himself or herself, if it was really the case that he or she would be better off dying. But it's also worth bearing in mind that insofar as we're thinking about people who love and care about the person who is considering dying, then they may actually overall, on balance, be relieved that the suffering of their loved one has come to an end. We will, of course, all be horribly distressed that nature, or the Fates, or what have you, has brought it about that this person's choices are now reduced to killing themselves on the one hand, or continuing the terminal stages of some illness where they're incapacitated and in pain. We will, of course, wish there was a serious prospect of a cure, some chance of recovery, wish they'd never gotten ill in the first place. But given the limited choices, continued suffering and pain, on the one hand, or having an end to that suffering and pain, if the person can rationally assess their prospects and reasonably come to believe they're better off dead, then that's a judgment their loved ones can come to share as well. They may well regret the fact-- more than regret, curse the fact-- that these are the only choices they've got, but still, given the limited choices they may agree, they may come to agree, better to put an end to the suffering. And so when the person kills themselves, they may second that choice. They may say, "At least they're not in pain and agony anymore." So, if we look at it from the point of view of consequences-- in fact, suppose we had a moral view that said consequences aren't just one thing that was morally relevant in thinking about what makes an action right or wrong. Suppose we took the bold claim that consequences are the only thing that's morally relevant. There are moral views that take this position. I suppose the best-known example of this kind of consequence-only approach to morality is utilitarianism. Utilitarianism is the moral doctrine that says right and wrong is a matter of producing as much happiness for everybody as possible, counting everybody's happiness equally. And when you can't produce happiness, then at least trying to minimize the misery and suffering, counting everybody's misery and suffering equally. So, suppose we accept this utilitarian position. What conclusions would we come to then about the morality of suicide? I suppose the conclusion would be a kind of moderate one. On the one hand, we'd be rejecting the extreme that says suicide is never morally acceptable, because to say that, you'd have to be claiming suicide always has bad consequences overall. And that strikes me, although it's an empirical claim, it strikes me as a rather implausible empirical claim. It's, sadly enough, not too difficult to describe cases in which the results may actually be better if the person kills themselves rather than having their suffering continue. It may be better for them and better for their family. On the other hand, we certainly wouldn't want-- if we were utilitarians-- we also wouldn't want to go to the other extreme and say suicide is always morally acceptable, because, of course, to say that it's always morally acceptable is to say that the consequences are never bad when you kill yourself. And that's also pretty obviously an implausible thing to claim. You guys are young, you're healthy, you've got a great future in front of you. If you were to kill yourself, the results wouldn't be good. The results would be worse overall than if you had refrained from killing yourself. So, the utilitarian position is in the middle. It doesn't say suicide's never acceptable, doesn't say suicide is always acceptable. It says, perhaps unsurprisingly, it's sometimes acceptable; it depends on the facts. It depends on the results. It depends on comparing the results of this action, killing yourself, to the alternatives open to you. We have to ask, is your life worse than nothing? Is there some medical procedure available to you that would cure you? If there is, and even if your life is worse than nothing, that still doesn't make it the best choice in terms of the consequences. Getting medical help is a preferable choice in terms of the consequences. We can even think of cases where your life is worse than nothing, you'd be better off dead, and there is no medical alternative of a cure available to you, but for all that, it still isn't morally legitimate to kill yourself in terms of the utilitarian outlook. Because, as always, we have to think about the consequences for others. And there may be others who'd be so adversely affected by your death that the harm to them outweighs the cost to you of keeping yourself alive. Suppose, for example, that you're the single parent of young children. You've got a kind of moral obligation to look after them. If you were to die, they'd really have it horribly. It's conceivable then, in cases like that, the suffering of your children, were you to kill yourself, would outweigh the suffering that you'd have to undergo were you to keep yourself alive for the sake of your children. So, it all depends on the facts. Still, if we accept the utilitarian position, we do end up with a moderate conclusion. In certain circumstances suicide will be morally justified-- roughly speaking, in those cases where you're better off dead and the effects on others aren't so great as to outweigh that. Those will be the paradigm cases in which suicide makes sense or is legitimate, morally speaking, from the utilitarian perspective. But of course, that doesn't mean that suicide is indeed ever morally legitimate. Because we don't necessarily want to embrace the utilitarian theory of morality. Utilitarianism is what you get, roughly speaking, when we say consequences matter and they're all that matters. But most of us are inclined to think that there's more to morality than consequences. Most of us are inclined to think that there are cases in which actions can have bad results-- rather, actions can have good results and yet, for all that, be morally forbidden. Or actions could have bad results and yet, for all that, still be morally required. That's not to say that consequences don't matter morally; it's to claim, rather, that consequences aren't the only thing that matters morally. Consequences can be outweighed by other morally relevant factors. Well, that's the position that's held by the branch of moral theory known as deontology. So deontologists say other things matter morally besides consequences. In deciding whether your action is right or wrong, you have to pay attention to the consequences, but you have to pay attention to other things as well. What other things? Well, unsurprisingly, this is an area then in which different deontologists will disagree one to the next in terms of what else they want to add to the list of morally relevant factors. But there's one kind of additional factor that most of us in our deontological moods would want to add to the list, and that's this--so one, at any rate, that's relevant I think, most directly relevant for thinking about suicide. That factor is the factor of not just what was the upshot of your action but how you produced that upshot; not just what the results were, but what was your means of getting those results and more particularly still, did you have to harm anybody to produce the results? Most of us are inclined to think it's wrong to harm people, or at least innocent people. It's wrong to harm innocent people even if the results of doing that might be good. Now, I threw in the qualification about innocent people because, of course, it's also true that most of us are inclined to think that self-defense might be justified. Harming people who are attacking you or your friends or your fellow countrymen--that may be legitimate. And so it's not as though we want to say it's never legitimate to harm somebody. But those people are guilty; they're aggressors. What most of us in our deontological moods are inclined to think is it's never legitimate to harm an innocent person. And the crucial point is that's true even if the results would be better. Look, there's no debate between deontologists and utilitarians about harming innocent people in the normal case, because normally of course--you know, suppose I, to make an example--to end the class with a nice big bang, right--I brought my Uzi sub-machine gun. I now take it and go rat-a-tat-tat, killing 15 of you. Well, that would not be something that would have good results. And so, clearly, the utilitarian is going to reject that as well as the deontologist. They're in agreement about that. In the typical case, killing an innocent person has bad results, harms them. It's wrong, full stop, we're done. But what should we say about cases where killing an innocent person has better results? In real life, it's hard to think of cases like that, but we can at least go "Science-fictiony" And tell an example. So, here is one of my favorite examples in moral philosophy. Suppose that we have five patients in a hospital who are going to die because of organ failures of one sort or another. One of them needs a heart transplant, one of them needs a kidney transplant, one of them needs a liver transplant, and so forth and so on. Unfortunately, because of tissue incompatibilities, even as they begin to die we can't use the organs from the ones that have died to save the others. Meanwhile, here in the hospital for a routine check-up is John. John's perfectly healthy. And as you're doing your exams on him you discover that he's exactly suitable to be an organ donor for all five of the patients. And it occurs to you that if you were to find some way to kill him, but cover up the cause of death so it looked like he died of some unexpected freak seizure, you could then use his organs to save the five. This one gets the kidney, that one gets the other kidney, that one gets the heart, that one gets the liver, and that one gets the lungs. So your choice, roughly, is this. Just give John his routine medical exam, in which case the five other patients die, or chop up John, kill him and chop him up, using his organs to save the five patients. Well, what should we say is the right thing to do the organ transplant case? In terms of consequences it looks as though, if we tell the story right at least, the results would be better if we chop up John. After all, it's one versus five. And although the death of John is a horrible bad result, the death of the five is a horrible bad result. And so the results would be better if we were to kill innocent John. Well, if we had more time we could argue about are the results really going to be better, is that a realistic story--what have you-- are there other long-term effects on the healthcare profession that we haven't taken into account? But we don't have time to really pursue this story in detail. Let's just suppose we could eventually get the details right; the results really would be better if we chopped up John. Is that the right thing to do? Well, maybe utilitarianism says it's the right thing to do, but it's precisely for that reason that most of us would then say, you know, there's more to morality than what utilitarianism says. Now, whether that objection is a good one is a very, very complicated question, and if you want--if you'd like to pursue it-- if you want to pursue it--then I invite you to take an introductory class in moral philosophy. For our purposes, let's just suppose that most of us are on board with the deontologists when they say there's more to morality than what the utilitarian has, and this example brings it out. It's wrong to kill somebody who is innocent even though by hypothesis the results would be better--it's five to one. People have a right to life, a right not to be killed. And that right weighs in when we're deciding what to do morally, so that it's wrong to kill an innocent person even if the results really would be better. All right, let's suppose we agree with that--accept that. Again, in a fuller class on moral philosophy we'd have to ask ourselves what is the basis of that right, what other deontological rights do people have, what exactly are the contours of that right? But here we can just ask, suppose we accept a right like that, what are the implications of that for the morality of suicide? And now, it seems what we have to say is, suicide is wrong. Suicide is morally unacceptable. Because when I kill myself, well, I'm killing somebody. And didn't we just say as deontologists that killing an innocent person-- and I'm an innocent person-- killing an innocent person is morally wrong? Well, I'm a person. So, killing me is morally wrong. And it's not really any help to come back and say, but look, we've stipulated that this is a case where the person is better off dead. The results will really be better overall if he kills himself. Yeah, that's right. Maybe that is right. It doesn't matter--because as deontologists we said the right to life is so powerful it outweighs consequences. Just as it was wrong to chop up John, even though the results would be better--five versus one-- it's wrong to kill yourself, even if the results would be better. Even if that's the only way to put yourself out of pain, and those are good results, it doesn't matter. The right to life outweighs the appeal to consequences. So as deontologists, it seems, we have to say suicide is forbidden--full stop. Well, as usual in philosophy, it's not quite as simple as that. One possible response somebody might make is, but look, morality is only about how I treat others. It's not about how I treat myself. And if we were to accept that claim, then we could say the right to life only covers how I treat others. In particular, it rules out my killing other people even when the results would be good. But it doesn't have any implications for how I treat myself. And in particular then, if the right to life doesn't exclude self-killing, well then, suicide is acceptable. That's a possible moral view, but I find it rather implausible. If we were to start to explain what it is about you that explains why it's wrong for me to kill you, we'd start saying things about how, well, you're a person and, as such, you've got all these plans and so forth and so on. And as a person, you've got certain rights, certain things that shouldn't be done to you. You're not just, -- This is the thought that lies behind much deontological thinking, right? People aren't objects. We can't just destroy them for the sake of better results. Well, that's right; people aren't objects. But of course, I'm a person too. And so when I contemplate killing myself, I'm contemplating destroying a person. So, it's at least difficult to see why we would accept the claim that morality only governs how I treat other people. It seems--although the issue is a complicated one, which we don't have time to pursue further today-- it seems to me more plausible to say morality includes rules not only governing how I treat others but also how I treat myself. Yet, if that's right, and if among the moral rules are a right to life, a prohibition against harming people, then don't we have to say, look, it's wrong from the deontological perspective to kill yourself. Well, of course, the natural response to this line of thought is to say, but look, when I kill myself--unlike the case of chopping up John to save five others--when I kill myself, I'm doing it for my own sake. I'm harming myself for my own sake. That seems highly relevant in thinking about the morality of suicide. It does seem relevant, though it's not 100 % clear what to do with that thought. Here are two possible interpretations of that thought. First of all, you might think that the relevance of saying that I'm harming myself for my own sake is this. If I'm harming myself for my own sake, what I'm saying is, despite the fact that I'm harming myself, I'm better off. After all, we stipulated that we were focusing on cases in which suicide was rational. So, the person is better off dead. If they're better off dead, then although it's certainly true that there's a sense in which they're harming themselves-- I mean killing yourself is doing harm to yourself-- still it's not harm overall. The bottom line, we were imagining, is positive when you kill yourself. And so, although, unlike the case of John where you've harmed him and benefited others-- so you have harmed him overall-- in the case of suicide, when I harm myself to avoid the suffering I would otherwise go through, I'm not really, as we might say, harming myself overall. So, perhaps the deontological prohibition against harm is really a prohibition against harming people overall. Look, you've got some sort of a disease in your-- infection in your leg that has now spread and it's going to kill you unless we amputate your leg. So, you go into surgery and the surgeon chops off your leg. Has he done something immoral? It doesn't seem as though he has. But after all, he chopped off your leg! He harmed you! You used to have a leg and now you don't have one. Well, what we want to say is he didn't harm you overall. He harmed you in such a way that it was the only way to leave you better off bottom line, and that's not a violation of the rule against harming. At least, that's a possible thing to say. And if that's the right thing to say, then maybe that's what we should say about the suicide case yet again. Yeah, there's a deontological prohibition against harming innocent people, but what it's really a prohibition against, is leaving them worse off overall. And when I kill myself, I'm not leaving myself worse off overall. And if that's right, then even from the deontological perspective suicide may be morally legitimate. Well, that's at least one possible way to carry out the deontological stand, one possible way of interpreting the remark, "But look, when I kill myself, I'm doing it for my own benefit." Here's another possible way of interpreting that thought. When I kill myself, given that I'm doing it for my own benefit, I've obviously got my own agreement. I can't kill myself against my will. Suicide is something you do to yourself. And so, I have my own consent to what I'm doing. That seems pretty important. Notice how different it is from the case of John. When I chopped up John, I imagine I don't have John's approval. Consent seems to be present in the case of suicide but not in the case of chopping up John. Maybe that's morally relevant as well. Now, to accept that view is, of course, to say we need to add yet another factor into our deontological theory. We have consequences, we have harm doing, but we also have the factor of consent. And so we need to think about the moral relevance of having the consent of the victim. And once we start thinking about that, I think most of us would be inclined to accept the conclusion that consent can make it acceptable to do to someone what would normally be wrong in the absence of their consent. By the by, you'll notice that that seems to be one of the things that's relevant in thinking about the surgery case, not the organ transplant case but the performing the amputation of the leg, to save the person who would otherwise die. Surely it seems relevant that the patient has given you permission to operate on them. Here's another example that shows you the relevance of consent. It would not be okay--it would not be morally acceptable for me to go up and hit you in the nose. Just like it wouldn't be okay for you to go up and hit me in the face or the gut. And yet, boxing matches are, I suppose, morally acceptable. Why is that? Because from a deontological perspective the answer is, when people are boxing they've agreed to it. I give you permission to hit me, or at least to try to hit me, in exchange for your giving me permission to hit you, or at least to try to hit you. And it's the presence of that consent that makes it permissible for you to harm me, assuming that you're a better boxer than I am, which I'm confident would have to be the case. So, consent makes it legitimate to harm people, even though in the absence of consent it wouldn't be legitimate. All right, if that's right, then bring that thought home to thinking about the case of suicide. Suicide might be wrong, because after all I'm a person, at first glance. But since I'm killing myself, I've given myself permission. I've given myself consent to harm myself. And if consent makes it permissible to do what would normally be forbidden, then consent makes it permissible for me to kill myself. And so, now we're led again to the conclusion that from a more fully developed deontological perspective we ought to say suicide is permissible, at least if we're prepared to throw in this kind of factor of consent and think that it can just wipe out the protections that would otherwise normally be in place. Indeed, if we think that, we're going to be led to a rather bold and extreme conclusion about the morality of suicide. The person has killed himself, so he's clearly consented, and so in every case what he's done is acceptable. Well, maybe that's right--if we're prepared to go that far with the principle of consent. But maybe we shouldn't go that far with the principle of consent. Suppose we're talking after class and you say to me, "Shelly, you've got my permission to kill me." And so I get out my gun and I shoot you to death. It doesn't seem morally acceptable, even though you gave me your permission, especially--Think of even weirder cases. Suppose that you are feeling like you want to killed because you're overcome with guilt because you believe you killed John Smith. But you're crazy. You didn't kill John Smith. John Smith's not even dead. But in your insanity you think you did do it, and so you say, "Shelly, please kill me." And I know that you're insane, but hey, you know, consent's consent, and so I kill you. Well, that clearly isn't acceptable. Or suppose you're playing with your three-year-old nephew. He says, "Oh yeah, I don't really like being alive. Kill me." Well, that clearly doesn't make it acceptable to kill him or her-- well, nephew, it's a him. So, if we start accepting this consent principle, we're led to some pretty implausible conclusions. So, maybe we should throw it out. Maybe we should say, no, consent really doesn't have the kind of power that a minute ago it looked like it did. But I'm inclined to think we shouldn't go that far and throw away the consent principle altogether. Because if we do throw out the consent principle, we're going to find ourselves unable to say some things that I think it's pretty important to us to say. Consider the following example. Suppose that we're in war and we're in the foxhole and a hand grenade has been thrown into the foxhole. And unless something happens quick, the hand grenade is going to blow up and it will kill my five buddies who are near the hand grenade. Unfortunately, because they're playing cards or whatever, they don't see it. But I see it. But I don't have time to warn them. By the time I tell them what's going on, they won't have time to react. Really, it's do nothing, let them get killed but I probably won't be hurt very much, or throw myself on the hand grenade, my body absorbs the blow, saves my buddies, kills me. Imagine what happens is that I throw myself on the hand grenade. I've sacrificed myself for them. I've done something amazing. Few of us would have it within ourselves to do this, but amazingly enough some people do. And we admire and praise these people. They've committed--they've undertaken an incredible act of heroic self-sacrifice-- morally commendable, above and beyond the call of duty we want to say, praiseworthy. But wait a minute, how could it be praiseworthy? The person threw himself on a hand grenade, knowing the result of this was that he was going to die. And so he killed a person, thereby, apparently, violating the deontological right not to have innocent people be killed. Don't talk about "The results are better." Yeah, of course, five buddies saved; the results are better. But that doesn't seem enough to use in our deontological moods. After all, suppose that I see the hand grenade, and so what I do is I take Jones and throw him on the grenade. Well, that's not okay, even though the results are the same. What makes the difference? Why is it morally legitimate for Jones to throw himself on the grenade? The only answer that I can see is, because he agrees to it. He did it to himself; he volunteered, it has his consent. If we throw away the consent principle, we're forced to say what Jones did isn't morally admirable. It's morally appalling, it's morally forbidden. I can't believe that. So, we need a consent principle. But on the other hand, we don't want to go with such a strong consent principle that we say, oh, it's okay to kill crazy people, or kill children, just because they say, "Oh, kill me." So we need something-- a more moderate form of the consent principle. We need to say consent can do its thing, but only under certain conditions. What exactly are the relevant conditions? Well, this is, of course, one more topic open for debate. We might insist that, look, the permission has got to be given freely. It's got to be given knowing what the upshots are going to be. It's got to be given by somebody who is sane, who is rational, who is competent, who's--and that may deal with the child case as well, who is not yet competent to make this sort of decision. There's room for disagreement about what exactly are the relevant conditions to put into a proper version of the consent principle. We might also want to throw in some requirement that the person have good reasons for his giving you permission. That might deal with the case where you just come up to me after class and say, "Kill me." I mean you're not insane. Well, at least you might not be insane. You know what's going to happen. In some sense, you've reached the age of competence, but you don't have any good reasons for it. Maybe that's enough to undermine the force of consent. Well, suppose we've got some kind of modified consent principle. What should we say about suicide then? Well, it seems to me what we're led to is, once again, a modest view about suicide. The mere fact that the person killed themselves won't show that it was morally legitimate because, of course, even though they've given themselves permission, they may not have had, for example, good reason, or they might be insane. But for all that, if we can have cases-- and I take it we can have cases-- where somebody rationally assesses their situation, sees that they're better off dead, thinks the case through, doesn't rush into it, makes an informed and voluntary decision, with good reason behind it-- in a situation like that it seems to me the consent principle might well come into play, in which case consent will trump or nullify the force of the deontological prohibition against harming innocent people. So, suicide will again be acceptable in some cases, though not in all. And that's the conclusion that seems to me to be the right one, whether we accept the utilitarian position or one of these deontological positions. Suicide isn't always legitimate, but it's sometimes legitimate. It still leaves the question, what should we do when we see, when we come across, somebody trying to kill themselves?" And there I think there is good reason to ask yourself, are you confident that the person has satisfied the conditions on the consent principle? Perhaps we should err on the side of caution, and assume that the person may be acting under distress, not thinking clearly, not informed, not altogether competent, not acting for good reasons. But to accept that is not to accept the stronger conclusion that we must never permit somebody to kill themselves. If we become convinced that they have thought it through, that they do have good reason, that they are informed, that they are acting voluntarily, in some such cases it may be legitimate for them to kill themselves, and for us to let them. All right, almost out of time. So, let me shift gears for the very last time, and take a quick look at where we've been. At the start of the semester, I invited you to think hard about the nature of death or the facts about life and death. Most of us try very hard to not think hard about death. It seems to be an unpleasant topic, and we put it out of our mind. We don't think about it, even when there's a sense in which it's staring us in the face. Every single class of this semester, every single day of this semester, you've come into this building and have walked past a cemetery right across the street. How many times did you notice it? How many times did you stop to think about the complete visual reminder that we are on this Earth for a while, and then we're not anymore? Most of us just don't think about it. Well, of course you are, in some sense, the exceptions. You've spent a semester thinking about it, and I'll be largely content if you've taken the opportunity this semester to take a hard look at the things you believe. Whether or not you ended up agreeing with me, about the various claims that I've put forward, is less important than that you've taken the chance to take a hard look at your beliefs and asked yourself not just what you hoped or wished or kind of believed was true, but what you could actually defend. Still, having said that, it would be disingenuous of me to pretend that I don't also hope that you've come around-- if you didn't start out believing what I believe-- that you've come around to believing what I believe. As I pointed out on the first day, most people accept a great deal of this package of beliefs about the nature of life and death, that--They believe we have a soul, that there's something more to us than our bodies. And they believe that because they think, given the existence of a soul, we'll have the possibility of living forever. Immortality is a possibility, and we all hope for and crave the possibility that we will live forever because death is, and must be, horrible. It's so horrible that we try not to think about it. It's so horrible that when we do think about it we're filled with dread, terror and fear. And it's just obvious that that's the only sensible reaction to the facts about life and death. Life is so incredible that under no circumstances could it ever make sense to be glad that it had come to an end. Immortality would be desirable; suicide could never be a reasonable response. Over the course of this semester, I've argued that that package of beliefs, common as it may be, is mistaken, virtually from start to finish. There is no soul, we are just machines. We're not just any old machine; we are amazing machines. We are machines capable of loving, capable of dreaming, capable of being creative, capable of making plans and sharing them with others. We are people. But we're just machines anyway. And when the machine breaks, that's the end. Death is not some big mystery which we can't get our heads around. Death is in some sense no more mysterious than the fact that your lamp can break, or your computer can break, or any other machine will eventually fail. I never meant to claim that it's not regrettable that we die the way we do. As I argued when talking about immortality, better still would be if only we had the prospect of living as long as life still had something left to offer us. As long as life would be good overall, death is bad, and I think for most of us death comes too soon. But having said that, it doesn't follow that immortality would be a good thing. On the contrary, immortality would be a bad thing. The reaction that makes sense in thinking about the facts of death is not to find it as some great mystery too dreadful to think about, too overwhelming. But rather, fear, far from being the rationally appropriate response I think, is an inappropriate response. Although we can be sad that we die too soon, that perhaps should be balanced by the fact of-- the recognition of--just how incredibly lucky we all are to have been alive at all. Yet, at the same time, recognizing that sense of luck and being fortunate doesn't mean that we're always lucky to be remaining alive. For some of us the time will come in which that's no longer true, and when that happens life is not something to be held onto, come what may, under any and all circumstances. The time could come for some of us in which it's time to let go. What I then invited you to do, over the course of the semester, is not only to think for yourself about the facts of life and death, but I invite you all to come to face death without fear and without illusion. Thanks very much. 
